---

title: Frequency synthesizer system and method
abstract: A frequency synthesizing circuit comprising a first mixer configured to receive a first input signal at a first input thereof, a first filter configured to receive an output signal of the first mixer and remove undesired signal frequencies from the output signal of the first mixer, and a feedback loop. The feedback loop includes a second mixer having a first input connected to the output of the first filter and a second input for receiving a second input signal. The second mixer is configured to mix a signal received at the first input with the second input signal. The feedback loop further includes a third mixer having a first input connected to an output of the second mixer and a second input for receiving a third input signal. The third mixer is configured to mix a signal received at the first input with the third input signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531324&OS=09531324&RS=09531324
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 09531324
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150701
---
This application is a divisional application of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 034 087 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 9 112 483 entitled OFFSET REGENERATIVE FREQUENCY DIVIDER filed Sep. 23 2013 the entire contents of which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract N00024 00 C 5139 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to frequency dividers and more specifically to regenerative frequency dividers.

In various electronic applications such as radar and communications systems there is a need to synthesize or generate radio frequency RF signals across a wide range of frequencies. Many existing frequency synthesizing techniques however are limited by the range of obtainable output frequencies and or by excessive noise introduced into the resulting output signals. For example in analog and digital signal processing operations frequency dividers are often implemented to generate an output signal of a frequency f from an input signal of a frequency f where f f n wherein n is an integer. Likewise in a traditional regenerative frequency divider an input signal is mixed with the output of the circuit via a feedback loop. These dividers may achieve very low noise but are limited to outputs of one half the input signal frequency or 1 times the input frequency . In order to obtain frequency divisions greater than two multiple frequency dividers may be utilized. For example these may be arranged in cascade but with increased complexity cost and noise production.

Many applications however require production of low noise frequencies that are not integer multiples of a given input frequency. In these instances conjugate regenerative dividers for example are able to produce fractional division but are complicated to stabilize. Likewise complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS based dividers produce low noise but are limited to input frequencies of about 200 MHz. Injection locked frequency dividers have also been demonstrated at low noise but have known stability issues with high order divisions.

Alternative systems and methods for providing low noise frequency generation at fractional division ratios are desired.

In one embodiment of the present invention a frequency synthesizing circuit is provided. The circuit comprises a first mixer configured to receive a first input signal at a first input thereof a first filter configured to receive an output signal of the first mixer and to remove undesired signal frequencies from the output signal of the first mixer and a feedback loop having an input connected to an output of the first filter and an output connected to a second input of the first mixer. The feedback loop includes a second mixer having a first input connected to the output of the first filter and a second input for receiving a second input signal. The second mixer is configured to mix a signal received at the first input with the second input signal. The feedback loop further includes a third mixer having a first input connected to an output of the second mixer and a second input for receiving a third input signal. The third mixer is configured to mix a signal received at the first input with the third input signal. In one embodiment the frequency of the first input signal is distinct from the frequency of the second input signal.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a frequency synthesizing method is provided. The method includes the steps of generating a first mixed signal by mixing a first input signal with an output of a feedback loop of a regenerative frequency divider. The first mixed signal is filtered for removing undesired frequency signals. A second mixed signal is generated by mixing a signal derived from the filtered first mixed signal with a second input signal within the feedback loop. The second mixed signal is filtered for removing undesired frequency signals. A third mixed signal is generated by mixing a signal derived from the filtered second mixed signal with a third input signal within the feedback loop. The output of the feedback loop is generated by filtering the third mixed signal.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity many other elements found in frequency translation devices including regenerative frequency dividers. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein. The disclosure herein is directed to all such variations and modifications known to those skilled in the art.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that the various embodiments of the invention although different are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Furthermore a particular feature structure or characteristic described herein in connection with one embodiment may be implemented within other embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition it is to be understood that the location or arrangement of individual elements within each disclosed embodiment may be modified without departing from the scope of the invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims appropriately interpreted along with the full range of equivalents to which the claims are entitled. In the drawings like numerals refer to the same or similar functionality throughout several views.

A regenerative frequency divider according to the prior art is shown in . Divider includes a primary signal path and a signal feedback path . In operation an input signal of frequency Fis supplied to a frequency mixer e.g. a diode ring mixer along with the feedback signal from the output of divider via feedback path . In the illustrated divider the resulting output of mixer are the sum and difference frequencies of Fand 1 F. Depending on the desired output in this case F F a frequency blocking or removal device such as a filter e.g. a low pass filter is provided for removing the higher frequency signal components. The resulting signal of frequency Foutput from filter is then amplified via amplifier and output by divider . As set forth above these types of regenerative frequency dividers can be used to generate output frequencies having an integer relationship to a given input frequency i.e. a divide by two relationship .

However the ability to produce low noise frequency translations beyond frequencies having these integer relationships to the input frequency is routinely required despite the difficulties in achieving high quality outputs. Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a solution by introducing frequency translation devices inside feedback loops of regenerative dividers providing the ability to generate various low noise fractional division ratios.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure a frequency synthesizing circuit is provided. The circuit comprises a first mixer for receiving a first input signal and a first removal or blocking device e.g. a filter configured to receive an output of the first mixer and to remove undesired frequencies from the output signal of the first mixer. The circuit further comprises a feedback loop for providing an output of the first filter to an input of the first mixer wherein the first input signal and the output of the first filter are mixed. The feedback loop includes a second mixer arranged therein and configured to receive the output of the first filter and to mix the output of the first filter with a second input or offset signal.

In another embodiment of the present invention a frequency synthesizing method is provided. The method includes the steps of mixing a first input signal with an output of a feedback loop of a regenerative frequency divider to provide a mixed signal that is then filtered to remove or attenuate signal components of undesired frequencies. A second mixing operation is performed within the feedback loop using the output signal of the first mixing operation and a second input or offset signal. An output of this second mixing operation may be filtered prior to being input to the first mixing operation.

Regenerative frequency dividers according to embodiments of the present disclosure may take on numerous forms and include various types of frequency translation devices or combinations thereof integrated into their feedback loops for performing a variety of operations. Referring generally to these operations may include mixing one or more offset signals within the feedback loop as well as performing multiplication and or division operations within the feedback loop not shown . The offset signal or signals may be of the same or different frequencies compared to that of the input signal to the device.

Referring generally to an offset regenerative divider according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is shown which includes a mixing function arranged within the feedback loop of the circuit. Divider includes a first input signal of frequency Fprovided to a first mixer . A portion of the output of first mixer is removed or blocked via a filter which may comprise band pass high pass or low pass properties depending on the desired output frequency. The filtered output of first mixer of frequency of Fmay then be amplified by an amplifier . A second mixer is provided in the feedback loop of divider and receives the output of divider F as well as a second input or offset signal of desired offset frequency F. In one embodiment Fis a frequency which does not have an integer relationship to i.e. is not evenly divisible by frequency Fof the first offset signal input to second mixer . Second mixer may output through a second filter e.g. band pass high pass or low pass filter for passing frequency Fto a second amplifier the output of which is provided as a second input to first mixer . The following formulas describe the relationships between the input output and offset frequencies assuming first and second filters are configured as low pass filters for passing frequencies Fand F Eq. 1 Eq. 2

Referring generally to a dual frequency offset divider according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is shown. Divider comprises features similar to those set forth above with respect to including an input signal of frequency Fprovided to a first mixer a first filter for passing frequency F and a first amplifier . The feedback loop comprises a first mixing stage including a second mixer responsive to the output of amplifier as well as a second input or offset signal having an offset frequency F. A second filter passes frequency Fto a second amplifier . In this embodiment the feedback loop further includes a second mixing stage including a third mixer responsive to a third input or offset signal of frequency F as well as the output of second amplifier . A third filter is provided for passing frequency Fto a third amplifier which outputs to first mixer . This dual mixing arrangement is represented as follows Eq. 4 Eq. 5 Eq. 6

Other embodiments of the present disclosure include regenerative dividers utilizing 400 MHz and 200 MHz offset inputs for generating a 640 MHz output divider and 3200 MHz and 1600 MHz offset inputs for generating a 5120 MHz output divider . is a simplified diagram of an oscillating circuit useful for producing the input signal to regenerative frequency divider of . Specifically a plurality of frequency multipliers are used to produce the 1600 MHz and 3200 MHz input signals to divider .

While the foregoing invention has been described with reference to the above described embodiment various additional modifications and changes can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention. Accordingly all such modifications and changes are considered to be within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and the drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations of variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

