---

title: Intelligent pursuit detection
abstract: Systems and methods may include receiving first motion data corresponding to a first object and receiving second motion data corresponding to a second object. The systems and methods may include determining whether the second object is following the first object based on the first motion data and the second motion data. The systems and methods may include receiving additional information corresponding to the second object. The systems and methods may include determining whether the second object poses a risk to the first object based on the additional information. The systems and methods may include performing processes in response to determining that the second object is following the first object and poses a risk to the first object. Such processes may include providing a notification to a subscribing party. The notification may indicate that the second object is following the first object and poses a risk to the first object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503860&OS=09503860&RS=09503860
owner: CA, Inc.
number: 09503860
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150910
---
The present disclosure relates to threat detection and positional awareness and more specifically to systems and methods for intelligent pursuit detection.

Existing mapping applications permit users to share their locations with one another so that their friends family coworkers and other acquaintances may know where such users are located at any given point in time. This may permit such users to share their experiences with others to passively inform friends and family of their safety to inform supervisors of their location and to make it easier to meet in unfamiliar locations.

Portable devices such as cellular phones tablets smart watches and other wearable devices which are typically carried by a single individual have become ubiquitous. Such devices may include global positioning satellite GPS systems that may enable the devices to track their users positions and transmit position information to a mapping application such as the existing mapping applications described above.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a method may include several processes. In particular the method may include receiving first motion data corresponding to a first object. The method also may include receiving second motion data corresponding to a second object. Further the method may include determining whether the second object is following the first object based on the first motion data and the second motion data. Moreover the method may include receiving additional information corresponding to the second object. Further still the method may include determining whether the second object poses a risk to the first object based on the additional information. In addition the method may include performing processes in response to determining that the second object is following the first object and that the second object poses a risk to the first object. Such processes may include providing a notification to a subscribing party. The notification may indicate that the second object is following the first object and poses a risk to the first object.

Other features and advantages will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art from the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present disclosure may be illustrated and described herein in any of a number of patentable classes or context including any new and useful process machine manufacture or composition of matter or any new and useful improvement thereof. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented entirely in hardware entirely in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. or in a combined software and hardware implementation that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module component or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would comprise the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an appropriate optical fiber with a repeater a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium able to contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take a variety of forms comprising but not limited to electro magnetic optical or a suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be a computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that is able to communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable signal medium may be transmitted using an appropriate medium comprising but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in a combination of one or more programming languages comprising an object oriented programming language such as JAVA SCALA SMALLTALK EIFFEL JADE EMERALD C C VB.NET PYTHON or the like conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language VISUAL BASIC FORTRAN 2003 Perl COBOL 2002 PHP ABAP dynamic programming languages such as PYTHON RUBY and Groovy or other programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider or in a cloud computing environment or offered as a service such as a Software as a Service SaaS .

Aspects of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatuses e.g. systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable instruction execution apparatus create a mechanism for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that when executed may direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions when stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture comprising instructions which when executed cause a computer to implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable instruction execution apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatuses or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

While certain example systems and methods disclosed herein may be described with reference to threat detection systems and methods disclosed herein may be related to any field. Moreover certain examples disclosed herein may be described with respect to nefarious activity and personal safety but systems and methods contemplated by this application may be applied to any other field that may involve movable elements such as manufacturing delivery transportation e.g. air land sea and a plurality of other fields for example.

Systems and methods disclosed herein may provide for personal safety security based on automatic detection of objects while taking into consideration usual roadway traffic density at the location at the given time.

Stalking and following are common precursors and indicators of crime activity. Systems and methods disclosed herein may utilize sensors to detect frequently appearing shapes faces cars and other objects that follow the movements and positions of a protected subject.

Systems and methods disclosed herein may alarm a user about the fact that one or more targets detected by continuously or periodically sensing the environment are following a protected subject. The pursuit may be detected by computing the probability of a target appearing in the field of view or within close proximity of the protected subject. The system may periodically scan surrounding space in the field of view of the protected subject may detect shapes faces vehicles license plates and other objects that match previously identified objects and may compute the probability of the target being in the field of view relative to the randomness of the environment e.g. the entropy of the environment .

Systems and methods disclosed herein may increase personal safety by using wearable sensing devices. Wearable devices are becoming readily available however the use of such devices is still limited mostly to logistics and health applications. Systems and methods disclosed herein may provide a personal physical safety application using wearable sensing technology.

Systems and methods disclosed herein may utilize a Personal Surrounding Awareness System PSAS a GPS Mapping System GPSMS a Trajectory and Speed Tracking System TSTS a Stalking Likelihood Computation System SLCS and a Stalking Alert API SAAPI . The PSAS GPSMS TSTS SLCS and SAAPI may be implemented by one or more system which is described below in more detail.

The PSAS may expand an individual s field of vision beyond the individual s natural periphery to promote safety awareness for example. An example PSAS is set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 8 704 661 which describes a wearable optical relay that is disposed to view an environment outside a user s line of sight and that provides relevant non extraneous information to the user about objects in such environment. The PSAS may be implemented by cameras and or other sensors that may relay visual auditory haptic or other signals to an individual for example.

The GPSMS may provide information about streets close by attractions and other features that might attract pedestrian or vehicular traffic. This information may be used to compute the entropy of an environment e.g. geography as described in more detail below.

The TSTS may be a cloud based service that keeps track of detected objects in respect to trajectory of a protected subject.

The SLCS may generate a score that indicates the likelihood that a detected object is deliberately following or has deliberately followed the protected subject. The SLCS may compute a score based on an entropy metric that may be computed by analyzing the number of possible common destinations and routes to such destinations relative to the location of the protected subject along with detected objects. For example if a protected subject is located on a four lane highway with a relatively small number of ingress egress points then the entropy of the environment would be low. If the protected subject is located in a dense urban area with many roads and possible destinations then entropy of the environment would be high.

The thresholds of probability described above may be used to indicate the level of the protected subject s expectation to be followed. If the expectation of pursuit is greater the threshold of probability should be less. The protected subject also may set up a threshold of probability for automatic alerting. If this threshold is breached the system may issue an alarm such as an automatic 911 call text message and or tweet for example.

The SAAPI may be implemented as a representational state transfer REST system a simple object access protocol SOAP system and or a messaging and or pub sub notification system. The SAAPI may provide a mechanism for triggering automated processes that may be associated with a user s belief that such user is being pursued and or the SLSC s determination of a high probability that the user or other object is being pursued.

Referring now to a network through which devices associated with intelligent pursuit detection processing may intercommunicate now is described.

The network of may comprise one or more clouds which may be public clouds private clouds community clouds or some combination thereof. Each cloud may permit the exchange of information and the provisioning of services among devices and or applications that are connected to such clouds. Such clouds may utilize a wide area network such as the Internet a local area network such as an intranet a cellular network such as a network using CDMA GSM 3G 4G LTE or other protocols a machine to machine network such as a network using the MQTT protocol the Wi Fi Direct protocol the NFC protocol the Blutooth protocol and or another type of machine to machine protocol another type of network or some combination of the aforementioned networks. The network may be a closed private network an open network or some combination thereof and may facilitate wired and or wireless communications of information among devices and or applications connected thereto.

The network may include a plurality of devices which may be physical devices virtual devices e.g. applications running on physical devices that function similarly to one or more physical device or some combination thereof. The devices within the network may include for example one or more of general purpose computing devices specialized computing devices mobile devices e.g. cellular phones tablets laptop computers personal digital assistants smart watches and other wearable devices augmented reality devices wired devices wireless devices passive devices routers switches mainframe devices monitoring devices infrastructure devices servers other devices configured to provide information to and or receive information from one or more stakeholders and software implementations of such.

For example the network may include a plurality of mobile devices which may each include one or more sensors such as an integrated GPS device and or a camera . Such mobile devices may include for example cellular phones tablets laptops and other portable devices. Mobile devices may be powered by a mobile operating system such as Apple Inc. s iOS mobile operating system Google Inc. s Android mobile operating system or Microsoft Corporation s Windows operating system for example.

Moreover the network may include a plurality of transportation devices such as boats buses trucks bicycles motorcycles airplanes trains and cars for example. One or more of cars may be network connected and include one or more sensors such as an integrated or otherwise associated GPS device and in some configurations a camera such as a rear view camera a side view camera and or a dashboard camera for example. The network may further include additional sensors some of which may be stationary and some of which may be mobile that perform one or more monitoring processes. Examples of such sensors may include a network connectable camera e.g. a speed or red light camera a toll booth camera a security or surveillance camera and a mobile camera e.g. a helmet cam a wearable camera .

Devices within the network such as mobile devices cars and other devices may include one or more applications that provide a user interface which may display alerts alarms and or notifications disclosed herein and which may provide one or more options for addressing anomalies e.g. notifying police deactivating a vehicle or placing the vehicle in no drive mode deactivating another device placing restrictions on one or more objects or initiating auditing processes identified in such alerts alarms and or notifications.

The network also may include a plurality of servers that may receive store and or provision data within the network. For example a server store social information about a plurality of individuals e.g. social network profiles criminal history associated groups or individuals such as identification information for neighbors or friends work history hobbies preferred eateries and or other objects e.g. registry of object owners a history of citations provided to automobiles stolen car registries police reports . Some servers may store a history of motion data for various objects e.g. average rates of speed on a particular road typical patterns of object interaction within a geography typical patterns and or routs followed by stalkers or other pursuers . Certain servers may store geographical information such as maps of various geographies arrangements of roads or sidewalks predicted travel times traffic patterns traffic signal locations. Particular servers may store images or videos such as surveillance videos images of cars including license plates that have run red lights neglected to pay tolls or were speeding. Such servers may store many different types of information including information that has not been explicitly described herein for example. The information data stored in servers may be acquired from various sources such as public records databases private records databases and or various sensors and other devices e.g. devices that provide information directly to servers . Mobile devices car mobile camera camera and other devices within the network may access information from one or more server .

The network may include a plurality of clients that may obtain information from servers and other devices within the network. Clients may communicate with access control and or provide information to other devices within the network. Clients may be personal computers other servers mobile devices printers and or any other type of network enabled device. Mobile devices car mobile camera camera and other devices within the network may act as a client in certain configurations.

The network may further include a system that may implement one or more process of intelligent pursuit detection disclosed herein. System may be an independent processing system as shown in or may be integrated with another device within the network such as one or more of devices for example.

Referring to system is now described. System may reside on one or more networks . System may comprise a central processing unit CPU a memory and an input and output I O device . Memory may store computer readable instructions that may instruct system to perform certain processes. In particular memory may store a plurality of application programs and or scripts. When computer readable instructions such as an application program or a script are executed by CPU the computer readable instructions stored in memory may instruct CPU to perform a plurality of functions. Examples of such functions are described below with respect to . One or more of devices may be implemented or controlled by system or another hardware system with similar components.

System may be a server a consumer device a combination of a server and a consumer device or any other device with the ability to collect and process data. System may include a processing system comprising a single processor such as CPU a plurality of processors and or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs for example. In some configurations processing system may be implemented by an integrated device. In other configurations processing system may be implemented by a plurality of distributed systems residing in one or more geographic regions.

I O device may receive one or more of data from cloud data from other devices and sensors connected to system and input from a user and I O device may provide such information to CPU . I O device may transmit data to cloud may transmit data to other devices connected to system and may transmit information to a user e.g. display the information send an e mail make a sound . Further I O device may implement one or more of wireless and wired communication between system and other devices within or external to cloud or other networks.

Referring to a geography through which one or more objects may travel and within which intelligent pursuit detection may be implemented now is described.

Geography also includes an intersection with stoplights and a network enabled camera configured to record images of vehicles driving through the intersection. For example camera may be a read light and or speed camera configured to record an image of a vehicle s license plate number when the vehicle exceeds the speed limit or does not stop for a red light. In come configurations camera may even record an image of every vehicle that passes through the intersection. Camera may associate a timestamp with such images so that the time at which a vehicle was located in the vicinity of the camera may be stored for later analysis. In some configurations camera also may determine a speed and direction of travel for such vehicle and associate such information with the recorded image. In this manner camera may identify a particular vehicle such as a car based on the vehicle s identification number e.g. license plate number and obtain motion data e.g. speed direction location at a particular time corresponding to said vehicle. Moreover camera may in some configurations access a server to obtain the identity of the vehicle s owner using the imaged license plate number and or to determine whether the vehicle has been reported stolen or has received a substantial number of citations. In some configurations geography may include a plurality of cameras such that the movement of vehicles from one location within geography to another location within geography may be tracked. While the foregoing example concerns a camera that primarily monitors cars and other automobiles such a camera may be configured to similarly monitor pedestrians bicyclists and other objects that pass by the camera. Moreover camera may be similarly disposed in another geography such as within a store or shopping center to monitor passersby in a similar fashion for example.

In some configurations devices other than a camera may be used to track the location speed direction and identity of objects passing by e.g. vehicles pedestrians mobile devices . For example Bluetooth transmitters receivers e.g. such as those used in Apple Inc. s iBeacon system Wi Fi transmitters receivers e.g. such as those using triangulation systems strategically placed NFC transmitters receivers cellular transmitters receivers e.g. also using triangulation systems and or a range of other devices may be used in place of or in addition to camera or in place of cameras and which are described in more detail below to capture motion data and identifying information about objects passing by.

As noted above a plurality of cars may be moving within geography . One or more of cars may include one or more of a GPS device which may track the position of that car and a camera which may monitor the surroundings of that car . In particular the GPS device may provide motion data of the car in the form of position information for the car speed of the car and motion direction of the car . Further camera may obtain motion data of vehicles individuals and other objects within a particular distance of car by recording images of such objects and the recorded images may be analyzed to determine the identity ownership of such vehicles individuals and other objects e.g. via license plate numbers information obtained from servers and other identifying information and to ascertain how such objects are moving through the geography. Such motion data may be relative motion data e.g. motion of such objects relative to the car or absolute motion data e.g. relative motion data combined with the GPS information for the car . In some configurations one or more camera may be placed at the rear and or sides of the car to monitor objects directly pursuing the car from behind and or objects indirectly pursuing the car via evasive routes such as routes along parallel streets or alleys. As noted above Bluetooth transmitters receivers Wi Fi transmitters receivers strategically placed NFC transmitters receivers cellular transmitters receivers and or a range of other devices may be used in place of or in addition to camera to capture motion data and or identification information corresponding to other objects in proximity to car for example. Moreover camera may be replaced by and or supplemented with a proximity sensor for example.

As also noted above a plurality of individuals and may be disposed within geography . Individuals such as the individual in car or the pedestrian individual carrying a mobile device may worry about being pursued. Such individuals for example may be carrying valuable goods may have concerns about crime levels may be elderly or frail may be celebrities or public personalities may have received threats or may otherwise have concerns about being followed and or harmed. Individual may be a pursuer of the pedestrian individual with ill intent such as a stalker or a robber for example. Individual may merely be another individual following the same sidewalk as the pedestrian individual . Individuals may merely be other individuals that have stopped for a conversation on the same sidewalk used by the pedestrian individual . Individual may be a pursuer of the individual in car and the individual may currently be taking evasive measures to avoid detection by the individual in car .

As noted above the pedestrian individual may carry a mobile device such as a cellular phone for example. The mobile device may include a GPS device and a camera for example. GPS device and camera may perform functions similar to those of GPS device and camera described above except that GPS device and camera may respectively capture motion data for mobile device and also individual whose motion generally may be coincident with mobile device and other objects within a particular distance from mobile device e.g. individuals and and cars . In some configurations camera may further capture identification information for such other objects within the particular distance from mobile device . In certain configurations camera may be a screen mounted camera that may record images of objects behind individual while individual is viewing mobile device s screen. In some configurations camera may be a rear mounted camera that may record images of objects to the side of or behind individual while individual is holding mobile device to his her head. In further configurations individual may be equipped with a mobile camera that may be selectively mounted on individual s person to more effectively record images of object behind and or to the sides of individual . Mobile camera may be a wearable camera for example which may be placed on individual s backside or sides. Moreover mobile camera may perform functions similar to those of camera described above. As noted above Bluetooth transmitters receivers Wi Fi transmitters receivers strategically placed NFC transmitters receivers cellular transmitters receivers and or a range of other devices may be used in place of or in addition to cameras and or to capture motion data and or identification information corresponding to other objects in proximity to pedestrian individual for example. Moreover cameras and or may be replaced by and or supplemented with a proximity sensor for example.

Consequently one or more of cameras and may capture motion data and or identification information of one or more of cars and or one or more of individuals and for example. As described above one or more of cameras and may by oriented to face behind and or to the side of car and or individual to assist in identifying pursuers that are following such car and or individual . Nevertheless certain evasive pursuers may utilize alternative routes and or actually travel in front of car and or individual in scenarios where such pursuers know car and or individual s travel path with sufficient likelihood e.g. where the geography has a low entropy where car and or individual s likely next pivot point and or destination is known . In such scenarios it may be effective to arrange one or more of cameras and in a forward facing manner so that such camera s may identify whether a potential pursuer is travelling in front of car and or individual .

Geography may be characterized using the concept of entropy of geography also referred to as entropy of the neighborhood . As used herein the term entropy of geography serves as a measure of the number of possible routes for an object within a geographical region. Entropy of geography may gauge an amount of disorder e.g. a number of paths routes within a geographic region for example. For example a geographical region including only a toll road with few exits may have a low entropy of geography for motor vehicle transportation because cars traveling on the toll road will be forced to follow a designated path with few options to deviate from the path. Consequently a pursuer may not need to follow car and or individual closely within a geography having a low entropy as such car and or individual s path may be easily predicted. Thus motion data corresponding to other objects within a geography having a low entropy may be less useful in identifying a pursuer.

Conversely a geographical region such as a city may contain numerous streets that twist wind and interconnect such that it is easy for car and or individual to quickly change its route and avoid a pursuer. Consequently because cars travelling through a city may have many path options such a geographical region including numerous streets that twist wind and interconnect may have a high entropy of geography for motor vehicle transportation . In geographies with a high entropy of geography pursuers must therefore follow car and or individual closely. Thus motion data corresponding to other objects within a geography having a high entropy may be very important in identifying a pursuer.

In some configurations entropy of geography may be used to generally characterize routes available within a geography using all means of transportation motion e.g. by motor vehicle by train by boat by walking by bus . In other configurations each means of transportation motion within a geography may have its own entropy of geography. For example a city may have a high entropy of geography for both walking and driving whereas a rural geography with a toll road surrounded by woods may have a low entropy of geography for driving but a high entropy of geography for walking because there may be many possible foot routes through the surrounding woods. The entropy of a geography may be determined from geographical information available from one or more servers e.g. map information survey data and or derived from information collected by sensors e.g. derived from the images recorded by one or more of cameras and derived from the GPS data received from a plurality of GPS devices such as GPS devices and .

Referring to a process of intelligent pursuit detection now is described. As described above the process of intelligent pursuit detection may be performed by and or controlled by system e.g. via a processing system thereof which may be integrated with and or independent from one or more of mobile device camera car camera server client and other devices within cloud for example. The process of intelligent pursuit detection may help individuals proactively determine whether they are being followed whether such a follower poses a threat and a method for avoiding a threatening follower e.g. losing the follower hiding obtaining assistance from others taking evasive actions alerting the police to detain the follower .

In S system may receive first motion data corresponding to a first object. Returning to the example of pedestrian individual system may obtain e.g. receive GPS data e.g. first motion data corresponding to mobile device and also to the pedestrian individual that is carrying mobile device e.g. mobile device and individual are both examples of a first object in this example configuration . The obtained GPS data may provide or readily allow for determination of the position speed and direction of the first object at a plurality of different times for example. In some configurations the GPS data may be obtained from GPS device . In other configurations the GPS data may be obtained from an information store such as a server that stores GPS data received from GPS device .

In the example with an individual in a car a similar process may occur in S. More particularly system may obtain e.g. receive GPS data e.g. first motion data corresponding to car and also to the individual therein e.g. car and individual are both examples of a first object in this example configuration . The obtained GPS data may provide or readily allow for determination of the position speed and direction of the first object at a plurality of different times for example. In some configurations the GPS data may be obtained from GPS device . In other configurations the GPS data may be obtained from an information store such as a server that stores GPS data received from GPS device .

In S system may receive second motion data corresponding to a second object. Returning to the example of pedestrian individual system may obtain e.g. receive motion data e.g. second motion data corresponding to objects e.g. each such object being an example of a second object within a particular distance e.g. a resolvable distance for the sensor a predefined distance of the sensor e.g. camera camera camera camera supplemental sensors alternative sensors such as the receiver transmitter systems described above . Such motion data may be raw image data received from one or more of cameras for example and may be further processed by system or another processing system to provide the position speed and direction of the second object at a plurality of different times. In some configurations the motion data may be pre processed and may directly provide the position speed and direction of the second object at a plurality of different times. In certain configurations system may receive the second motion data from the sensor. In other configurations system may receive the motion data from an information store such as a server which stores and or pre processes the motion data output by the sensor. In the example with an individual in a car a similar process may occur in S.

In S system may determine the geographic region s e.g. the geography geographies through which one or more of the first object and the second objects have travelled. In some configurations it may be sufficient to determine only the geographic regions through which the individual has travelled without determining the geographic regions through which other objects have travelled as the geographic regions through which the individual has travelled will often control limit the ability of a pursuer to take evasive action. For example system may determine the geography geographies through which the individual has travelled based on the GPS data received from GPS device or GPS device . In some configurations system may determine the geography geographies through which the individual has travelled based on information received from other sensors such as images received from one or more of cameras and .

In S system may receive geographical information about each geography identified in S. For example system may access one or more servers to obtain map data e.g. as the geographic information for each geography identified in S. In some configurations system may determine the geographic information for each geography identified in S information received from other sensors such as images received from one or more of cameras and . In certain configurations this may be crowd sourced data. The geographical information may identify features such as one or more of roadways buildings landmarks waterways sidewalks traffic signals highways toll roads bridges forests farms and other physical aspects of the respective geographies.

In S system may determine the entropy of each geography identified in S based on the geographical information. In some configurations system may determine a generalized entropy of each geography based on a plurality of travel methods e.g. walking motor vehicle transport cycling . In other configurations system may determine a distinct entropy of each geography for each travel method e.g. an entropy of a geography for walking an entropy of a geography for travelling by motor vehicle an entropy of a geography for cycling . As noted above the entropy of a geography may be based on the number of different routes available for travelling through the geography.

In S system may determine whether a second object appears to be following the first object. For example system may determine whether one or more of individuals and and or one or more of cars is following an individual . In particular configurations the determination in S may be based on the amount of correlation between the first motion data of the first object and the second motion data of the second object. For example if there is 100 correlation between the first motion data of the first object and the second motion data of the second object there may be a strong likelihood that the second object is following the first object. Conversely if there is 0 correlation between the first motion data of the first object and the second motion data of the second object there may be a low likelihood that the second object is following the first object. In some instances a predetermined level of correlation may be established as a threshold to determine whether following is occurring. The predetermined level may be based on the behavior of other objects the past behavior of the objects being monitored and or the geography for example.

Further the determination in S may include additional complexity. For example correlated motion data for only a short period of time e.g. 10 seconds may not indicate a high likelihood of being followed in and of itself. Such following behavior may not be notable unless it is systematic and sustained e.g. 15 minutes of correlated motion . Consequently system may require that the first motion data and the second motion data are sufficiently correlated for at least a predetermined period of time and or that such motion data shows at least a predetermined number of instances of correlation within the predetermined period. Moreover in certain configurations system also distinguishes between the second object following the first object and the first object following the second object. For example when the first object is following the second object the first motion data and the second motion data may be substantially correlated but such correlation alone would not be a proper indicator that the second object is following the first object. Accordingly system may further utilize sensor information e.g. orientation information from cameras to distinguish between the first object following the second object e.g. typically acceptable behavior wherein the concerned individual corresponds to the first object and the second object following the first object e.g. worrisome behavior wherein the concerned individual corresponds to the first object .

In some implementations system may analyze the motion data to identify patterns of repeated motions over time. For example individuals may walk along the sidewalk in geography and stop at the same spot for a conversation every day. Such individuals however may repeatedly walk to and stop at the same spot only when pedestrian individual comes into their field of view. Once pedestrian individual walks by and exits the field of vie of individuals individuals may leave the spot and walk away. Consequently while the individuals are not necessarily following pedestrian individual such individuals may be engaged in repeated activity that is highly correlated with the presence of pedestrian individual . Therefore in such configurations system may determine that individuals are following pedestrian individual S YES even though individuals are merely lingering while pedestrian individual walks by.

In other configurations system may determine that a second object is following the first object S YES when the second object is persistently e.g. with at least a particular frequency or duration located near e.g. within a particular distance of the first object. In such configurations system may use the first motion data of the first object and the second motion data of the second object e.g. GPS data to track the relative positions of the first object and the second object over time. Generally in such configurations the longer the period of time that the first object and the second object are within the same proximity to one another the more likely that the system will determine that the second object is following the first object. Nevertheless exceptions to this general rule may exist.

In any event when system determines that the second object is following the first object S YES the process may proceed to S. Conversely when system determines that the second object is not following the first object S NO the process may return to S and receive additional motion data. The process of determining whether the second object is following the first object is described below in more detail with respect to which shows an example process of making such a following determination.

In S system may receive additional information from an external source. For example the additional information may be identity information for the second object such as information about the owner of a car whose license plate number was imaged with one or more of cameras and for example. In some configurations system may query an external database on a server for example to look up owner information associated with an imaged license plate. In certain configurations the additional information may be social information about the second object or the second object s owner master such as a reputational history e.g. a criminal record a listing of citations or tickets a history of fraud ownership of weapons listed on an offender registry other background information identities of friends neighbors coworkers family and or other acquaintances and employment information for example. In some configurations such additional information may be collected for all objects within a particular distance of the first object. Such additional information may be obtained from a plurality of public and or private sources hosted on one or more servers for example.

In certain configurations the additional information may include information identifying one or more patterns of correlated motion that is often associated with e.g. is an indicator of malicious activity e.g. stalking robbery assault theft . Such information may likewise be received from an external server for example and may be based on one or more of existing knowledge in the field data aggregated from one or more components described herein one or more expert systems and or a plurality of other sources.

In some configurations the additional information may include the motion data to a plurality of other objects e.g. other than the first object and the second object in the same geography as within a particular distance of having similar attributes to or otherwise having some relation to one or more of the first and second objects. Such motion data may be received from an external source such as a server or another source such as one or more of the sensors described above e.g. a GPS device one or more of cameras and one or more of the transmitters receivers described above . For clarity such sensors may be considered as sources different from the first object and the second object even if such sensors are integrated or otherwise disposed with the first object and or the second object.

In some configurations. S may be performed prior to the determination in S. In other configurations S may be performed in response to a positive determination S YES in S. Such responsive performance of S may conserve system resources by only collecting the additional information as needed.

In S system may determine whether the second object poses a risk to the first object. More specifically in response to determining that the second object is following the first object system may evaluate the additional information and in some configurations the first and second motion data to determine whether the second object poses a risk to the first object. Such a risk may be associated with physical and or financial harm for example. Less scrupulous and more unsavory individuals and other objects may likely pose a greater risk than upstanding individuals that are well respected and have great reputations. While the determination in S may be somewhat qualitative in nature quantifiable thresholds may be established to determine what combination of additional information signals greater risk and what level of risk is acceptable.

For example if the additional information indicates that the second object is or is associated with an individual such as individual with a criminal history or a history of citation system may determine that the second object likely poses a risk to the first object. Similarly if a social profile associated with the second object and provided as part of the additional information identifies a history of threatening behavior system may determine that the second object likely poses a risk to the first object. Conversely if the additional information indicates that the second object is or is associated with an individual that is a relative of friends with and or a coworker of the first object or an individual associated with the first object system may determine that the second object likely does not pose a risk to the first object. Similarly if the additional information indicates that the second object is or is associated with an individual that does not have a criminal record or a history of citation system may determine that the second object likely does not pose a risk to the first object. Many factors may be considered when making the determination in S such as social relationships reputation the environment the activity and a slew of other factors.

In some configurations system may use the motion data of the first and second objects when determining whether the second object poses a risk to the first object. For example the second object may be rapidly approaching the first object and then backing away when the first object turns around. Such motion may be suggestive of evasive behavior which itself may suggest a malicious intent to conceal the presence of the second object. Consequently system my determine that the second object poses a risk to the first object when one or more of the first motion data and the second motion data indicates suspicious movement patterns in addition to mere following behavior.

In other configurations system may use the time of the determined following when determining whether the second object poses a risk to the first object. For example it may be common for many people to repeatedly commute to work along the same routes on weekday mornings. Consequently if such following only tends to occur during rush hour such following may be innocent. Nevertheless if the first object performs the commute at an unusual or unexpected time e.g. on the weekend in the afternoon and the second object still engages in the following system may determine that the second object is engaging in malicious following and poses a threat to the first object.

In any event when system determines that the second object poses a risk to the first object S YES the process may proceed to S. Conversely when system determines that the second object does not pose a risk to the first object S NO the process may return to S and receive additional motion data. The process of determining whether the second object poses a risk to the first object is described below in more detail with respect to which show example processes of making such a risk determination.

In S system may determine a course of action for the first object to avoid the second object. For example system may retrieve the phone number for the police or even automatically notify the police of the threat posed to the first object. In some configurations system may generate an evasive route that will assist the first object sneak away from the second object. In other configurations system may generate a route that will take the first object through public spaces where it is unlikely that the second object would harm the first object. In certain configurations system may generate a route to a place with help such as a police station or even a gas station. In still other configurations system may generate a message asking if an alarm should be sounded or in the alternative may sound an alarm. In further configurations system may generate a message telling the first object to move hurriedly away e.g. run drive quickly or to seek help. More generally system may access a plurality of internal and or external resources and use such resources to develop one or more strategies for the first object to avoid the risky second object.

In S system may provide the first object with the course of action. For example system may transmit one or more of the above described routes messages and phone numbers to an individual s mobile device and or car which may cause a display on mobile device and or car to display such routes messages and phone numbers to individual or to otherwise notify individual that the police or other help has been contact and or that an alarm has sounded. Moreover system may cause such display s to notify the individual of the risk posed by the second object and provide one or more known pieces of information about the second object e.g. identification information one or more piece of the additional information a current location of the second object an estimated time for the second object to reach the first object . In this manner the first object may be made aware of the risk posed by the second object and of potential courses of action for avoiding the second object. Following S the process may return to S and receive additional motion data.

As an example system may receive motion data regarding pedestrian individual in S and regarding the other individuals and and cars in S. System may determine that the motion of individuals and is sufficiently correlated e.g. meets some threshold correlation criteria with the motion of pedestrian individual and that the motion of individuals and is not sufficiently correlated with the motion of pedestrian individual . Consequently system may determine that individuals and are following pedestrian individual S YES and that individuals and are not following pedestrian individual S NO . Thereafter system may obtain additional information about individuals and from a server or other source e.g. sensors associated with individuals and other sensors other databases in S. The additional information may indicate that individuals have no criminal records and are actual pedestrian individual s neighbors. The additional information also may indicate that geography is pedestrian individual s neighborhood. Moreover the additional information may indicate that individual is a hardened criminal with a grudge against pedestrian individual e.g. individual has made negative social network posts about pedestrian individual pedestrian individual has reported individual to the police before . Consequently system may determine that individuals do not pose a risk to pedestrian individual S NO but that individual poses a risk to pedestrian individual S YES .

In response to determining that individual poses a risk to pedestrian individual S YES system may retrieve the phone number for the police and generate a safe route through highly visible public space in S which may help keep pedestrian individual safe from individual . Thereafter system may provide the police phone number with an alert of the threat to pedestrian individual s mobile device . The alert may further cause mobile device to display the suggested safe route. In some configurations the alert may control a display on mobile device to show a real time map with the locations of the mobile device and the malicious individual highlighted so that the pedestrian individual may know the relative location of the malicious individual in real time and take evasive action.

In some cases the alert may also provide pedestrian individual with an option to inform system that a false positive determination has been made. For example pedestrian individual may indicate that individual is actually a friend or that individual is an unrelated delivery person for example. In this way system may learn about false positives and revise its internal model to be more accurate e.g. adjust the predetermined thresholds and or criteria for following and or risk determinations .

In certain configurations system also may broadcast an alert regarding the presence of the malicious individual to other mobile devices in the area belonging to other individual so that the other individuals may help the pedestrian individual and or take measures to avoid and or subdue the malicious individual .

Referring to a process of determining whether an object is being followed by another object now is described. The process of may utilize the entropy of each geography determined in S. For purposes of illustration the process of is described with respect to motor vehicles and a single method of transportation e.g. driving . Nevertheless such process may similarly be performed with regard to other methods of transportation e.g. walking cycling boating public transit and with regard to a combination of transportation methods e.g. a combined entropy of the geography .

In S system may identify portions of the first and second motion data that are associated with a particular geography. For example system may identify all motion data for a first car e.g. the car with individual therein that occurred in geography . System may also identify all motion data for a second car that occurred while first car was in geography . Thereafter system may determine the correlation between the identified motion data for the first car and the identified motion data for the second car . Such correlation may be associated with the geography .

In S system may use the entropy of the geography which was determined in S to establish an entropy based weighting factor. If the entropy of geography is higher e.g. many interconnected routes exist in the geography system may establish a heavier e.g. greater entropy based weighting factor. If the entropy of geography is lower e.g. few interconnected routes exist in the geography system may establish a lighter e.g. less entropy based weighting factor.

In S system may apply the weighting factor determined in S to the correlation associated with the geography . For example if the entropy of geography was higher system may ultimately assign a heavier weight to the correlation associated with the geography . If the entropy of geography was lower system may ultimately assign a lighter weight to the correlation associated with the geography .

More specifically if the first car and the second car were travelling on a toll road with no exits the motion data for the first and second cars would be highly correlated. Nevertheless because such a geography would have low entropy the weighting factor assigned to such correlation would be very low. In this manner system may reduce the likelihood that low entropy geographies will skew the determination that a second object is following the first object and creating false positives. Moreover this approach also reduces the likelihood that evasive maneuvers taken by a pursuer in such a geography e.g. where the pursuer is not very concerned about losing track of the first object will skew the determination in the other way and create a false negative. More simply the foregoing approach leverages the knowledge that motion in low entropy geographies is much less important to a following determination than motion in higher entropy geographies.

In S system may repeat processes S S and S a plurality of times for a plurality of different geographies through which the first and or second object travelled. In this manner system may generate a plurality of weighted correlation values.

In S system may combine the weighted correlation values for the different geographies. Such combination may be a mathematical operation that results in a resultant correlation value. Thereafter system may proceed to S and compare the resultant correlation value with a predetermined level of correlation set as a threshold. If system determines that the resultant correlation exceeds the threshold S YES system may proceed to S and determine that the second object is following the first object e.g. a determination that the second car is following the first car . If system determines that the resultant correlation does not exceed the threshold S NO system may proceed to S and determine that the second object is not following the first object e.g. a determination that the second car is not following the first car .

While shows an example method of determining whether a second object is following a first object such example is merely one of a plurality of possible ways to make the following determination disclosed herein. Therefore it should be appreciated that the following determination should is not limited to the method of .

Referring to a process of determining risk now is described. The process of may be performed as a response to determining that a second object is following the first object. By accurately determining whether the second object poses a risk to the first object system may prevent false positives and reduce waste associated with implementing strategies to avoid second objects that are not threats to the first object.

In S system may determine whether relative patterns of motion and or patterns of correlation between the first object and the second object substantially match patterns known to correlate to threats. For example as described above with respect to known patterns of evasive motion may be highly correlated with risky threatening behavior. Consequently system may compare the first and second motion data with such known patterns and determine an amount of correlation between the motion of the second object or the motion of the second object relative to the first object and such patterns of evasive motion. If the motion of the second object substantially matches one or more patterns of evasive action e.g. the correlation exceeds some predetermined threshold system may make a positive determination in S S YES and proceed to S. If the motion of the second object does not substantially match one or more patterns of evasive action e.g. the correlation does not exceed some predetermined threshold system may make a negative determination in S S No and proceed to S.

In S system may use motion data of other objects collected from one or more servers and or one or more sensors such as the sensors disclosed herein for example to determine baseline levels of behavior for objects within particular geographies and or at particular times. For example erratic motions toward or away from other objects may be entirely common behavior in some geographies or at certain times e.g. during rush hour in a city . Moreover being in close proximity with another object may be completely aberrant behavior in some geographies or at certain times e.g. in the country at night . Thus system may establish baseline behaviors for different geographies at different times and compare the behavior e.g. based on the first and second motion data of the second object with such baselines. If the behavior of the second objects deviates from the established baseline by more than a predetermined amount system may determine that the behavior of the second object is inconsistent with the behavior of other objects in the vicinity of the first object and make a negative determination in S S NO . After system makes a negative determination in S S NO the process may proceed to S. If the behavior of the second objects deviates from the established baseline by less than the predetermined amount system may determine that the behavior of the second object is consistent with the behavior of other objects in the vicinity of the first object and make a positive determination in S S YES . After system makes a positive determination in S S YES the process may proceed to S.

S and S may be performed independently of one another or together in any order. In some configurations a positive determination in both S and S may be required to proceed to S and determine that the second object is likely a risk to the first object. In certain configurations further risk criteria may be evaluated and in some such configurations still further risk criteria may need to be evaluated positively to proceed to S and determine that the second object is likely a risk to the first object.

In S system may determine that the second object is likely not a risk to the first object. In S system may determine that the second object likely is a risk to the first object.

Referring to another process of determining risk now is described. The process of identifies the presence of a risky object in the vicinity of the first object but does not necessarily establish a definitive link between the second object that is following the first object and the risky object. More specifically the process of utilizes the following intuition if a risky object is in the vicinity of the first object and the second object is following the first object then the second object is likely the risky object. In this manner the process of relies on the assumption that a follower is likely more risky than a non follower and therefore likely corresponds to an object identified as risky.

In S system receives reputational history corresponding to each object within a particular distance of the first object. For example one or more of the sensors disclosed herein may identify the license plate numbers of all cars within a particular distance of the first object. System may then use the license plate numbers to identify the owner s of each car and may subsequently acquire the criminal record of each such owner from a server . S may be part of S for example and such received information may be included in the additional information. In some configurations the criminal records may be anonymized.

In S system may analyze the reputational history e.g. criminal records received in S and determine whether one or more object within the particular distance of the first object has a negative reputation. For example if the criminal record for an owner of a car indicates a recent conviction for assault system may determine that one or more object within the particular distance of the first object has a negative reputation S YES . If the reputational histories received in S do not identify any negative reputations e.g. none of the owners of cars within the particular distance have a criminal record system may determine that no objects within the particular distance of the first object have a negative reputation S NO . In some configurations older records of negative behavior may carry less weight in the risk determination process.

If system makes a positive determination S YES in S the process may proceed to S. Conversely if system makes a negative determination S NO in S the process may proceed to S.

In S system may determine that the second object which was determined to be following the first object in S is the object with the negative reputation. As described above system effectively applies the human knowledge that following another object is often a malicious activity which further suggests that a follower has a higher likelihood of having a negative reputation. Consequently the negative reputation is associated with the follower without directly confirming that the follower actually has the negative reputation.

In S system may determine that the second object is likely a risk to the first object because the second object was associated with the negative reputation in S. Consequently the determination in S is reliant on the assumption made in S and avoids expending additional resources to determine the actual identity and reputation of the second object.

In S system may determine that the second object is likely not a risk to the first object. Thus if no negative reputations exist in the vicinity of the first object system may assume that the second object which is following the first object does not pose a risk to the first object.

In some configurations system may revise the internal models used for a following determination in response to determining that the second object is likely not a risk. More specifically if system determines that a second object is following the first object but thereafter determines that no malicious objects are in the vicinity of the first object system may assume that the following determination was a false positive and may adjust the following model accordingly. For example system may change a threshold time a threshold distance and or a threshold motion correlation used to make a determination whether an object is following another object. In this manner system may engage in machine learning for example.

While show example methods of determining the risk of a second object following the first object such examples are merely a few of a plurality of possible ways to make the risk determination disclosed herein. Therefore it should be appreciated that the risk determination is not limited to the methods of .

The flowcharts and diagrams in illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various aspects of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations may be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to comprise the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to comprise any disclosed structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. For example this disclosure comprises possible combinations of the various elements and features disclosed herein and the particular elements and features presented in the claims and disclosed above may be combined with each other in other ways within the scope of the application such that the application should be recognized as also directed to other embodiments comprising other possible combinations. The aspects of the disclosure herein were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

