---

title: Determining an indoor/outdoor classification for a call
abstract: A device may be configured to obtain metric information relating to an operating environment. The metric information may describe a signal strength or a signal quality associated with one or more calls placed in the operating environment. The device may be configured to obtain a threshold for the metric information. The device may be configured to determine indoor/outdoor classification information that identifies whether the one or more calls are classified as an indoor call or an outdoor call or an unclassified call based on whether the metric information satisfies the threshold. The device may be configured to determine geolocation information identifying one or more geographical locations associated with the one or more calls. The device may be configured to provide the indoor/outdoor classification information and the geolocation information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584966&OS=09584966&RS=09584966
owner: Viavi Solutions UK Limited
number: 09584966
owner_city: Berkshire
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20150930
---
A mobile device may place a call e.g. a voice call a video call a Voice over IP VoIP call a Voice over LTE VoLTE call a data call a web browsing session a file transfer protocol FTP session a file upload download etc. via a base station of a mobile network. The mobile network e.g. a network resource of the mobile network may collect metric information e.g. a reference signal received power RSRP a received signal code power RSCP a received signal level RxLev etc. pertaining to signal strength and or signal quality at the mobile device and or the base station. Based on the metric information and information relating to an area where the mobile device is located as the mobile device places the call a device may classify the call as being placed indoors e.g. within the confines of a building in an indoor environment or being placed outdoors e.g. outside the confines of a building in an outdoor environment .

According to some possible implementations a device may include one or more processors configured to obtain metric information relating to an operating environment. The metric information may describe a signal strength or a signal quality associated with one or more calls placed in the operating environment. The one or more processors may be configured to obtain a threshold for the metric information. The one or more processors may be configured to determine indoor outdoor classification information that identifies whether the one or more calls are classified as an indoor call or an outdoor call based on whether the metric information satisfies the threshold. The one or more processors may be configured to determine geolocation information identifying one or more geographical locations associated with the one or more calls. The one or more processors may be configured to provide the indoor outdoor classification information and the geolocation information.

According to some possible implementations a non transitory computer readable medium may store one or more instructions that when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to obtain metric information. The metric information may identify a signal strength or a signal quality of one or more calls. The one or more instructions when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to obtain a threshold for the one or more calls. The one or more instructions when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to determine indoor outdoor classification information that identifies whether the one or more calls are classified as indoor calls or outdoor calls based on whether the metric information satisfies the threshold. The one or more instructions when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to determine geolocation information identifying a geographical location associated with the one or more calls. The one or more instructions when executed by one or more processors may cause the one or more processors to provide the indoor outdoor classification information and the geolocation information.

According to some possible implementations a method may include obtaining by a device metric information for one or more calls associated with an area. The method may include determining by the device a threshold associated with the area. The method may include determining by the device indoor outdoor classification information that identifies whether the one or more calls are classified as indoor calls or outdoor calls based on whether the metric information satisfies the threshold. The method may include determining by the device geolocation information identifying one or more geographical locations associated with the one or more calls. The method may include providing by the device the indoor outdoor classification information and the geolocation information for processing or storage.

The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

A mobile device may place a call via a mobile network e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network a Long Term Evolution LTE network etc. . A device may collect metric information relating to channel information for the call such as a signal strength and or signal quality of a signal associated with the call a quality measurement for an area in which the call is placed e.g. a quality measurement for a cell bin and or sector of the mobile network a quality measurement for a WiFi network in range of the mobile device etc. information relating to a device to device connection between the mobile device and another mobile device and or other associated metrics. Based on the metric information the call may be classified as being placed indoors or outdoors. For example a call that is associated with metric information that does not satisfy a metric threshold e.g. that indicates low signal strength or low signal quality may be classified as being placed indoors and another call that is associated with metric information that satisfies the metric threshold e.g. that indicates high signal strength or high signal quality may be classified as being placed outdoors.

Classifying whether the call is placed indoors or outdoors may be resource intensive for a device that performs the classification. Furthermore the mobile network may route a large quantity of calls so performing a post hoc analysis of the large quantity of calls may be impractical. Even further the classification of the calls may be more accurate when performed based on more recent information. For example when the metric threshold is determined based on more recent call data the metric threshold may provide more accurate classifications of subsequent call data.

Implementations described herein permit a geolocator system to determine indoor outdoor classifications for calls as the geolocator system determines other geolocation information e.g. a geographical location the mobile device that places the call a determination of whether the mobile device is in a moving vehicle etc. . Further implementations described herein permit the geolocator system or another device to queue classified call data for storage which reduces impact of the classification operation on processing and storage speed. Based on the classified call data a network operator may improve performance of the network. For example if problematic calls in a particular area are typically placed indoors the network operator may deploy additional microcells femtocells or the like in the indoor areas associated with the problematic calls and or may tune existing microcells femtocells. As another example if problematic calls in a particular area are typically placed outdoors the network operator may deploy another macrocell for the outdoor area and or may tune existing macrocells.

As further shown an operations support system OSS may obtain the metric information. For example the network resource may obtain call trace information that describes the calls placed by the mobile devices in the particular area. In such cases the call trace information may include the metric information for the calls placed in the particular area.

As shown in a geolocator system may obtain the metric information for the calls placed in the particular area. As further shown based on the metric information the geolocator system may geolocate the mobile devices that placed the calls. For example the geolocator system may compare signal strengths from different base stations in the particular area may compare receipt times of signals from the mobile devices for different base stations in the particular area may obtain geolocation information from the mobile devices or the like.

As further shown the geolocator system may obtain a metric threshold for the particular area that is identified by the geolocation information e.g. area . The metric threshold may be determined by a measurement processor device based on past metric information and past indoor outdoor classification information for calls placed in the particular area as described in more detail below.

As shown the geolocator system may compare the metric information to the metric threshold to determine whether the calls placed in the particular area were placed indoors or outdoors. Based on whether the metric information for each call satisfies the metric threshold the geolocator system may classify a call associated with the metric information as an indoor call or an outdoor call. In some implementations the geolocator system may classify the call based on other information e.g. information indicating that the call was placed in a moving vehicle global positioning system GPS information information relating to a device to device link information relating to a relay link information relating to a wireless access point in range of the mobile device during the call etc. .

As shown the geolocator system may provide output information for the calls placed by the mobile devices in the particular area. As shown the output information may include information identifying the particular area geolocation information for the mobile devices e.g. a latitude longitude measurement an x y offset from a reference point etc. information indicating whether the call was placed in a moving vehicle mobility information an indoor outdoor classification for a call or the like. As further shown the geolocator system may provide the geolocation information to a queue producer for a queueing system e.g. an Apache Kafka queuing system an ActiveMQ queueing system etc. .

In this way the geolocator system determines an indoor outdoor classification for a call based on metric information and a metric threshold relating to the area in which the call is placed. Further the geolocator system determines the indoor outdoor classification as the geolocator system determines geolocation information for the call which reduces processor and or storage requirements for determining the indoor outdoor classification.

Geolocator system may include one or more devices capable of receiving generating storing processing and or providing information such as information described herein. For example geolocator system may include one or more computing devices such as one or more server devices desktop computers workstation computers virtual machines VMs provided in a cloud computing environment or similar devices. In some implementations geolocator system may be utilized by an entity that manages and or operates one or more portions of environment such as for example a telecommunication service provider a television service provider an Internet service provider or the like.

Measurement processor device may include one or more devices capable of receiving generating storing processing and or providing information such as information described herein. For example measurement processor device may include one or more computing devices such as one or more server devices desktop computers workstation computers virtual machines VMs provided in a cloud computing environment or similar devices. In some implementations measurement processor device may be utilized by an entity that manages and or operates one or more portions of environment such as for example a telecommunication service provider a television service provider an Internet service provider or the like.

Base station may include one or more devices capable of transferring traffic such as audio video text and or other traffic destined for and or received from mobile device . In some implementations base station may include an eNB associated with an LTE network that receives traffic from and or sends traffic to network . Additionally or alternatively one or more base stations may be associated with a RAN that is not associated with the LTE network. Base station may send traffic to and or receive traffic from mobile device via an air interface. In some implementations base station may include a small cell base station such as a base station of a microcell a picocell and or a femtocell. In some implementations base station may communicate with another base station of mobile network regarding measurement information network performance information or the like.

Mobile device may include one or more devices capable of communicating with base station and or a network e.g. mobile network network etc. . For example mobile device may include a wireless communication device a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a smart phone a smart meter a vehicle a vending machine a laptop computer a tablet computer a personal gaming system and or a similar device. Mobile device may send traffic to and or receive traffic from network e.g. via base station .

OSS may include one or more devices that manage mobile network . For example OSS may perform network inventory operations service provisioning operations network configuration operations fault management operations or the like.

Mobile network may include a mobile communications network such as a 3G mobile network a 4G mobile network a 5G mobile network a heterogeneous network a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM mobile network and or a combination of these or other types of networks. In some implementations mobile network may correspond to an evolved packet system EPS that includes OSS a radio access network e.g. referred to as a long term evolution LTE network a wireless core network e.g. referred to as an evolved packet core EPC network an Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS network and a packet data network PDN . The LTE network may include a base station eNB . The EPC network may include a mobility management entity MME a serving gateway SGW a policy and charging rules function PCRF a PDN gateway PGW a base station controller BSC a radio network controller RNC an operations and maintenance centre OMC a network management system NMS and or a network management center NMC . The IMS network may include a home subscriber server HSS a proxy call session control function P CSCF an interrogating call session control function I CSCF and a serving call session control function S CSCF .

In some implementations mobile network may include one or more network resources such as for example the eNB the MME the SGW the PCRF the PGW the HSS the P CSCF the I CSCF the S CSCF or the like.

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a mobile network a public land mobile network PLMN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network a cloud computing network a private network and or a combination of these or other types of networks. In some implementations network may include one or more device to device wireless networks where communication may occur through direct communication between devices under the control of network or independently. In some implementations direct device to device links may comprise one or more hops. Such direct device to device links may be used in a cooperative manner together with point to point and or point to multi point links mediated by network .

The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in are provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. Additionally or alternatively a set of devices e.g. one or more devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of devices of environment .

Bus may include a component that permits communication among the components of device . Processor is implemented in hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software. Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU an accelerated processing unit APU etc. a microprocessor and or any processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions. In some implementations processor may include one or more processors capable of being programmed to perform a function. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage device e.g. a flash memory a magnetic memory an optical memory etc. that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Storage component may store information and or software related to the operation and use of device . For example storage component may include a hard disk e.g. a magnetic disk an optical disk a magneto optic disk a solid state disk etc. a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a cartridge a magnetic tape and or another type of computer readable medium along with a corresponding drive.

Input component may include a component that permits device to receive information such as via user input e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch a microphone etc. . Additionally or alternatively input component may include a sensor for sensing information e.g. a global positioning system GPS component an accelerometer a gyroscope an actuator etc. . Output component may include a component that provides output information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component e.g. a transceiver a separate receiver and transmitter etc. that enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface may permit device to receive information from another device and or provide information to another device. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a Wi Fi interface a cellular network interface or the like.

Device may perform one or more processes described herein. Device may perform these processes in response to processor executing software instructions stored by a computer readable medium such as memory and or storage component . A computer readable medium is defined herein as a non transitory memory device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory and or storage component from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory and or storage component may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number and arrangement of components shown in are provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively a set of components e.g. one or more components of device may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of components of device .

Geolocator may receive metric information relating to calls placed by mobile devices . Based on the metric information and based on a metric threshold determined by measurement processor device geolocator may classify the calls based on whether the calls are placed indoors or outdoors. Geolocator may provide geolocation information identifying a geographical location for a call an indication of whether the call was placed in a moving vehicle an indoor outdoor classification of the call or the like. Geolocator may obtain the metric threshold from data storage component in some implementations.

Queue producer may receive information to be stored and may provide the information for storage e.g. to data storage component to measurement processor device etc. . In some implementations queue producer may include a Kafka producer for an Apache Kafka queueing system or a similar type of queue producer for a different queueing system. Queue producer may receive metric information geolocation information indoor outdoor classification information call data information or the like from geolocator . Queue producer may provide the information to data storage component e.g. based on a request from a queue consumer that writes to data storage component based on availability of storage space for data storage component based on an instruction from geolocator system etc. .

Data storage component may receive store and or provide information e.g. metric information geolocation information indoor outdoor classification information call data information etc. . In some implementations data storage component may store information in memory local to geolocator system . Additionally or alternatively data storage component may store information in memory local to measurement processor device or in memory remote from geolocator system .

The number and arrangement of functional components shown in are provided as an example. In practice geolocator system may include additional functional components fewer functional components different functional components or differently arranged functional components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively a set of functional components e.g. one or more functional components of geolocator system may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of functional components of geolocator system .

As shown in process may include obtaining metric information for one or more calls in an area block . For example geolocator system may obtain metric information for one or more calls in an area. The area may include for example a cell of mobile network a sector that is served by a particular base station a bin e.g. a subdivision of a sector a geographic region of a particular size or the like. The one or more calls may include a voice call a video call a VoIP call a VoLTE call a call segment or the like.

The metric information may relate to a channel on which a call is placed and or an operating environment in which the call is placed. For example the metric information may include information relating to a transmit power level associated with mobile device a downlink path loss between base station and mobile device a downlink received signal code power RSCP associated with mobile device a downlink received energy per chip Ec for mobile device a downlink noise power density NO for mobile device a received signal reference quality RSRQ for mobile device a power headroom identifier for mobile device a channel quality indication CQI a sub band CQI information according to an E UTRA standard e.g. LTE . LTE . etc. or the like. Additionally or alternatively the metric information may include an uplink received signal strength indicator RSSI associated with base station an uplink signal to noise ratio SNR for information received by base station a signal to interference plus noise SINR ratio a downlink propagation loss for base station a received total wideband power RTWP or the like.

In some implementations the metric information may include information relating to a signal quality of a device to device link between mobile devices an availability of a device to device link a signal quality of a wireless access signal e.g. a WiFi signal a Bluetooth signal etc. an availability of a wireless access signal an availability of a relay and or repeater a signal strength of a relay and or repeater a signal quality of a relay and or repeater a measurement relating to another radio access technology RAT a measurement relating to an available channel frequency within a particular RAT or the like.

In some implementations geolocator system may obtain the metric information from OSS or from network resource . For example mobile devices may provide metric information to base stations . The base stations may provide the metric information to OSS and OSS may process e.g. sort parse etc. the metric information. For example OSS may divide the metric information based on areas corresponding to the metric information based on mobile devices with which the metric information is associated or the like.

In some implementations geolocator system may obtain the metric information from base station . For example base station may be associated with an application programming interface that permits geolocator system to obtain metric information from base station . In this way geolocator system conserves processor and storage resources of OSS by obtaining the metric information from base station . In some implementations geolocator system may obtain the metric information from mobile device . In this way geolocator system conserves processor and storage resources of base station and OSS .

As further shown in process may include obtaining a metric threshold based on which to determine whether the one or more calls are indoor calls or outdoor calls block . For example geolocator system may obtain a metric threshold. Geolocator system may use the metric threshold to determine whether each call of the one or more calls is an indoor call or an outdoor call as described in more detail in connection with block below. Geolocator system may obtain the metric threshold from data storage component which may receive the metric threshold from measurement processor device . Measurement processor device may determine the metric threshold based on past metric information and geolocation information for a particular area as described in more detail in connection with below.

In some implementations geolocator system may obtain the metric threshold based on information identifying the area. For example geolocator may obtain metric information for the area and may query data storage component for a metric threshold pertaining to the area e.g. based on a cell global identity CGI an enhanced cell global identity E CGI a location area code LAC a latitude longitude of the area etc. .

As further shown in process may include determining geolocation information for the one or more calls block . For example geolocator system may determine geolocation information for the one or more calls. The geolocation information may identify estimated geographical locations of mobile devices that participated in the one or more calls mobility information identifying whether mobile devices that participated in the one or more calls were stationary or in motion at a threshold speed one or more cells where mobile devices that participated in the one or more calls were located an uncertainty in an estimated geographical location of mobile devices that participated in the one or more calls or the like.

In some implementations geolocator system may determine the geolocation information based on information provided by mobile device . For example geolocator system may determine the geolocation information based on a latitude longitude obtained by mobile device e.g. based on a GPS component of mobile device based on a local area network with which mobile device is connected based on a location input by a user or the like. Additionally or alternatively geolocator system may determine the geolocation information based on information provided by mobile network . For example geolocator system may determine the geolocation information by triangulating a location of mobile device from signal strengths of signals received by multiple base stations from times that the multiple base stations received the signals or the like.

As further shown in process may include determining an indoor outdoor classification for the one or more calls based on the metric information the geolocation information and or the metric threshold block . For example geolocator system may determine an indoor outdoor classification for the one or more calls. Geolocator system may determine the indoor outdoor classification based on the metric information the geolocation information and or the metric threshold. For example geolocator system may determine the indoor outdoor classification by comparing a metric value for a particular call to a metric threshold for the area in which the particular call was placed. When the metric value satisfies the metric threshold geolocator system may classify the particular call as occurring outside e.g. outside of any building in the area . When the metric value does not satisfy the metric threshold geolocator system may classify the particular call as occurring inside e.g. inside of a building in the area .

As an example assume that geolocator system obtains an RSRP value of 60 decibel meters dBm from mobile device in an area. Assume further that geolocator system obtains a metric threshold for the area of 70 dBm. The metric threshold may be based on RSRP values from mobile devices in the area. In this example geolocator system may classify the call as an outdoor call based on the RSRP value of 60 dBm being greater than the metric threshold of 70 dBm. Now assume that the metric threshold for the area is 50 dBm. In this example as changed geolocator system may classify the call as an indoor call.

In some implementations geolocator system may obtain multiple metric thresholds for a particular area. For example measurement processor device may determine multiple metric thresholds corresponding to different types of metric values for a particular area and geolocator system may obtain the multiple metric thresholds. Geolocator system may obtain metric information of the different types included in the multiple metric thresholds and may determine the indoor outdoor classification information based on the multiple metric thresholds. For example geolocator system may compare metric values for each of the multiple metric thresholds to the respective metric thresholds and may determine a result based on the comparisons e.g. may average the results of the comparisons may determine a weighted average of the results of the comparisons based on relative weights of the metric thresholds etc. .

As an example assume that geolocator system obtains an RSRP value of 85 dBm a SNR value of 37 dB and a CQI value of 18 from mobile device for a call in a particular area. Assume further that geolocator system obtains a metric threshold RSRP value of 90 dB a metric threshold SNR value of 40 dB and a metric threshold CQI value of 20. In this example geolocator system may compare the RSRP value the SNR value and the CQI value to the metric thresholds. Here the RSRP value and the CQI value indicate that the call is an outdoor call and the SNR value indicates that the call is an indoor call. Geolocator system may determine the indoor outdoor classification information by selecting the classification indicated by a majority of the metric values i.e. the classification of the call as an outdoor call . In some implementations geolocator system may perform a weighted average of the classifications in a situation where one or more of the metric values are assigned a higher weight than others of the metric values. In this way geolocator system determines indoor outdoor classification information based on multiple types of metric values which improves accuracy of the classification and versatility of geolocator system .

In some implementations geolocator system may determine the indoor outdoor classification based on information from one or more areas that neighbor a particular area. For example assume that geolocator system is determining indoor outdoor classification information for calls placed in a particular cell. In that case geolocator system may use determine the indoor outdoor classification for the calls based on indoor outdoor classification information metric information a metric threshold or the like for calls placed in cells that neighbor the particular cell. In this way geolocator system determines indoor outdoor classification information based on information regarding neighboring areas which improves accuracy of the indoor outdoor classification information.

In some implementations geolocator system may determine the indoor outdoor classification based on the geolocation information. For example when the geolocation information for a particular call indicates that the particular call was placed in a moving vehicle geolocator system may classify the call as occurring outdoors based on the assumption that a moving vehicle is outside any nearby buildings. In this way geolocator system conserves time and processor resources that would otherwise be consumed to perform the comparison of the metric threshold to the metric information.

As another example when the geolocation information for a particular call unambiguously identifies a location inside a building with sufficient accuracy to ensure that the particular call was placed inside the building e.g. such that a margin of error for the geolocation information is entirely within the confines of the building geolocator system may classify the call as occurring indoors.

In some implementations geolocator system may use geolocation information to supplement a classification of a call. For example when the comparison of the metric threshold to the metric information does not conclusively indicate whether the call was placed or received indoors or outdoors geolocator system may use the geolocation information to determine a classification. For example if the geolocation information identifies a circle that mobile device is likely to be within geolocator system may determine the classification based on whether part or all of the circle falls within a building e.g. based on a center point of the circle based on a majority of the circle etc. .

In some implementations geolocator system may classify a call based on a device to device link between a mobile device that placed the call and another mobile device . For example assume that a first mobile device places a call and assume that the first mobile device is associated with a device to device link with a second mobile device . If geolocator system determines that the second mobile device is indoors e.g. based on geolocation information based on an indoor outdoor classification for the second mobile device based on a velocity of the second mobile device etc. geolocator system may classify the call as an indoor call. As another example geolocator system may determine a relative velocity of the first mobile device in relation to the second mobile device and may classify the call as an indoor call or an outdoor call based on the relative velocity.

In some implementations geolocator system may classify a call based on an indoor outdoor classification of a device to which mobile device is connected. For example if mobile device that placed a call is connected with a device e.g. base station a relay a repeater mobile device a wireless access point etc. that is located indoors geolocator system may determine that mobile device is likely to be located indoors. Geolocator system may classify the call as an indoor call accordingly.

In some implementations geolocator system may classify a call as unclassifiable with regard to whether the call was placed indoors or outdoors. For example in a situation where geolocator system does not receive metric information for the call geolocator system may classify the call as unclassifiable. As another example in a situation where metric information for a call is inconclusive with regard to whether a call was placed indoors or outdoors e.g. when a first metric indicates that the call was placed indoors and a second metric indicates that the call was placed outdoors etc. geolocator system may classify the call as unclassifiable.

As further shown in process may include providing indoor outdoor classification information geolocation information metric information and or information identifying the area block . For example geolocator system may provide indoor outdoor classification information geolocation information metric information and or information identifying the area in which the one or more calls were placed. In some implementations geolocator of geolocator system may provide the indoor outdoor classification information the geolocation information the metric information and or the information identifying the particular area to queue producer .

In some implementations geolocator system may provide the indoor outdoor classification information concurrently with the geolocation information. For example geolocator system may provide the indoor outdoor classification information and the geolocation information as part of the same data transmission or collection of data transmissions as part of the same message or collection of messages as part of the same output as part of the same string as part of the same array or the like.

Queue producer may store the information e.g. in a buffer such as a short term memory cache or the like and may provide the information to be stored by data storage component . Data storage component may store the indoor outdoor classification information the geolocation information the metric information and or the information identifying the particular area. In this way geolocator system determines indoor outdoor classification information as geolocator system determines geolocation information which conserves time and processor resources that may otherwise be used to determine the indoor outdoor classification information after providing the geolocation information and or the metric information for storage.

In some implementations geolocator system may provide the indoor outdoor classification information mobility information geolocation information and or metric information to measurement processor device . Measurement processor device may use the indoor outdoor classification information geolocation information and or metric information to determine a metric threshold based on which to determine future indoor outdoor classification information as described in more detail in connection with below.

In some implementations geolocator system may determine configuration actions to perform to cause one or more base stations to be adjusted based on the indoor outdoor classification information the geolocation information and or the metric information. For example geolocator system may determine one or more configuration actions to be performed e.g. by base station with regard to an uplink to update a power level to update a cell geometry to update a signal modulation coding scheme or the like. The configuration action may include for example modifying transmitted power levels neighbor cell relation tables antenna electrical tilts antenna mechanical tilts antenna pointing direction angles e.g. elevation tilt and or azimuth handover thresholds or the like. In some implementations geolocator system may recommend deactivating one or more base stations and or activating one or more base stations . In this way geolocator system may determine configuration actions to perform with regard to one or more base stations based on the indoor outdoor classification information and thereby improve mobile network performance.

In some implementations geolocator system may determine configuration activities to perform with regard to mobile device . For example based on the indoor outdoor classification of a call placed by mobile device geolocator system or another device e.g. OSS network resource etc. may cause mobile device to increase or decrease a transmit power level increase or decrease a metric reporting threshold e.g. a threshold value of a metric at which mobile device reports the value of the metric to mobile network or another device increase or decrease a handover threshold increase or decrease an inter radio access technology inter RAT threshold switch from a first radio access technology to a second radio access technology switch from a first channel to a second channel connect to a particular base station or the like. In this way geolocator system improves network performance by causing reconfiguration of mobile device .

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in process may include obtaining metric information and or geolocation information for one or more areas block . For example measurement processor device may obtain metric information and or geolocation information for one or more areas. In some implementations measurement processor device may obtain the metric information and or geolocation information from geolocator system e.g. data storage component of geolocator system etc. . In some implementations measurement processor device may obtain the metric information and or geolocation information to determine the metric threshold periodically e.g. based on a time schedule such as every fifteen minutes once per hour once per day once per week etc. .

As further shown in process may include determining a metric threshold for the one or more areas block . For example measurement processor device may determine a metric threshold for the one or more areas. Measurement processor device may determine the metric threshold based on the metric information the geolocation information and or the indoor outdoor classification information. The metric threshold may define a metric value based on which to determine an indoor outdoor classification. For example the metric threshold may define a particular RSRP value a particular RSCP value a particular RxLev value or the like. In some implementations measurement processor device may determine multiple metric thresholds corresponding to multiple different types of metrics.

Measurement processor device may determine the metric threshold based on a theoretical metric value for the particular area. For example measurement processor device may use a path loss model e.g. a model that predicts a signal strength degradation based on a distance between base station and mobile device for a type of environment associated with the particular area e.g. urban rural highway etc. for call signals to determine the theoretical metric value. In some implementations measurement processor device may use the theoretical metric value as the metric threshold.

In some implementations measurement processor device may adjust the metric measurement value to determine an adjusted threshold. For example measurement processor device may adjust the theoretical metric value based on a measurement taken by a technician at the particular area e.g. RxLev measurements RSRP measurements RSCP measurements or the like based on an expected deviation from the conditions contemplated by the path loss model e.g. for mobile devices on a busy road as compared to a quiet road with other conditions of the path loss model unchanged etc. based on comparing information identifying whether one or more calls were placed in an indoor environment to indoor outdoor classification information for the one or more calls or the like.

In some implementations measurement processor device may determine a metric threshold based on a past metric threshold. For example measurement processor device may store past metric thresholds for a period of time and may determine a current metric threshold based on some of or all of the past metric thresholds. Measurement processor device may determine the current metric threshold based on an average of the past metric thresholds based on a weighted average of the past metric thresholds based on a value of a most recent metric threshold based on an analogous metric threshold e.g. for a corresponding day of the week a corresponding quantity of mobile devices in the area etc. or the like.

As further shown in process may include storing and or providing the metric threshold in association with information identifying the one or more areas block . For example measurement processor device may store and or provide the metric threshold in association with information identifying the one or more areas. In some implementations measurement processor device may cause geolocator system e.g. data storage component of geolocator system to store the metric threshold in association with information identifying the one or more areas. In this way measurement processor device permits geolocator system to obtain the metric threshold by querying data storage component which conserves processor resources of measurement processor device that may otherwise be used to provide the metric threshold to geolocator system .

In some implementations measurement processor device may remove an existing metric threshold from usage. For example measurement processor device may store e.g. provide for storage information identifying a time when a metric threshold was determined. When the metric threshold reaches an age threshold e.g. one hour old one day old one week old etc. measurement processor device may cause geolocator system to stop using the metric threshold. For example measurement processor device may cause geolocator system to delete the metric threshold may determine and provide a new metric threshold for geolocator system to use or the like. In this way measurement processor device updates the metric threshold based on an age of the metric threshold which improves accuracy of indoor outdoor classification information and reduces time and processor resources required to determine and or provide the metric threshold.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in and by reference number OSS may provide to geolocator system call data for a particular area e.g. area and metric information relating to the call data. As further shown OSS may provide the call data and metric information at a particular interval e.g. every fifteen minutes . As shown by reference number geolocator may obtain a metric threshold for the particular area from data storage component . Assume that data storage component stores the metric threshold based on receiving the metric threshold from measurement processor device e.g. via queue producer as described in more detail in connection with .

As shown by reference number geolocator may provide geolocation information indoor outdoor classification information the call data and the metric information hereinafter referred to as information to queue producer . As further shown queue producer may provide information to data storage component . For example queue producer may provide information to a queue consumer associated with data storage component . In some implementations queue producer may provide information based on a write speed of data storage component . For example the queue consumer associated with data storage component may request the information as a write speed of data storage component permits data storage component to store the information.

As shown in in some implementations geolocator may determine the indoor outdoor classification information based on a particular interval. Here geolocator obtains the metric threshold and provides information to data storage component e.g. via queue producer every fifteen minutes. As shown in some implementations measurement processor device may determine the metric threshold at a different interval than the interval for the indoor outdoor classification information. Here the interval for determining the metric threshold is once per day.

As shown by reference number measurement processor device obtains the geolocation information the call data and the metric information once per day. Assume that measurement processor device determines the metric threshold based on the geolocation information the call data and or the metric information. As shown by reference number measurement processor device provides the metric threshold for storage on data storage component once per day. In this way measurement processor device updates a metric threshold less frequently than geolocator system receives call data and determines indoor outdoor classification information based on the metric threshold and the call data which conserves processor resources of measurement processor device and or geolocator system .

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

Implementations described herein permit a geolocator system to classify calls as indoor outdoor as the geolocator system determines other geolocation information e.g. a latitude longitude of the mobile device that participates in the call a determination of whether the mobile device is moving in a vehicle etc. . Further implementations described herein permit the geolocator system or another device to queue classified call data for storage which reduces impact of the classification operation on processing and storage speed. Based on the classified call data a network operator may improve performance of the network.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

As used herein the term component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware and or a combination of hardware and software.

Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As used herein satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold more than the threshold higher than the threshold greater than or equal to the threshold less than the threshold fewer than the threshold lower than the threshold less than or equal to the threshold equal to the threshold etc.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods described herein may be implemented in different forms of hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described herein without reference to specific software code it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Furthermore as used herein the term set is intended to include one or more items e.g. related items unrelated items a combination of related items and unrelated items etc. and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Also as used herein the terms has have having or the like are intended to be open ended terms. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

