---

title: Bi-directional recoil containment and double strike prevention system
abstract: An active soft recoil control system that provides a bi-directional recoil containment and double strike prevention, which improves recoil force management, reduces the potential for “short” rounds, results in a more compact and lighter weight weapon, and increases the uniform performance of the heavy weapon at temperature extremes and steep cants. Furthermore, the present system provides for a mechanism that enables safer firing pin retraction and reduces the potential for unintentionally striking the primer and initiating the round during misfire operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09546840&OS=09546840&RS=09546840
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09546840
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150114
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates in general to the field of weapons. Specifically this invention relates to an active soft recoil control system that provides a bi directional recoil system and double strike prevention mechanism which improves recoil force management reduces the potential for short rounds results in a more compact and lighter weight weapon and increases the uniform performance of the heavy weapon at temperature extremes and steep cants. More specifically the present invention provides for a mechanism that enables safer firing pin retraction and reduces the potential for unintentionally striking the primer and initiating the round during misfire operations.

In a soft recoil weapon system a recoiling mass generally refers to the components that move in response to the firing energy and may encompass for example a breech or a ramming mechanism recoil cylinders recoil springs and firing mechanism. The rearward impulse of firing the weapon is partially cancelled by the forward momentum of the recoiling mass at the time of firing.

The recoiling mass is normally held out of battery by a latch mechanism against a series of compression springs. When the latch mechanism is released the recoiling mass is accelerated forward by the compression springs. The pressure created by the ignition of the propellant gases will launch the projectile forward and will launch the recoiling mass rearward against the force created by the compression springs.

When designing a soft recoil system a balance is sought between the forward momentum of the recoil system and the firing impulse to ensure that the round fires and the weapon relatches while minimizing recoil forces. Since the weapon must perform under a variety of conditions including variations in ambient temperatures and propellant performance as well as weapon orientations quadrant elevations and platform cants slopes it becomes necessary to compensate for these variations in order to ensure latching and to minimize recoil loads.

Conventionally hydro pneumatic recoil systems are utilized on large caliber weapons to accomplish this task while some small caliber systems utilize ring springs.

The need to maintain relatively low recoiling loads so that the weapons can be mounted onto light mobile platforms is further complicated by other factors. These factors include for example ignition delays the ability to react to abnormally high impulses the ability to perform at greater temperature extremes and the ability to perform at greater weapon cant.

Ignition delays may in extreme cases defeat the advantages of soft recoil. For instance by the time the mortar cartridge ignites the forward momentum of the recoiling mass is reduced to zero. In this case the recoil forces increase significantly making the weapon system less practical for light mobile platforms. Certain conventional weapons have addressed this problem by allowing a portion of the combustion gases to vent past the breech seal thereby reducing the rearward momentum. However this arrangement may reduce the muzzle velocity of the projectile.

Weapons must also be designed to withstand the largest expected chamber pressure for safe operation under the most extreme operating conditions. This pressure known as the PMP permissible individual maximum pressure may be typically as high as 50 greater than ambient temperature firing pressures. Statistically these conditions may arise 3 times per 10 000 rounds fired but result in greatly increased recoil forces. The traditional method of addressing this concern is to either increase the recoil distance to keep the forces to an acceptable level or to design larger more durable components.

Additionally mobile platforms must be able to engage a variety of targets under various environmental extremes with increased quadrant elevation ranges and be able to fire at a variety of platform orientations and cants. These factors tend to require reducing the forward momentum of the recoiling parts in order to guarantee latching which in turn results in higher recoiling forces.

Conventional soft recoil weapon systems are faced with the problem of actively controlling the recoil velocity to compensate for atypical or extreme firing conditions such as firing at temperature extremes firing on severe cants or when firing results in a late ignition. Variations in the conditions of the soft recoil systems can result in system malfunction or even failure.

The prominent issue with these conditions is that soft recoil systems are dependent upon timing and load balances. More specifically situational firing conditions can cause the following recoil extremes 

While the foregoing conventional methods provided a certain level of control to the soft recoil weapon systems there still remains a need for a more efficient active soft recoil control system that provides a bi directional recoil containment double strike prevention and firing pin retraction.

The present invention addresses the foregoing concerns and presents a new active soft recoil control system that provides a bi directional recoil containment and double strike prevention system which improves recoil force management reduces the potential for short rounds results in a more compact and lighter weight weapon. Furthermore the present invention provides for a mechanism that enables safer firing pin retraction and reduces the potential for unintentionally striking the primer and initiating the round during misfire operations.

The bi directional recoil containment and double strike prevention system permits the weapon to perform uniformly over ambient temperature extremes and steep cants achieving loads low enough to allow firing while mounted on light vehicle. It permits the firing pin to be safely removed during a misfire condition and for inspection purposes. It automatically retracts the firing pin after the recoil system forward travel stops to provide safer misfire resolution. It also provides energy absorption of both firing and latching loads to reduce reaction forces.

More specifically as the recoiling mass is moving forward a firing cam and a safeing cam travel along their respective stationary cam paths by means of rollers. The cam paths control the motion of the firing cam and the safeing cam during the forward and subsequent backward motion of the recoiling mass. The motion of the safeing cam prevents the firing pin from protruding until the recoiling mass has moved to a position where pin protrusion and subsequent mortar cartridge ignition is desirable. When the recoiling mass has reached the desirable firing position the safeing cam will rotate out of the way allowing the firing cam to independently rotate permitting the firing pin to protrude thereby causing ignition of the round.

In the event of a misfire in which the round does not ignite as expected the recoiling mass will subsequently translate further forward than during normal cartridge ignition. In this event the firing cam will rotate back allowing the safeing cam to pull the firing pin to its retracted position. This is a significant safety improvement over prior fielded systems. First it guarantees that the firing pin is safely retracted preventing an inadvertent ignition. Second when firing at high quadrant elevation it protects the weapon from experiencing high recoil forces after forward motion of the recoil system has stopped as a result of the round dropping back onto the firing pin and initiating.

Another aspect of the present invention is the incorporation of a trim brake mechanism or recoil brake. The trim brake mechanism is an energy absorption mechanism that controls the forward and rearward velocities of the recoiling mass regardless of the firing conditions. If the forward velocity were higher than normal due perhaps to firing with the platform facing down a hill the trim brake mechanism senses the velocity deviation resulting from such incline and retards it to an acceptable level. If on the other hand the rearward velocity is too high due to PMP pressure low forward velocity or an ignition delay the trim brake mechanism can retard it effectively absorbing the recoil energy.

The trim brake mechanism can be used both in a reactive and predictive fashion. For example if a cant and quadrant elevation combination are known to cause increased forward velocity a preplanned trim braking amount can be applied. Associatively if an increased velocity is detected an estimated trim brake amount can be applied to negate the effect.

The incorporation of the trim brake mechanism makes it possible to eliminate the need to vent propellant gases or to incorporate bulky structures to withstand higher recoil forces.

The trim brake mechanism is mounted onto the weapon cradle and interfaces with the recoil mechanism by means of a straight gear rack. The translational motion of the recoil system during firing imparts rotational motion to the trim brake. A solenoid controls the amount of force applied to the trim brake mechanism thereby controlling the recoil velocity.

Similar numerals refer to similar elements in the drawings. It should be understood that the sizes of the different components in the figures are not necessarily in exact proportion or to scale and are shown for visual clarity and for the purpose of explanation.

With reference to they illustrate an exemplary automated weapon that is provided with an active soft recoil control system according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention. In this example the automated weapon includes an ammunition feeding mechanism a gun tube and a recoiling mass that translates back and forth within a firing chamber .

While the ammunition feeding mechanism is shown as including four rounds and it should be clear that the ammunition feeding mechanism can be provided with a different number of rounds wherein each round i.e. may be respectively stored in a storage cell i.e. as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 596 422 titled Mortar Retention System For Automated Weapons which is concurrently filed with the present application and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The general operation of the automated weapon will now be described in connection with . shows the first round being advanced in line with the gun tube and the recoiling mass being cocked and latched. shows the recoiling mass unlatched and ramming the first round forward along the arrow A causing the first round to be fired through the gun tube . shows the first round exiting the gun tube resulting in a soft recoil effect wherein the reaction forces ensuing from the firing of the first round cause the recoiling mass to move back along the arrow B and to latch. It should be noted that the firing pin ignites the primer while the recoil is in motion which is contrary to conventional recoil systems. illustrates the recoiling mass latched with the ammunition feeding mechanism indexed to the next round .

The recoil mass is normally held out of battery by a known or available latch mechanism not shown against a series of known or available compression springs not shown . When the latch mechanism is released the recoiling mass including the bi directional recoil mechanism is accelerated forward by the compression springs.

When designing the soft recoil system of the automated weapon a balance is sought between the forward momentum of the recoiling mass and the firing impulse to ensure that the round fires and that the weapon relatches while minimizing recoil forces. Since the weapon may perform under a variety of conditions including variations in ambient temperatures and propellant performance as well as weapon orientations quadrant elevations and platform cants and because if latching does not occur the weapon must be brought back into latch by a secondary charging mechanism and will result in reduced rate of fire it is necessary to incorporate bi directional recoil mechanism to compensate for these variations in order to ensure latching and to minimize the recoil loads.

Typically hydro pneumatic recoil systems are utilized on large caliber weapons to accomplish this task while some small caliber systems utilize ring springs. The present invention utilizes ring springs i.e. that are arranged in a novel manner so that they absorb energy bi directionally that is both in the forward and rearward directions.

With reference to as the recoiling mass including the bi directional recoil mechanism moves rearward along the arrow C the piston contacts the stationary weapon cradle not shown thereby compressing the energy absorbing ring springs inside the recoil piston .

With reference to After absorbing much but not all of the rearward momentum the ring springs propel the recoiling mass forward along the arrow D against the latch mechanism . The counter recoil piston contacts the latch mechanism subsequently compressing the ring springs from the opposite direction thereby absorbing the forward momentum and significantly reducing the forces experienced by the Latch mechanism .

The recoil state of and the counter recoil state of of this cycle oscillate thereby dampening the recoil and counter recoil energy until all residual energy has been absorbed and the piston is returned to the free state of .

While the recoil mass has been described as comprising four pistons two of which are bi directional recoil mechanism cylinders it should be understood that a different number of pistons may be selected depending on the intended application for the force mitigation. In addition while in this exemplary embodiment the bi directional recoil mechanism is illustrated as including two similar pistons as comprising the bidirectional dampening feature as described in connection with while the remaining two pistons are not provided with such feature it should be understood that exemplary design has been provided for the sake of explanation and a different number of pistons may be provided with the bidirectional dampening feature.

The need to maintain relatively low recoiling loads enables the weapon in military applications and other loads in commercial applications to be mounted onto light mobile platforms. However other factors still need to considered for further improving the present invention. These factors include without limitation ignition delays the ability to react to abnormally high impulses the ability to perform at greater temperature extremes and the ability to perform at greater weapon cant.

Ignition delays may in extreme cases defeat the advantages of soft recoil. As an example by the time the mortar cartridge ignites the forward momentum of the recoiling mass is reduced to zero. In this case the recoil forces increase significantly making the weapon less practical for light mobile platforms. Prior weapons have addressed this problem by allowing the combustion gases to vent past the breech seal thereby reducing the rearward momentum. However this arrangement may under certain circumstances reduce the muzzle velocity of the projectile resulting in the projectile falling unacceptably short of its intended target and possibly endangering friendly troops or civilians in the vicinity.

To address the ignition delays and other related concerns the present invention provides a novel double strike prevention system illustrated in .

In general the double strike prevention system enables safer and automatic retraction of the firing pin and reduces the potential for unintentionally striking a primer shown in dashed lines in and unintentional initiation of the round during misfire operations. More specifically the pin retraction mechanism is designed to perform at least two main functions.

The first function is to render the firing pin easily accessible and removable in order to introduce an added degree of safety. This function is useful for transport misfire procedure maintenance and in general to render the weapon safer to operate because of the inability of the firing pin to strike the primer .

The second function is the automatic self retraction feature of the firing pin according to which the firing pin automatically retracts within the firing pin assembly and thus becomes unable to initiate the primer .

An exemplary situation in which the firing pin of a conventional weapon presents a danger of double striking the round is where the round is fired at a steep elevation e.g. around 80 degrees above horizontal. In the event that the firing pin does not ignite the propellant and the round travels upward not ignited within the gun tube the firing pin remains extended from the firing pin assembly. As the round falls back under gravity it is bound to strike the extended firing pin . The danger emanates from the fact that the forward velocity of the breech significantly dissipates causing the round to exit the gun tube while sending the breech rearward at higher velocities than normal. In general the rearward velocity of the breech is the difference between its forward velocity prior to igniting the round and the velocity obtained with no soft recoil effect in traditional recoil systems.

Essentially the firing pin of the present invention automatically starts to extend from the recoil mass after the round enters the gun tube . Upon completion of the firing pin striking the round the firing pin automatically starts to retract within the recoil mass .

Considering now the double strike prevention system in more detail in connection with it forms part of the rammer . illustrates the pin retraction mechanism as including a cam profile that regulates the operation of a firing cam and a safeing cam by means of a firing cam path and a safeing cam path respectively. The firing cam rocker employs a firing cam roller to roll along the firing cam path . Similarly the safeing cam rocker employs a safeing cam roller to roll along the safeing cam path .

The pin retraction mechanism is disposed at the rear section of the recoil mass . It is held by a rear bracket and forms part of the rammer .

To further explain the details of the operation of the double strike prevention system the operations of the double strike prevention system and the firing pin assembly will now be described in connection with the following sets of drawings and respectively.

Accordingly the safeing cam roller reaches a low profile section of the safeing cam path and the firing cam roller reaches a high profile section of the firing cam path . At this stage the firing pin safety is removed and the firing pin starts to protrude from the rammer . The contact between the firing cam path and the firing cam roller causes the firing cam rocker to rotate clockwise. This rotation creates contact pressure on the firing pin guide causing it to translate axially toward the gun tube . The fining pin assembly is contained within the firing pin guide allowing for co axial translation.

Accordingly the safeing cam roller travels along the low profile section of the safing cam path and the firing cam roller travels along the high profile of the firing cam path . At this stage the firing pin is fully extended from the firing pin assembly and striking the primer . The contact between the safeing cam path and the safeing cam roller causes the safeing cam to rotate clockwise. This rotation creates contact pressure on the firing pin guide causing it to translate axially toward the gun tube . Under normal operating conditions the ignition of the propellant in the round will create enough force to stop the recoil mass and reverse its direction prior to entering into the fourth stage.

Accordingly the safeing cam rocker reaches and continues to travel on a second high profile section of the safeing cam path and the firing cam rocker reaches and continues to travels on a second low profile section of the firing cam path . In this state the firing pin is fully retracted back inside the rammer preventing the firing pin from striking the primer . The contact between the safeing cam roller and the safeing cam path causes the safeing cam rocker to rotate clockwise. This create contact pressure between the firing pin guide and the safeing cam rocker which causes the firing pin guide to translate axially entrailing the firing pin assembly away from the gun muzzle.

During the recoil operation of the weapon the above four stages are reversed so that they follow the order Stages and then .

In summary as the recoiling mass is moving forward the firing cam rocker and the safeing cam rocker travel along their respective stationary cam paths by means of rollers . The cam paths control the motion of the firing cam rocker and the safeing cam rocker during the forward and subsequent backward motion of the recoiling mass . The motion of the safeing cam rocker prevents the firing pin from protruding until the recoiling mass has moved to a position where pin protrusion and subsequent mortar cartridge ignition is desirable. When the recoiling mass has reached the desirable firing position the safeing cam rocker will rotate out of the way allowing the firing cam rocker to independently rotate permitting the firing pin to protrude thereby causing ignition of the round .

In the event of a misfire in which the round does not ignite as expected the recoiling mass will subsequently translate further forward than during normal cartridge ignition. In this event the firing cam rocker will rotate back allowing the safeing cam rocker to pull the firing pin to its retracted position. This is a significant safety improvement over prior fielded systems. First it guarantees that the firing pin is safely retracted preventing an inadvertent ignition. Second when firing at high quadrant elevation it protects the weapon from experiencing high recoil forces after forward motion of the recoil system has stopped as a result of the round dropping back onto the firing pin and initiating.

The pressure created by the ignition of the propellant gases will launch the round forward and will launch the recoiling mass rearward against the force created by the compression springs. During this rearward motion the safeing cam rocker and firing cam rocker will return to their initial positions. The recoiling mass is returned to its initial out of battery position and the latch mechanism will capture the recoiling mass preventing it from moving forward and setting the weapon to fire a subsequent round i.e. 12.

With reference to the pin retraction mechanism of the present invention additionally incorporates a firing pin locking assembly that enables the manual removal of the firing pin for safety maintenance and inspection purposes. The firing pin retraction mechanism is generally disposed within the rear bracket in proximity to the firing cam path and the safeing cam path .

The firing pin locking assembly generally includes a cam assembly that is housed within a firing pin guide and a firing pin twist lock that has a hollow cylindrical shape. The cam assembly can be locked to the housing by means of two quarter turn threads . Two similar externally protruding quarter turn threads are disposed diametrically opposed to each other on the firing pin twist lock of the cam assembly . The two threads are capable of rotating 90 degrees to engage two corresponding slots in the firing pin guide for retaining the firing pin locking assembly within the housing .

The cam assembly further includes two detente balls that engage two diametrically opposed cavities in the wall of the housing . A spring tension pin inserts vertically through two diametrically opposed holes formed through the wall of the firing pin twist lock and into the hole in the extension bar so that when the firing pin locking assembly is assembled the spring tension pin holds the entire assembly together.

A firing pin removal or anti rotation cam provides a caming surface for the detente balls and provides a convenient means to access to the firing pin locking assembly by means of a square socket port . The firing pin removal cam is located within the firing pin twist lock and rotates with the cam assembly relative to the firing pin guide .

When it is desired to remove the firing pin a square shaped socket is inserted in the socket port and rotated ninety degrees counterclockwise. The axial force on the firing pin removal cam compresses a compression spring which in turn acts against an extension bar . The compression of the spring causes the firing pin removal cam to translate axial towards the muzzle and the two detente balls to roll along the profile of the firing pin removal cam .

When the firing pin removal cam is pushed forward against the preload of the compression spring the two detente balls are permitted to fall inward thereby permitting the rotation of the firing pin locking assembly relative to the firing pin guide . A compression spring attached to firing pin assembly forces axial motion rearward to allow an operator to grab the firing pin locking assembly and to remove it. The removal of the firing mechanism is typically required when transporting the weapon for inspection of the firing pin or for safety purposes in the event of a misfire.

At the inflection point the rammer velocity starts to decrease very quickly almost instantaneously and it passes through the zero velocity point at which the rammer is said to have made an instantaneous stop. The rammer then gains acceleration rearward acquiring a negative velocity until it reaches a point of maximum speed . The rammer velocity then decreases in absolute value until it stops at the zero position and then continues to move in the forward direction. The bi directional recoil mechanism then travels back and forth from the recoil position to the counter recoil position slowly damping out any residual energy until the recoil mass comes to a complete stop at around 0.55 seconds. At this time the second round will be advanced in line with the gun tube and ready for firing.

The positively sloping segment relates to the second stage of the firing cycle wherein the firing pin starts to extend outwardly at the recoiling mass position of 612.5 mm until the firing pin extends fully beyond the forward face of the rammer at .

The horizontal segment relates to the third stage of the firing cycle wherein the firing pin remains extended until the completion of the propellant ignition stage.

The negatively sloping segment relates to the fourth stage of the firing cycle wherein the firing pin begins to retract and continues retracting until it is completely retracted beneath the face of the rammer at . This stage only occurs in the event of a failed propellant ignition or an attempt to fire without a round inline with the rammer .

Weapons must also be designed to withstand the largest expected chamber pressure for safe operation under the most extreme operating conditions. This pressure known as the PMP permissible individual maximum pressure may be typically as high as 50 greater than ambient temperature firing pressures. Statistically these conditions may arise 3 times per 10 000 rounds fired but result in greatly increased recoil forces. The traditional method of addressing this concern is to either increase the recoil distance to keep the forces to an acceptable level or to design larger more durable components. Neither solution is entirely acceptable for light mobile platforms.

Additionally mobile platforms must be able to engage a variety of targets under various environmental extremes with increased quadrant elevation ranges and be able to fire at a variety of platform orientations and cants. These factors tend to require reducing the forward momentum of the recoiling parts in order to guarantee latching which in turn results in higher recoiling forces.

Another aspect of the present invention is the incorporation of a trim brake mechanism or recoil brake as stated herein. The trim brake mechanism is added to address the problems associated with extreme operation conditions of the weapon . Briefly the trim brake mechanism is an energy absorption mechanism that controls the forward and rearward velocities of the recoiling mass regardless of the firing conditions. If the forward velocity were higher than normal due perhaps to firing with the platform facing down a hill the trim brake mechanism senses the velocity deviation resulting from such incline and retards it to an acceptable level. If on the other hand the rearward velocity is too high due to PMP pressure low forward velocity or an ignition delay the trim brake mechanism can retard it effectively absorbing the recoil energy.

The trim brake mechanism can be used both in a reactive and predictive fashion. For example if a cant and quadrant elevation combination are known to cause increased forward velocity a preplanned trim braking amount can be applied. Associatively if an increased velocity is detected an estimated trim brake amount can be applied to negate the effect.

The incorporation of the trim brake mechanism makes it possible to eliminate the need to vent propellant gases or to incorporate bulky structures to withstand higher recoil forces.

The trim brake mechanism is mounted onto the weapon cradle and interfaces with the recoil mechanism by means of a straight gear rack . The translational motion of the recoil system during firing imparts rotational motion to the trim brake. A solenoid not shown controls the amount of force applied to the trim brake mechanism thereby controlling the recoil velocity.

It is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein with reference to device mechanism system or element orientation such as for example terms like front back up down top bottom forward rearward and the like are only used to simplify the description of the present invention and do not alone indicate or imply that the mechanism or element referred to must have a particular orientation. In addition terms such as first second and third are used herein and in the appended claims for purposes of description and are not intended to indicate or imply relative importance or significance.

It is also to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangements of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. Other modifications may be made to the present design without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The present invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways such as for example in military and commercial applications.

