---

title: Device independent message distribution platform
abstract: An example system for device-independent point to multipoint communication is configured to receive a message addressed to one or more destination users, the message type being, for example, Short Message Service (SMS), Instant Messaging (IM), E-mail, web form input, or Application Program Interface (API) function call. The system also is configured to determine information about the destination users, the information comprising preferred devices and interfaces for receiving messages, the information further including message receiving preferences. The system applies rules to the message based on destination user information to determine the message endpoints, the message endpoints being, for example, Short Message Service (SMS), Instant Messaging (IM), E-mail, web page output, or Application Program Interface (API) function call. The system translates the message based on the destination user information and message endpoints and transmits the message to each endpoint of the message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09577966&OS=09577966&RS=09577966
owner: Twitter, Inc.
number: 09577966
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150612
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 13 744 929 filed Jan. 18 2013 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 177 589 filed Jul. 22 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 401 009 which claims the benefit of provisional application No. 60 951 415 filed Jul. 23 2007. The contents of each of these applications are incorporated herein in their entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to the field of electronic communications and more specifically to distributing messages independently of the sending or receiving devices.

Electronic communication is normally available only between similar devices or message types. When a user sends an e mail message through an e mail client the sender specifies the e mail addresses of the recipients and the message is delivered to the e mail accounts of the recipients who retrieve the messages through e mail clients. Similarly a user will send a Short Message Service SMS message from a cell phone specify the phone numbers of the recipients and the recipients will view the message on their cell phones. Similar procedures are normally followed for Instant Messaging IM and Web based communication such as a web based discussion forum .

While there is some ability to communicate between devices or message types there are still significant limitations. For example it is possible to send SMS messages from a web based interface and it is possible to send SMS messages from a cell phone to an e mail account. However these features are often provider specific for example a user often must go to a specific provider e.g. Verizon website to send SMS messages to that specific provider s mobile phone service i.e. Verizon and do not provide more generally useful cross device communication capabilities. Also a sender is still required to send to a particular receiving device or format of the receiver and the sender must know the appropriate address to send to. For example instead of being able to send a message to a user and allow the user to receive the message however the user chooses e mail IM or SMS the sender must specify the method of receipt and the corresponding address for example SMS with a phone number .

Additionally there is no general method of sending a message to multiple users who may be receiving the same message using different devices or interfaces. For example a user may want to send a message to three SMS recipients all using different cell phone service providers two e mail recipients and a web interface recipient.

In general the current state of the art lacks inter alia a system and method for sending a message to multiple receivers where the sender and receivers are using different devices and interface and where the sender does not need to have knowledge of the receiver s particular device and interface or the receiver s address for the particular device and interface of choice.

Disclosed is a system and or method that includes for example a routing engine that receives a message from any of various entry points including e mail short message service SMS instant messenger IM web input and application programming interface API function calls. The routing engine determines the identities of the destination users to receive the message possibly by expanding destination groups. The routing engine determines the endpoints on which the destination users wish to receive the message the endpoints can be one or more of e mail SMS IM web input and API function calls. The destination endpoints are independent of the source entry points and the message sender does not need to have knowledge of the endpoints or endpoint specific user addresses. A single user can receive a message at multiple endpoints. The routing engine applies rules to the message to determine the actual destination endpoints for each user translates the message as appropriate for each endpoint and transmits the message to the endpoints where the message is delivered to the destination user.

The system beneficially allows for device independent point to multipoint communication. The destination endpoints are independent of the source entry points and the message sender does not need to have knowledge of the endpoints or endpoint specific user addresses. A receiving user controls that user s destination endpoint and receipt preferences. A message can be translated for improved viewing on a particular destination endpoint. Additionally advertisements can be provided to users based on user activity in the system.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures FIGS. . It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The entry point communicatively couples the routing engine . The routing engine communicatively couples the transmission engine . Specifically the routing engine couples with the web API IM e mail or SMS transmission engines . The web and API transmission engines couple with the web and API endpoints respectively through the mass storage . The IM and e mail transmission engines couple with the IM and e mail endpoints respectively. The SMS transmission engine D couples with the SMS endpoint D through the aggregator .

A user composes a message to be sent from an entry point or initiating endpoint . There are several possible devices and interfaces for sending a message here referred to as entry points . One entry point is Short Messaging Service SMS where a user typically creates an SMS message on a cell phone. Another entry point is Instant Messaging IM where a user can be running an IM client such as Google Talk on a computer and the user composes the message in the IM client. Another entry point is E mail where a user composes a message to be sent by an e mail client. Another entry point is the World Wide Web or web where a user visits a specific site or sites to compose a message and submit it through the site for example via a web form .

Another possible entry point is through Application Program Interface API functions. An API allows creation of many additional types of interfaces for a user to compose and send a message. For example a specialized application or website can be designed where the user can compose a message and the message is sent using an API function provided by the routing engine. Sample API functions are discussed further below.

Note that the entry point device can be any computing device for example a cell or mobile phone a laptop computer desktop or server computer or a specialized appliance having communication capability. The entry point can be different at each endpoint and need not be the same.

The routing engine receives a message from an entry point and determines where the message is to be sent. The routing engine may produce multiple copies of the message to be sent to multiple endpoints . The routing engine sends messages to the appropriate transmission engines for delivery to the endpoints . The routing engine is described further below. The endpoints represent the actual user devices and interfaces for receiving the message. The transmission engines send messages to their respective endpoints . The transmission engines may also send the messages to a storage or aggregator as described below before the messages are received at the endpoint. The transmission engines and endpoints are described further below.

A message can be sent by a user from an entry point to multiple users at multiple endpoints . For example suppose User1 sends an SMS message. This message can be received by User2 via e mail and IM received by User3 via SMS and received by User4 by Web and IM. The endpoints at which a particular user receives messages is under control of the receiving user and is not of concern for the sending user. The system beneficially allows a user from an entry point to send a message to multiple users at different endpoints by simply addressing the message to the users or a group containing the users without knowledge of the specific endpoints associated with the users.

The group expansion module communicatively couples the group database and the user lookup module . The user lookup module also communicatively couples with the user database and the rules module . The rules module also communicatively couples with the rules database and the translation module .

A message is received from the entry point by the group expansion module . The group expansion module expands any group names in the addresses specified in the message. The group expansion module obtains group membership data from the group database .

A message can be addressed to a single other user a list of other users or a group name where the group includes one or more users. A group name can be for example Work which includes multiple addresses from the user s workplace. Users can define groups and send these definitions to the routing engine which stores them in the group database . Groups can be defined for example using a web or SMS based interface that communicates with the routing engine. The membership of a group can be controlled by a single user or by multiple users. In one embodiment individual users can add themselves to or remove themselves from a group by sending appropriate add or remove messages to the routing engine.

In one embodiment when a message is not addressed to any users or groups the message is sent to a default group. Each user has a default group that is referred to as the FollowerGroup of the user. A message not addressed to any recipient in particular is considered an update message that is sent to the user s FollowerGroup. A user can choose to follow another user and receive that user s updates by joining that user s FollowerGroup again possibly through a web or SMS interface that communicates with the routing engine and the group database . A user can restrict the membership of its FollowerGroup through a per follower approval or blocking process.

After any groups or default groups are expanded to individual users the message is received by the user lookup module . The message addresses specified by the user or expanded by the group expansion module are used only to identify the recipient users not to specify the method of receipt. For example a message can be addressed simply to the username UserX without specifying whether UserX is to receive the message through e mail SMS IM etc. The choice of method of receipt for each user is determined by the routing engine and the sender does not have knowledge of this. As a consequence the sender does not need to know specific per device addresses which the recipient may wish to keep secret or otherwise may be unable to divulge such as a cell phone number. However optionally the message can be given a device specific address such as a cell phone number if known. Such messages will still be delivered according to the recipient user s preferences which may or may not include an SMS message sent to a cell phone. The delivery formats of a message to a particular user are independent of the type of address used to identify the user.

The user lookup module looks up information for each recipient user to enable the user to receive the message. The routing engine uses this information to send the message to the appropriate endpoints for each user. The information includes each user s receiving preferences and device specific receiving addresses such as phone numbers. This information is stored in the user database . For example a user might specify that he or she wishes to receive messages through a web interface through e mail and through SMS i.e. a copy of each incoming message should be sent to each of those three endpoints for the user . This information would be stored in the user database along with that user s web interface login and password the user s e mail address and the user s cell phone number and cell phone service provider. The endpoints at which a user is to receive messages can change over time by updates from the user or by devices being turned on or off. In this way the messages can follow the user as the user moves from one device to another rather than requiring the user to check multiple devices for messages.

The user may further have specified receipt preferences such as when messages are to be received the maximum number of messages or special translation instructions. For example the user may specify that only 10 e mails are to be received per day that SMS messages should only be received between 8 00 am and 10 00 pm and that long URLs should be shortened. This information will also be stored in the user database. The user database is populated when users register with the system as described below and when users change their message receiving preferences possibly through a web interface with the system.

The user lookup module retrieves destination and receipt preference information for each recipient of the message and attaches this information to the message for further processing by the system. The message is received by the rules module which applies rules to further determine where the message is to be sent. The rules module processes the preferences specified by each recipient. For example if a recipient specified that it wanted to receive at most 10 e mails per day the rules module would determine if this daily threshold has been reached. If it has been then the message would not be sent by e mail and the rules module would remove the e mail destination address for that recipient for this message.

The rules module also applies global rules to the message and destination addresses. These global rules are specified in the rules database which can be populated by a system administrator. Examples of global limits include a maximum number of messages that a user can send or receive per day or a maximum message length. Also system wide limits can be imposed on messages. For example a maximum number of SMS messages sent by all users to cell phones with Verizon service can be sent by the system per month. The rules module will enforce this rule possibly by removing some Verizon SMS recipients from low priority messages when the number of messages is approaching the monthly limit.

The translation module receives messages from the rules module and processes the content of the messages based on the needs or preferences of the recipients. illustrates one embodiment of the translation module . The translation module modifies the body of the message so that it is compatible with and easy to view on the destination endpoint . Since a single message may be sent to multiple endpoints the translation module may produce copies of the message process them differently and send the differently translated copies to different endpoints e.g. one to IM recipients and one to SMS recipients .

The translation module includes a transcoder a link converter and an image converter . The transcoder communicatively couples with the link converter . The link converter communicatively couples with the image converter .

The transcoder converts the character encoding of the message if necessary. For example if the message is sent using SMTP e mail and is encoded using ASCII while the SMS recipient prefers to receive messages encoded using the GSM 7 bit alphabet the transcoder will convert the message. The encoding preference of a user can be automatically determined based on the device or interface on which the user will receive the message or can be based on user supplied preferences. This information can be obtained from the user database .

The link converter receives the message from the transcoder and processes hyperlinks and uniform resource locators URLs in the body of the message. The link converter can convert a plain text URL to an active link if the destination medium allows the user to follow active links for example by clicking on them. The link converter can also convert an active link back to a plain text URL. The link converter can shorten a URL to minimize the length of the message at the destination. One way to do this is to replace the longer URL with a shorter one that redirects to the original URL. This is useful for SMS receivers for example because their devices may have small screens and maximum message length restrictions. The link converter can also expand a URL that has been shortened.

The image converter can convert from a URL or link that points to an image to the image itself. For example an SMS sender may include a link to an image in a message being sent to an e mail receiver who is capable of reading e mails with inline or attached images. The image converter will visit the link in the SMS message obtain the image and place it directly in an e mail message to the recipient so that the recipient does not need to click on the link to view the image.

Next the routing engine sends the message to the appropriate transmission engines for transmission to the appropriate recipients. As described above a single message may be sent to recipients at different endpoints so that a single message may be routed to multiple transmission engines. The transmission engines control when the message is actually sent from the system and the engines may include queues to delay the sending of messages if necessary for example the receiving system is currently overloaded .

The web transmission engine A sends messages to a web interface so that the receiving user can log into a website and view the messages. The web transmission engine stores messages in a message storage that the receiving user can access. Other users can access messages designated as publicly viewable in the message storage. Additionally an Application Program Interface API function can access the message storage to retrieve messages. In one embodiment a user can request a particular web page and view all of the messages the user has recently received. Additionally a user can request various web pages that display all of the messages sent by other users that the requesting user has permission to view. For example a user specific web page may contain all messages sent to that user s FollowerGroup and any of the user s followers can view that page.

In one embodiment an API can be used to send messages from an entry point or retrieve messages at an endpoint . API functions are provided by the routing engine and transmission engine E. Applications for example with specialized graphical interfaces can be developed using the API for interacting with the routing engine and transmission engines. Some API functions may require authentication for example to ensure that a user is retrieving messages that only that user is permitted to retrieve.

The IM transmission engine B sends messages to an appropriate IM network such as Google Talk which then sends the message to the destination user via an IM client. The IM transmission engine B can send the message via XML.

The e mail transmission engine C sends messages via SMTP simple mail transfer protocol or any other appropriate electronic mail protocol to an appropriate destination e mail server. The e mail transmission engine C also can be configured to function with for example a messaging application programming interface MAPI .

The SMS transmission engine D sends messages to an aggregator . The SMS transmission engine can send messages using XML or SMPP. The aggregator sends SMS messages often in bulk to various SMS service providers that then send the messages to the devices of individual users. The aggregator can queue messages before sending them to an SMS service provider.

In one embodiment messages are dropped if they cannot be delivered. For example if a user is not logged into an IM client any messages sent to this endpoint are dropped though the messages may still be delivered to other endpoints. In another embodiment such messages are queued until they can be delivered. Alternatively the messages can be diverted to another endpoint where they can be retrieved later. For example SMS messages that cannot be delivered can be sent to a web endpoint.

A user registers with the system so that the user can send and receive messages. The registration process can be completed over a single entry point so that for example a user can fully register by sending SMS messages to the system without ever having to access a system website. A user can send a registration message to the system either specifying a username or asking the system to generate a username. The system stores the user s contact information such as a cell phone number and username and registers the user. The system sends back an acknowledgement possibly including a generated username. The user can register to receive updates from i.e. to follow other specified users and can otherwise configure his or her account with the system by sending configuration messages in specified formats to the system. A configuration message can contain for example message receipt preferences. In one embodiment a new user is automatically registered with the system when the new user either joins a group such as a followers group or sends a message. The new user can be given a system generated username and an account with default preferences.

Users may tend to follow other users with similar interests resulting in communities of users with similar interests. For example if users A B and C have a similar interests A may follow B and C B may follow A and C and C may follow A and B. As a result A B and C will have formed a community of users. Not all members of a community need to follow each other but a community generally has users frequently sending messages to each other.

Advertisements can be shown to users in sync with messages and can be targeted to the types of messages a user is receiving. Additionally the advertisement can take into account other information such as the device being used by the user the location of the user the time and date and the current activity of other users connected to the user. An advertiser can also collect user data for analysis or market research purposes.

Commercial accounts can be created with a third party where the third party such as third party content generators ESPN or MTV provides a specialized interface or content for users. For example the commercial account can include special artwork and messaging features or can provide the first notification of a new product release to their customers. Users in a community can follow certain notification services to keep them aware of community developments. Community members can interact by having community members follow their updates and by directly sending messages to various community services such as community votes.

Activity in the community enables a commercial account owner or advertiser to determine what s currently of interest to the community e.g. the buzz . Advertisements and community services can be modified based on the activity of users in the community. Searches can be conducted in message archives to mine for data and perform various market research analyses.

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a device independent communications platform. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosure is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope as defined in the appended claims.

