---

title: Lock control method and electronic device thereof
abstract: An electronic device having a lockscreen and a method implementing said lockscreen are disclosed herein, the electronic device including a display, a memory, and one or more processors configured to execute the method, the method including displaying a lockscreen pattern on the display including movable points repositionable in response to a drag input, and fixed points that are stationary, detecting drag inputs moving the movable points within the lockscreen pattern, and unlocking the electronic device if the detected drag inputs moving the movable points matches a pre-specified unlock condition stored in the memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589126&OS=09589126&RS=09589126
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09589126
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150407
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Application Serial No. 10 2014 0041210 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Apr. 7 2014 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a technology for a pattern based unlock function within an electronic device.

Electronic devices have been developed as multimedia devices that provide various services such as a voice and video call function information input output function and data transmission reception.

Since the electronic devices store information including personal information in memory a security functions may be set to limit access to electronic devices.

According to various embodiments an electronic device may provide an apparatus and a method for releasing a lockscreen through the use of a pattern.

According to various embodiments an electronic device may provide an apparatus and a method for releasing a lockscreen based on a plurality of drag inputs within a lockscreen pattern.

According to various embodiments an electronic device may provide an apparatus and a method for displaying change or folding of a lockscreen pattern according to a plurality of drag inputs made within the lockscreen pattern.

In one aspect of this disclosure a method for a lockscreen in an electronic device is disclosed herein including displaying a lockscreen pattern including movable points repositionable in response to a drag input and fixed points that are stationary detecting drag inputs moving the movable points within the lockscreen pattern and unlocking the electronic device if the detected drag inputs moving the movable points matches a pre specified unlock condition.

In one aspect of this disclosure an electronic device is disclosed including a display a memory and one or more processors configured to execute operations of displaying a lockscreen pattern on the display including movable points repositionable in response to a drag input and fixed points that are stationary detecting drag inputs moving the movable points within the lockscreen pattern and unlocking the electronic device if the detected drag inputs moving the movable points matches a pre specified unlock condition stored in the memory.

In one aspect of this disclosure a computer readable recording medium storing program is provided the program executable to conduct operations including displaying a lockscreen pattern including movable points repositionable in response to a drag input and fixed points that are stationary detecting drag inputs moving the movable points within the lockscreen pattern and unlocking the electronic device if the detected drag inputs moving the movable points matches a pre specified unlock condition.

Hereinafter various embodiments will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Although specific embodiments are illustrated in the drawings and related detailed descriptions are discussed in the present disclosure the present disclosure may have various modifications and several embodiments. Accordingly the present disclosure is not limited to a specific implementation form and it should be understood that the present disclosure includes all changes or equivalents and substitutes for the present disclosure. In connection with descriptions of the drawings similar components are designated by the same reference numeral.

For example the electronic device may be one or a combination of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessary a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch a home appliance for example refrigerator air conditioner cleaner an artificial intelligence robot a TeleVision TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio player oven microwave oven washing machine air cleaner and electronic picture frames various types of medical devices for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT scanner an ultrasonic device and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV an electronic dictionary a vehicle infotainment device electronic equipment for a ship for example a navigation device for ship a gyro compass and the like avionics a security device electronic clothes an electronic key a camcorder game consoles a Head Mounted Display HMD a flat panel display device an electronic frame an electronic album furniture or a part of buildings structures having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a wearable device and a projector. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module or a communication module .

The bus may be a circuit for connecting components for example the bus the processor the memory the user input module the display module or the communication module included in the electronic device and transferring communication for example control messages between the components.

The processor may receive commands from the components included in the electronic device through the bus analyze the received commands and perform calculations or data processing according to the analyzed commands. At this time the processor may execute one or more applications stored in the memory and make a control to provide services according to the corresponding applications. For example the processor may be configured as illustrated in to control a frame rate of a display by executing a lock control program and a display control program .

The processor may include one or more Application Processors APs or one or more Communication Processors CPs . The AP and the CP may be included in the processor or may be included in different IC packages respectively. Further the AP and the CP may be included in one IC package. The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and perform processing of various pieces of data including multimedia data and calculations. The AP may be implemented by a System on Chip SoC . The CP may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions. Further the CP may distinguish between and authenticate terminals within a communication network by using a subscriber identification module for example a SIM card . At this time the CP may provide a user with services including a voice call a video call a short message service and packet data. Further the CP may control data transmission reception of the communication module . The AP or the CP may load commands or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other components connected to each of the AP and the CP in a volatile memory and may process the loaded commands or data. Further the AP or the CP may store data received from or generated by at least one of other components in a non volatile memory. The CP may manage a data link in communication between an electronic device including hardware and other electronic devices connected to the electronic device through a network and may perform a function of switching a communication protocol. The CP may be implemented by the SoC. The processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The memory may store commands or data received from the processor or other components for example the user input module the display module or the communication module or generated by the processor or other components. At this time the memory may include an internal buffer and an external buffer.

Further the memory may include the lock control program and the display control program . At this time each application may include a programming module and each programming module may include software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The lock control program may include at least one software component for setting a pattern for unlocking based on a plurality of drags. For example the lock control program may determine a pattern release value based on coordinates of positions along which a point is moved according to a user s control on a pattern setting screen. In another example the lock control program may determine a pattern release value based on coordinates and orders of positions to which points have moved according to a user s control on a pattern setting screen. In another example the lock control program may determine a pattern release value based on a coordinate of a point according to a user s control on a pattern setting screen.

Further the lock control program may include at least one software component for determining unlocking based on a plurality of drags for a pattern displayed on a lock screen. For example the lock control program may determine unlocking based on coordinates of positions along which a point is moved according to a user s control in the pattern displayed on the lock screen. In another example the lock control program may determine unlocking based on coordinates and orders of positions to which points have moved according to a user s control in the pattern displayed on the lock screen. In another example the lock control program may determine unlocking based on a coordinate of a point according to a user s control on the lock screen.

The display control program may include at least one software component for making a control to display at least one piece of display data through the display module . For example the display control program may display the pattern setting screen through the display module according to a control of the lock control program . In another example the display control program may display the lock screen including a pattern through the display module according to a control of the lock control program . At this time the display control program may display the pattern setting screen including a plurality of movable points or fixed points. The movable points may be moved responsive to an input such as a touch based drag gesture. That is a touch gesture dragging one of the movable points may reposition the movable point according to a release point of the touch gesture. The fixed points may be fixed or otherwise stationary so as to not be moveable in response to any touch input. The touch input may be for example a single touch input or a multi touch input implementing any conventional gesture such as a drag gesture.

Further the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory. The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM or a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory . At this time the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD type. The external memory may include at least one of a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD and a memory stick.

The memory may further include a kernel middleware and an Application Programming Interface API . The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory used for executing operations or functions implemented in the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API or applications . Further the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware API or applications may access individual components of the electronic device to control or manage the components. The middleware may serve to mediate between the API or applications and the kernel so that they can communicate to exchange data with each other. Further the middleware may perform load balancing for operation requests received from one or more applications by using a method of assigning priorities to the operation requests to first use system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device . The API corresponds to an interface through which applications can control functions provided from the kernel or middleware and may include at least one interface or function for performing file control window control image processing or text control.

The user input module may receive commands or data from the user and transmit the received commands or data to the processor or the memory through the bus . For example the user input module may include a touch panel a pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device. For example the touch panel may recognize a touch input through at least one type of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an ultrasonic type. The touch panel may further include a controller. In the capacitive type the touch panel may recognize proximity hovering as well as a direct touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. At this time the touch panel may provide the user with a tactile reaction. For example the pen sensor may be implemented using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of a user or using a separate recognition sheet. For example the key may include a keypad or a touch key. For example the ultrasonic input device may be a device which can identify data by detecting sound waves by a microphone of the electronic device through a pen generating an ultrasonic signal and may perform radio recognition.

The display module may display an image a video or data for the user. For example the display module may include a panel or hologram. For example the panel may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . Further the panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be implemented by one module together with the touch panel. For example the hologram may show a three dimensional image in the air using interference of light. In addition the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel or the hologram.

The communication module may connect communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices and . The communication module may support a short range communication protocol for example Wi Fi BlueTooth BT or Near Field Communication NFC or network communication for example Internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN telecommunication network cellular network or satellite network or a Plain Old Telephone Service or POTS . The network may also connect to another server . Each of the electronic devices and may be a device which is the same as the electronic device for example same type device or another device for example different type device .

Additionally the electronic device may further include a sensor module. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor a gyro sensor an atmospheric pressure sensor a magnetic sensor an acceleration sensor a grip sensor a proximity sensor a Red Greed and Blue RGB sensor a bio sensor a temperature humidity sensor an illumination sensor and Ultra Violet UV sensor. Further the sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and convert the measured or detected information to an electrical signal. For example the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included in the sensor module.

The names of the above described hardware components according to various embodiments may vary depending on the type of electronic device. The hardware according to various embodiments may include at least one of the above described components a few of the components may be omitted or an additional component may be further included. Also some of the hardware components according to various embodiments may be combined into one entity which may perform functions identical to those of the relevant components before the combination.

The lock controller may control a pattern setting for unlocking based on a plurality of drags by executing the lock control program stored in the memory . For example the lock controller may determine a pattern release value based on coordinates of positions along which a point is moved according to a user s control on a pattern setting screen. In another example the lock controller may determine a pattern release value based on coordinates and orders of positions to which points have moved according to a user s control on a pattern setting screen. In still another example the lock controller may determine a pattern release value based on a coordinate of a point according to a user s control on a pattern setting screen.

The lock controller may control unlocking based on a plurality of drags for a pattern displayed on a lock screen by executing the lock control program stored in the memory . For example the lock controller may determine unlocking based on coordinates of positions along which a point is moved according to a user s control in the pattern displayed on the lock screen. In another example the lock controller may determine unlocking based on coordinates and orders of positions to which points have moved according to a user s control in the pattern displayed on the lock screen. In another example the lock controller may determine unlocking based on a coordinate of a point according to a user s control on the lock screen.

The lock controller may further include a folder order recording unit for setting an order in which movable points must be moved to fold the on screen pattern and release the lockscreen. The lock controller may also include a folder order inspecting unit for detecting a lock release attempt and to determine whether the received folding order matches a pre stored folder order.

The display controller may make a control to display data through the display module by executing the display control program stored in the memory . For example the display controller may display the pattern setting screen through the display module according to a control of the lock controller . In another example the display controller may display the lock screen including a pattern through the display module according to a control of the lock controller . At this time the display controller may display the pattern setting screen including a plurality of movable points or fixed points.

According to various embodiments an electronic device comprising a display a memory and one or more processors configured to execute operations of displaying a lockscreen pattern on the display including movable points repositionable in response to a drag input and fixed points that are stationary detecting drag inputs moving the movable points within the lockscreen pattern and unlocking the electronic device if the detected drag inputs moving the movable points matches a pre specified unlock condition stored in the memory.

According to various embodiments the pre specified unlock condition includes a pre specified order for the drag inputs moving the movable points within the lockscreen pattern and the electronic device is unlocked if an order of the detected drag inputs matches the pre specified order.

According to various embodiments the pre specified unlock condition further includes pre specified coordinates to which each of the plurality of drag inputs is moved and the electronic device is unlocked if each of the detected drag inputs are moved to each of the pre specified coordinates in the order matching the pre specified order.

According to various embodiments the operations further include in response to detecting a drag input moving a particular movable point displaying folding of the displayed lockscreen pattern wherein the folding is based on an initial coordinate of the particular moveable point and a direction in which the particular movable point is moved by the drag input.

According to various embodiments the operations further including displaying at least one new movable point on the folded displayed lockscreen pattern.

According to various embodiments the at least one new movable point is disposed along an axis of a fold of the folded displayed lockscreen pattern.

According to various embodiments the at least one new movable point is displayed by converting at least one fixed point into the at least one new movable point.

According to various embodiments the pre specified unlock condition further comprises pre specified source coordinates indicating particular movable points and the electronic device is unlocked if the drag inputs move the particular movable points corresponding to the pre specified source coordinates.

According to various embodiments the pre specified unlock condition further comprises pre specified destination coordinates to which the particular movable points are to be moved and the electronic device is unlocked if the drag inputs move the particular movable points from the pre specified source coordinates to the pre specified desintation coordinates.

Referring to the electronic device may identify a plurality of drag inputs in step . For example as illustrated in the electronic device may display a lock screen including a pattern including a plurality of movable points to . The pattern displayed on the display may be a pattern pre stored in the electronic device or a pattern defined by the user. At this time the electronic device may identify whether one or more of the plurality of movable points to are moved by a user s control. The one or more of the plurality of movable points to may move to the plurality of movable points to or a plurality of fixed points to .

Thereafter in step the electronic device may identify a coordinate corresponding to each of the drag inputs. For example as illustrated in when a user makes a drag or from a first movable point or a second movable point and then releases the touch at a first fixed point the electronic device may store a coordinate of the first fixed point . At this time the electronic device may display a folded pattern type as illustrated in . That is the pattern may be folded according to the selected first movable point or and a direction in which the selected first movable point or was moved by the drag or . In addition the electronic device may designate e.g. generate and or display new movable points based on the resulting folded pattern type illustrated in . For example referring to the pattern has been folded along an axis defined by points and . Accordingly a new movable point is disposed at point which was previously a fixed point referring to . The new movable point is disposed along the axis of the fold.

Thereafter in step the electronic device may determine unlocking based on a coordinate corresponding to each of the drag inputs. For example when coordinates to which the points have moved are the same as preset coordinates based on the pattern screen of the current state illustrated in or F the electronic device may unlock the lock screen. In another example when the coordinates to which the points have moved are not the same as the preset coordinates the input pattern is determined to not be the same as the preset pattern. Thus the electronic device may display information e.g. a message display indicating that a new pattern should be input e.g. because of the unmatched pattern to unlock the screen.

Referring to in step the electronic device may display a pattern setting screen. For example as illustrated in the electronic device may display a pattern setting screen including a plurality of movable points to e.g. a grid of points . The pattern of movable points and non movable or fixed points displayed on the display may be a pattern that is pre stored in the electronic device or a pattern defined by the user.

After displaying the pattern setting screen the electronic device may identify whether a point included in the pattern moves in step . For example the electronic device may identify whether one or more of the plurality of movable points to illustrated in are moved by a user s control. The one or more of the plurality of movable points to may move to the plurality of movable points to or a plurality of fixed points to . When the point included in the pattern does not move the electronic device may maintain the display of the pattern setting screen to continuously identify whether the point included in the pattern moves.

Meanwhile when the point included in the pattern moves the electronic device may identify whether the touch is released in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes a drag or from a first movable point or a second movable point the electronic device may identify whether the touch is released after the drag or .

When the touch is released the electronic device may store a coordinate of the position to which the point has moved in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes the drag or from the first movable point or the second movable point and then releases the touch at a first fixed point the electronic device may store a coordinate of the first fixed point . At this time the electronic device may display a folded pattern type as illustrated in . In addition the electronic device may newly designate movable points based on the folded pattern type illustrated in .

Thereafter in step the electronic device may identify whether a pattern setting storage event is generated. When the pattern setting storage event is not generated the electronic device may maintain the display of the pattern setting screen and continuously identify whether the point included in the pattern moves.

Meanwhile when the pattern setting storage event is generated the electronic device may store a pattern release value based on the coordinate to which the point has moved in step . For example when the pattern setting storage event is generated on the pattern setting screen illustrated in or F the electronic device may store a coordinate of the position to which the point has moved as the pattern release value based on the pattern setting screen of the current state.

When the pattern setting storage event is generated the electronic device may display an initial pattern setting screen to receive the same pattern setting again as illustrated in in order to increase the accuracy of the pattern setting. When the same pattern setting is input by a user s control the electronic device may store the pattern release value. When a different pattern setting is input the electronic device may display information indicating that a new setting should be made since the pattern setting is different.

Referring to in step the electronic device may display a pattern setting screen. For example as illustrated in the electronic device may display a pattern setting screen including a plurality of movable points to . The pattern displayed on the display may be a pattern pre stored in the electronic device or a pattern defined by the user.

After displaying the pattern setting screen the electronic device may detect whether a point included in the pattern moves in step . For example the electronic device may detect whether one or more of the plurality of movable points to as illustrated in are moved by a user s control. The one or more of the plurality of movable points to may move to the plurality of movable points to or a plurality of fixed points to . When the point included in the pattern does not move the electronic device may maintain the display of the pattern setting screen and continuously detect whether the point included in the pattern moves.

Meanwhile when the point included in the pattern moves the electronic device may detect whether the touch is released in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes a drag or from a first movable point or a second movable point the electronic device may detect whether the touch is released after the drag or .

When the touch is released the electronic device may store coordinates and orders of positions to which the points have moved in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes the drag from the first movable point and then releases the touch at a first fixed point the electronic device may store a coordinate of the first fixed point and an order corresponding to a first movement. In another example as illustrated in when a user makes the drag from the second movable point and then releases the touch at the first fixed point the electronic device may store a coordinate of the second fixed point and an order corresponding to a second movement. At this time the electronic device may display a folded pattern type as illustrated in . In addition the electronic device may newly designate movable points based on the folded pattern type illustrated in .

Thereafter in step the electronic device may detect whether a pattern setting storage event is generated. When the pattern setting storage event is not generated the electronic device may maintain the display of the pattern setting screen to continuously detect whether the point included in the pattern moves.

Meanwhile when the pattern setting storage event is generated the electronic device may store a pattern release value based on the coordinate and order of the position to which the point has moved in step . For example when the pattern setting storage event is generated on the pattern setting screen illustrated in or F the electronic device may store a coordinate or order of the position to which the point has moved as the pattern release value based on the pattern setting screen of the current state.

When the pattern setting storage event is generated the electronic device may display an initial pattern setting screen to receive the same pattern setting again as illustrated in in order to increase the accuracy of the pattern setting. When the same pattern setting is input by a user s control the electronic device may store the pattern release value. When a different pattern setting is input the electronic device may display information indicating that a new setting should be made since the pattern setting is different.

Referring to in step the electronic device may display a pattern setting screen. For example as illustrated in the electronic device may display a pattern setting screen including a plurality of movable points to . The pattern displayed on the display may be a pattern pre stored in the electronic device or a pattern defined by the user.

After displaying the pattern setting screen the electronic device may identify whether a point included in the pattern moves in step . For example the electronic device may identify whether one or more of the plurality of movable points to as illustrated in are moved by a user s control. The one or more of the plurality of movable points to may move to the plurality of movable points to or a plurality of fixed points to . When the point included in the pattern does not move the electronic device may maintain the display of the pattern setting screen to continuously identify whether the point included in the pattern moves.

Meanwhile when the point included in the pattern moves the electronic device may identify whether the touch is released in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes a drag or from a first movable point or a second movable point the electronic device may identify whether the touch is released after the drag or .

When the touch is released the electronic device may store a coordinate of the point included in the pattern in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes a drag from a first movable point and then releases the touch at a first fixed point the electronic device may store coordinates of the points remained in the pattern setting screen as illustrated in . According to various embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may store coordinates of movable points to remained in the pattern setting screen. According to various embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may store coordinates of fixed points to remained in the pattern setting screen. According to various embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may store a combination of coordinates of movable points and fixed points remained in the pattern setting screen.

In another example as illustrated in when a user makes the drag from the second movable point and then releases the touch at the first fixed point the electronic device may store coordinates included in the pattern as illustrated in . More specifically the electronic device may store coordinates of points based on at least one of the movable points to and the fixed points to and a combination of the movable points and the fixed points in the pattern illustrated in OE.

At this time the electronic device may display a folded pattern type as illustrated in . In addition the electronic device may newly designate movable points based on the folded pattern type illustrated in .

Thereafter in step the electronic device may identify whether a pattern setting storage event is generated. When the pattern setting storage event is not generated the electronic device may maintain the display of the pattern setting screen to continuously identify whether the point included in the pattern moves.

Meanwhile when the pattern setting storage event is generated the electronic device may store a pattern release value based on the coordinates of the points included in the pattern in step . For example when the pattern setting storage event is generated on the pattern setting screen illustrated in or F the electronic device may store coordinates of the points included in the pattern as the pattern release value based on the pattern setting screen of the current state.

When the pattern setting storage event is generated the electronic device may display an initial pattern setting screen to receive the same pattern setting again as illustrated in in order to increase the accuracy of the pattern setting. When the same pattern setting is input by a user s control the electronic device may store the pattern release value. When a different pattern setting is input the electronic device may display information indicating that a new setting should be made since the pattern setting is different.

In the above described embodiment the electronic device may set the pattern release value based on coordinates of positions to which points included in the pattern have moved coordinates or orders of positions to which points have moved or coordinates of points included in the pattern.

In another embodiment the electronic device may control unlocking based on a result of a comparison between coordinates of positions to which points included in the pattern and preset values as illustrated in .

Referring to in step the electronic device may display a lock screen including a pattern. For example as illustrated in the electronic device may display a lock screen including a pattern having a plurality of movable points to . The pattern displayed on the display may be a pattern pre stored in the electronic device or a pattern defined by the user.

After displaying the lock screen the electronic device may identify whether a point included in the pattern is moved in step . For example the electronic device may identify whether one or more of the plurality of movable points to as illustrated in are moved by a user s control e.g. a touch input . The one or more of the plurality of movable points to may be moved to another of the plurality of movable points to or to one of a plurality of fixed points to . When the point included in the pattern is not moved the electronic device may maintain the display of the lock screen and monitor as to whether the point included in the pattern is moved.

Meanwhile when the point included in the pattern is moved the electronic device may identify whether the touch input is released in step . For example as illustrated in when a user executes a drag input or from a first movable point or a second movable point the electronic device may identify whether the touch input is released indicating a termination of the drag input or .

When the touch input is released the electronic device may detect and or store a coordinate of the position to which the point has moved in step . For example as illustrated in when a user executes the drag input or from the first movable point or the second movable point and then releases the touch at a first fixed point the electronic device may detect and or store a coordinate of the first fixed point . At this time the electronic device may display a folded pattern type as illustrated in . In addition the electronic device may newly designate movable points based on the folded pattern type illustrated in .

Thereafter in step the electronic device may compare a time elapsed from the release of the touch with a pre specified reference e.g. threshold time. When the time elapsed from the touch release is smaller than the reference time the electronic device may proceed to step and may further detect whether another point is moved to release the lock pattern.

Meanwhile when the time elapsed from the touch release is larger than or equal to the reference time the electronic device may be successfully unlocked based on a result of the comparison between at least a coordinate of a position to which the at least one point has moved with a preset value in step . For example when there is a series of detected moved points the comparison may determine that coordinates to which the points have been moved are the same as preset coordinates based on the current pattern screen illustrated in or F and thus the electronic device may release the lock screen. In another example when the plurality of coordinates to which the points have moved do not match the preset coordinates it may be determined that the input pattern is not the same as the preset pattern so the lock screen may not be released. The electronic device may instead display a request to input a new pattern.

Referring to in step the electronic device may display a lock screen including a pattern. For example as illustrated in the electronic device may display a lock screen including a pattern including a plurality of movable points to . The pattern displayed on the display may be a pattern pre stored in the electronic device or a pattern defined by the user.

After displaying the lock screen the electronic device may identify whether a point included in the pattern moves in step . For example the electronic device may identify whether one or more of the plurality of movable points to as illustrated in are moved by a user s control. The one or more of the plurality of movable points to may move to the plurality of movable points to or a plurality of fixed points to . When the point included in the pattern does not move the electronic device may maintain the display of the lock screen and continuously identify whether the point included in the pattern moves.

Meanwhile when the point included in the pattern moves the electronic device may identify whether the touch is released in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes a drag or from a first movable point or a second movable point the electronic device may identify whether the touch is released after the drag or .

When the touch is released the electronic device may store both the coordinates to which each point was moved and the order of positions to which the points have moved in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes the drag from the first movable point and then releases the touch at a first fixed point the electronic device may store a coordinate of the first fixed point and an order thereof corresponding to a first movement. Similarly as illustrated in when a user makes the drag from the second movable point and then releases the touch at the first fixed point the electronic device may store a coordinate of the first fixed point and an order corresponding to a second movement. At this time the electronic device may display a folded pattern type as illustrated in . In addition the electronic device may newly designate movable points based on the folded pattern type illustrated in .

Thereafter in step the electronic device may compare a time elapsed from the release of the touch with a reference time. When the time elapsed from the touch release is smaller than the reference time the electronic device may proceed to step and may identify whether a point additionally moves to release the pattern.

Meanwhile when the time elapsed from the touch release is larger than or equal to the reference time the electronic device may be unlocked when a comparison between a coordinate and order of a position to which the point has moved with preset values in step . For example when both the coordinates to which the respective points were moved and the order in which each point was moved to the respective position matches the preset coordinates and preset movement orders based on the pattern screen of the current state illustrated in or F the electronic device may make a control to release the lock screen. In another example when the coordinates and orders of positions to which the points have moved do not match the preset coordinates and respective orders it is determined that the input pattern is not the same as the preset pattern. The lock may not be released and the electronic device may instead display information indicating or requesting that a new pattern should be input.

Referring to in step the electronic device may display a lock screen including a pattern. For example as illustrated in the electronic device may display a lock screen including a pattern having a plurality of movable points to . The pattern displayed on the display may be a pattern pre stored in the electronic device or a pattern defined by the user.

After displaying the lock screen the electronic device may identify whether a point included in the pattern moves in step . For example the electronic device may identify whether one or more of the plurality of movable points to as illustrated in are moved by a user s control. The one or more of the plurality of movable points to may move to the plurality of movable points to or a plurality of fixed points to . When the point included in the pattern does not move the electronic device may maintain the display of the lock screen and continuously identify whether the point included in the pattern moves.

Meanwhile when the point included in the pattern moves the electronic device may identify whether the touch is released in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes a drag or from a first movable point or a second movable point the electronic device may identify whether the touch is released after the drag or .

When the touch is released the electronic device may store a coordinate of the point included in the pattern in step . For example as illustrated in when a user makes the drag or from the first movable point or the second movable point and then releases the touch at the first fixed point the electronic device may store coordinates of points included in the pattern setting screen of the current state such as a coordinate of the movable point that was moved a coordinate of a fixed or movable point to which the movable point was moved or both coordinates of the movable point that was moved and the fixed or movable point to which the movable point was moved At this time the electronic device may display a folded pattern as illustrated in . In addition the electronic device may designate and display new movable points based on the folded pattern type illustrated in .

Thereafter in step the electronic device may compare a time elapsed from the release of the touch with a reference time. When the time elapsed from the touch release is smaller than the reference time the electronic device may proceed to step and may identify whether a point additionally moves to release the pattern.

Meanwhile when a time elapsed from the touch release is larger than or equal to a reference time the electronic device may be unlocked based on a result of the comparison between the coordinate of the point included in the pattern with a preset value in step . For example when the coordinate of the point included in the pattern of the current state illustrated in or F is the same as a preset coordinate the electronic device may make a control to release the lock screen. In another example when the coordinate of the point included in the pattern is not the same as the preset coordinate it means that the input pattern is not the same as the preset pattern so that the electronic device may display information indicating that a new pattern should be input.

Although the form in which parts of the pattern which are folded do not overlap each other when the electronic device sets or releases the pattern has been described in the above embodiment the electronic device may include the form in which folded parts of the pattern overlap each other as illustrated in .

For example as illustrated in the electronic device may display a pattern setting screen including a plurality of movable points to . The pattern displayed on the display may be a pattern pre stored in the electronic device or a pattern defined by the user.

After displaying the pattern setting screen the electronic device may identify whether one or more of the plurality of movable points to are moved by a user s control. The one or more of the plurality of movable points to may move to the plurality of movable points to or a plurality of fixed points to .

When a user makes a drag or from a first movable point a second movable point or a third movable point as illustrated in or F the electronic device may identify release of the touch after the drag or .

When the touch is released at a first fixed point or a second fixed point after the drag or the electronic device may store a coordinate of the first fixed point or the second fixed point . At this time the electronic device may display a folded pattern type as illustrated in or G. In addition the electronic device may newly designate movable points based on the folded pattern type illustrated in or G.

When a pattern setting storage event is generated on the pattern setting screen illustrated in or G the electronic device may store a coordinate of the position to which the point has moved as a pattern release value based on the pattern setting screen of the current state. The electronic device may display an initial pattern setting screen to receive the same pattern setting again as illustrated in in order to increase the accuracy of the pattern setting. When the same pattern setting is input by a user s control the electronic device may store the pattern release value. When a different pattern setting is input the electronic device may display information indicating that a new setting should be made since the pattern setting is different.

In the above described embodiment the electronic device may include a form in which folded parts of the pattern overlap each in the pattern setting as illustrated in . In another embodiment the electronic device may include the form in which the folded parts of the pattern overlap each other in the pattern release.

According to various embodiments a method for a lockscreen in an electronic device the method comprising displaying a lockscreen pattern including movable points repositionable in response to a drag input and fixed points that are stationary detecting drag inputs moving the movable points within the lockscreen pattern and unlocking the electronic device if the detected drag inputs moving the movable points match a pre specified unlock condition.

According to various embodiments the pre specified unlock condition includes a pre specified order for the drag inputs moving the movable points within the lockscreen pattern and the electronic device is unlocked if an order of the detected drag inputs matches the pre specified order.

According to various embodiments the pre specified unlock condition further includes pre specified coordinates to which each of the plurality of drag inputs is moved and the electronic device is unlocked if each of the detected drag inputs are moved to each of the pre specified coordinates in the order matching the pre specified order.

According to various embodiments the method further comprising in response to detecting a drag input moving a particular movable point displaying folding of the displayed lockscreen pattern wherein the folding is based on an initial coordinate of the particular moveable point and a direction in which the particular movable point is moved by the drag input.

According to various embodiments the method further comprising displaying at least one new movable point on the folded displayed lockscreen pattern.

According to various embodiments the at least one new movable point is disposed along an axis of a fold of the folded displayed lockscreen pattern.

According to various embodiments the at least one new movable point is displayed by converting at least one fixed point into the at least one new movable point.

According to various embodiments the pre specified unlock condition further comprises pre specified source coordinates indicating particular movable points and

the electronic device is unlocked if the particular movable points moved by the drag inputs correspond to the pre specified source coordinates.

According to various embodiments the pre specified unlock condition further comprises pre specified destination coordinates to which the particular movable points are to be moved and the electronic device is unlocked if the drag inputs move the particular movable points from the pre specified source coordinates to the pre specified desintation coordinates.

As described above by determining the unlocking of the electronic device based on a plurality of drags for the pattern security of the electronic device may be enhanced.

Methods stated in claims and or specifications according to various embodiments may be implemented by hardware via the execution of software or a combination of hardware and software.

In the implementation of software a computer readable storage medium for storing one or more programs software modules may be provided. The one or more programs stored in the computer readable storage medium may be configured for execution by one or more processors within the electronic device. The one or more programs may include instructions for allowing the electronic device to perform methods stated in claims and or specifications according to various embodiments.

The programs software modules or software may be stored in non volatile memories including a random access memory and a flash memory a Read Only Memory ROM an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM a magnetic disc storage device a Compact Disc ROM CD ROM Digital Versatile Discs DVDs or other type optical storage devices or a magnetic cassette. Alternatively the programs may be stored in a memory configured by a combination of some or all of the listed components. Further a plurality of configuration memories may be included.

In addition the programs may be stored in an attachable storage device which may access the electronic device through communication networks such as the Internet Intranet Local Area Network LAN Wide LAN WLAN and Storage Area Network SAN or a combination thereof. The storage device may access the electronic device through an external port.

Further a separate storage device on a communication network may access a portable electronic device.

Meanwhile although the concrete embodiments of the present disclosure have been described in the detailed description of the present disclosure various modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the scope of the present disclosure should not be limited to the aforementioned embodiments but should be defined by the equivalents to the appended claims as well as the claims.

