---

title: Content access control in a social network
abstract: Disclosed are systems and methods associated with a social network application. A plurality of posts associated with a client system user is displayed. First and second posts in the plurality of posts are respectively associated with first and second recipient groups. While the posts are displayed, a post input area independent of the plurality of posts is also displayed. When the user selects the post input area, it is expanded by displacing the plurality of posts. Concurrently, a content item area is displayed within the expanded post input area. An input, comprising a content item, is received from the user in the content item area. An affordance is presented that enables the user to designate access control information corresponding distribution entities. The content item and the access control information are transmitted to a system whereupon access to the content item is restricted in accordance with the access control information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253196&OS=09253196&RS=09253196
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09253196
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150728
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 360 279 filed Jan. 27 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. This application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 436 951 filed Jan. 27 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate generally to social networking. More particularly the disclosed embodiments relate to access control for content in a social network.

Computers and mobile devices such as mobile phones have become increasingly interconnected due to the widespread availability of wired and wireless connections to communications networks such as the Internet. This interconnectivity has enabled ways for people to communicate with people far and near and to maintain social and professional bonds.

A popular means of communication that takes advantage of the interconnectivity are web based social network applications. In such social network applications a user can post a variety of comments from short messages or comments about his status or activities or just about anything to photos and videos and articles of interest. Users can find other users that they know or with whom they share interests and become followers of each others postings. As such social network applications offer their users opportunities to communicate and connect with each other through their social bonds and or common interests. At the same time a user in a social network may have different social circles and wish to keep the social circles separate. Content posted by the user for one social network circle may be irrelevant to or inappropriate for access by another social network circle.

In accordance with some embodiments a method is performed at a client system. The method includes concurrently displaying a content item area and access control list ACL information corresponding to an access control list of distribution entities receiving from a user of the client system input in the content item area the input including a content item presenting to the client system user an affordance that enables the client system user to update the access control list to produce an updated access control list including one or more distribution entities at least one distribution entity of the one or more distribution entities corresponding to one or more recipient entities and transmitting the content item and access control list to a server system for storing the content item in conjunction with the access control list. The server system enables access to the content item to one or more recipient entities in accordance with the access control list.

These and other embodiments can include one or more of the following features. In the method a respective recipient entity may be an individual user. The method may include receiving from the client system user input updating the access control list to produce an updated access control list and prior to receiving the input updating the access control list the access control list may be empty. The method may include receiving from the client system user input updating the access control list to produce an updated access control list and prior to receiving the input updating the access control list the access control list may be an initial access control list that includes one or more distribution entities. The one or more distribution entities included in the initial access control list may includes one or more distribution entities in an access control list associated with a most recent prior content item input by the client system user.

In the method a respective distribution entity corresponding to the displayed access control list information may be represented by a displayed graphical object. The method may include distributing the content item to one or more of the recipient entities to whom access has been enabled. Optionally a respective distribution entity may be a social network circle of one or more recipient entities the client system user may be a member of a social network the one or more recipient entities in the social network circle may include an individual user who is not a member of the social network and distributing the content may include sending an email message to the individual user who is not a member of the social network the email message including the content item or a location of the content item.

Optionally a respective distribution entity is a single recipient entity the client system user is a member of a social network the single recipient entity is an individual user who is not a member of the social network and distributing the content item includes sending an email message to the individual user who is not a member of the social network the email message including the content item or a location of the content item.

Optionally the client system user is a member of a social network and a respective distribution entity is a social network circle of one or more recipient entities. Further the one or more recipient entities in the social network circle may include an individual user who is a member of the social network. Optionally the one or more recipient entities in the social network circle may include an individual user who is not a member of the social network. Optionally the respective distribution entity is a set of one or more social network circles each social network circle having one or more recipient entities. Optionally a respective distribution entity includes one or more recipient entities associated with the client system user and one or more recipient entities associated with a respective recipient entity associated with the client system user. Optionally a respective distribution entity is a domain the domain including one or more recipient entities. Optionally a respective distribution entity is a single recipient entity the single recipient entity being an individual user. Further the client system user and the individual user may both be members of a social network. Alternatively the client system user may be a member of a social network while the individual user is not a member of the social network.

Optionally a respective distribution entity is a content feed associated with the client system user. The method may further include receiving from the client system user input providing credentials to access the content feed.

Optionally a respective distribution entity includes one or more recipient entities associated with a specified geographical region. Optionally a respective distribution entity includes one or more recipient entities associated with a specified institution.

In accordance with some embodiments a client system includes one or more processors memory and one or more programs the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors and the one or more programs include instructions for performing the operations of the method described above. In accordance with some embodiments a non transitory computer readable storage medium has stored therein one or more programs including instructions which when executed by a client system cause the client system to perform the operations of the method described above. These and other embodiments can include one or more of the additional features listed above.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without many of these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first contact could be termed a second contact and similarly a second contact could be termed a first contact. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts but they are not the same contact.

The terminology used in the description herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the claims. As used in the description of the embodiments and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or in response to detecting that a stated condition precedent is true depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined that a stated condition precedent is true or if a stated condition precedent is true or when a stated condition precedent is true may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or upon detecting or in response to detecting that the stated condition precedent is true depending on the context.

In some embodiments the client devices . . . N can be computing devices such as laptop or desktop computers smart phones personal digital assistants portable media players tablet computers or other appropriate computing devices that can be used to communicate with an electronic social network. In some embodiments the social network server system can be a single computing device such as a computer server while in other embodiments server system is implemented by multiple computing devices working together to perform the actions of a server system e.g. cloud computing . In some implementations the network s can be a public communication network e.g. the Internet cellular data network dialup modems over a telephone network or a private communications network e.g. private LAN leased lines or a combination of such communication networks.

Users through N of the client devices through N access the social network server system to participate in a social networking service. For example one or more of the client devices . . . N execute web browser applications that can be used to access the social networking service. In another example one or more of the client devices . . . N execute software applications that are specific to the social networking service e.g. social networking apps running on smart phones .

Users interacting with the client devices . . . N can participate in the social networking service provided by the server system by posting information such as text comments e.g. updates announcements replies notes tweets digital photos videos or other appropriate electronic information. Users of the social networking service can also annotate information posted by other users of the social networking service e.g. endorsing or liking a posting commenting on a posting . In some embodiments information can be posted on a user s behalf by systems and or services external to the social networking service or the server system . For example the user may post a review of a movie to a movie review website and with proper permissions that website may cross post the review to the social network on the user s behalf. In another example a software application executing on a mobile device with proper permissions may use global positioning system GPS capabilities to determine the user s location and automatically update the social network with his location e.g. At Home At Work In Brownsdale MN .

The information posted by users to the social networking service may include content posted directly into the social networking service e.g. text comment entered into a text entry field of the social networking service photos uploaded from client systems to the social network server system etc. . The posted information may also include links to content external to the social networking service or external content embedded into a posting in the social networking service. In some embodiments the external content is located at content hosts . For example the external content may be articles or more generally web pages hosted outside of the social networking service or online videos hosted by a video sharing site external to the social networking service. In some embodiments the social network server system may retrieve all or parts of the external content from content host in order to generate information e.g. article snippet and other information sample frame of video video information to help users identify the external content.

Users interacting with the client devices . . . N can also use the social network provided by the server system to define social network circles in order to organize and categorize the user s relationships to other users of the social networking service and to regulate which users in the social networking service and beyond will have access to information posted to the social networking service by the user.

In some embodiments the social network server system may communicate with one or more third party services through the network . Examples of third party services include other social networking services and microblogging services. The social network server system communicates with a third party service using one or more application programming interfaces APIs corresponding to the third party service . For example the social network server system may communicate with a third party service to post content to a content feed at the third party service.

Social circle is a personal circle. In some embodiments personal circles are groupings created by and known only to the user e.g. the contacts A B receive no indication that they are in the user s private social circle . In some embodiments personal circles are groupings created by the user and known to the user as well as the contacts e.g. contacts A B that are members of the social circle e.g. the contacts A B receive an indication that they have been added to the private social circle .

In some embodiments private circles are used to organize and categorize the contacts A H in ways that are relevant to the user . In some embodiments user uses personal circles to organize contacts in order to discretely target which of his contacts A H will see certain postings or have access to particular information. For example user may be politically active and tend to post items that would be appreciated by some contacts and vigorously opposed by others. As such the user can organize his contacts into Left Political Philosophy Friends and Right Political Philosophy Friends personal circles. By doing so user may better target selected postings to the people who would be most appreciative of such information or conversely may prevent contacts e.g. a subset of contacts A H who may be offended by such information from seeing such information.

Social circle is a shared private circle which may also be referred to simply as a shared circle. In general shared private circles are social circles that user creates and invites rather than assigns contacts to voluntarily join. Contacts that accept the invitation become members of the shared private circle. Members of a shared private circle can see information posted to that circle by the user and can post information to be shared with other members of the shared private circle. For example user may tend to post a large number of jokes to the social network. However while some of the contacts A H may find the jokes to be entertaining others may simply find them to be simply annoying. Realizing this user may create a jokes shared private circle and invite some or all of the contacts A H to join. With the jokes social circle in place the user may post witticisms to the jokes circle and only those contacts who have accepted the invitation are able to see user s comicality. Similarly members of the shared private circle are able to post messages to the social circle and those posts are visible to other members of that circle.

Social circle is a shared public circle. In general shared public circles are social circles that the user creates and invites rather than assigns contacts to voluntarily join. Further the existence of a shared public circle is publicly available such that other members of the social networking service e.g. not necessarily just the user s contacts A H may request to join the public social circle. Members of shared public circles may post information to and see updates posted by other members of the same public shared circle. In some embodiments public shares circles include fan or group circles e.g. circles dedicated to a particular place event product movie celebrity sports team company concept philosophy organization support network etc. . For example the user may create a shared public circle for his band and fans of his act may join the social circle to discuss upcoming shows download MPs of the band s music or post videos from recent concerts. In another example user may create a shared public circle for alumni of his high school graduating class which his former classmates may find and join in order to stay in touch with one another and post pictures from their school days. Once a shared public circle is created in some embodiments user can invite people to join the social circle. In some embodiments nonmembers of the social circle can request membership in the shared public circle and membership in a shared public circle is automatic upon request or alternatively membership requires the user s approval.

In some embodiments one or more default social circles can be provided or suggested to a user when the user subscribes to a social networking service. For example Friends Family and Coworkers social circles can automatically be provided in a user s profile upon the user subscribing to the particular social networking service. Other social circles can automatically be provided including for example an Acquaintances social circle and or a Just following social circle. In some embodiments the automatically created or suggested social circles can include personal social circles. Although default social circles can be automatically provided it may be left to the user to actually populate the default social circles with contacts. For example each of the default social circles may initially be empty of contacts and the user populates each of the default social circles as discussed in further detail herein.

In some embodiments one or more default social circles can be automatically generated based on the user s profile information. For example the user s profile may include demographic data e.g. age job data and or interests data e.g. sports hobbies . Through data mining techniques e.g. clustering social circle creations over a threshold number of users a provider of the social networking service may determine that users within a particular demographic typically create one or more particular types of social circles. By categorizing a user within a particular demographic the provider of the social networking service can suggest or automatically generate one or more particular default social circles. For example if a particular user falls within a demographic that corresponds to a high school student a default School Friends social circle is suggested to or automatically created for the user. As another example if a particular user falls within a demographic that corresponds to a college student a default College Friends social circle is suggested to or automatically created for the user. Social circles can also be suggested or created based on interest data provided in a user s profile. For example if a particular user s interests include skiing a default Ski Buddies social circle may be suggested to or automatically created for the user.

As discussed herein posts can be distributed to contacts within and in some embodiments also to recipients not within the social network including one or more social circles such that they are exclusively viewable by the indicated contacts and or contacts within one or more indicated social circles. For example and as discussed in further detail below with regard to a user of the social networking service can generate a post and indicate one or more social circles contacts or groups of contacts for distribution of the post. In some embodiments an auto complete component enables the user to type in part of the name of a social circle contact and or group to specify which social circles contacts and or groups require delivery of the post content. During a post write time a post data set is transmitted from the user s client computing device e.g. client system of to a distribution hub which can be provided at a server e.g. social network server system of . The post data set includes a plurality of data. In some embodiments the post data set includes post content data e.g. text uniform resource indicator URI timestamp data e.g. a timestamp indicating the time that the post was generated distribution data e.g. contacts one or more social circles etc. and identification ID data e.g. an ID assigned to the post data set upon generation of the post . In some embodiments the distribution data is processed to provide an access control list ACL that specifies which contacts social circles etc. within or without the social networking service are granted access to the post content. In some embodiments the distribution hub determines end points the post data set is to be distributed to based on the ACL. More specifically the set of contacts who are allowed access to the post is determined based on the ACL and the ID of the post is written to a per user view index at the distribution hub. When fetching posts to distribute to a user the user view index is accessed and the IDs of the various posts that the user is allowed to view are determined. The post data sets are retrieved from a data store e.g. a data store not shown at the social network server system of and are transmitted to a client system associated with the requesting user.

The social circles contacts groups etc. that the user includes in the ACL of a post are sometimes herein referred to as distribution entities. Thus an ACL may include one or more distribution entities. In some embodiments a distribution entity is a set of one or more social circles or a set of one or more contacts or a set of one o more groups. For example a distribution entity may be a social circle e.g. a friends circle or a set of the user s circles e.g. my circles . As another example a distribution entity may be an individual contact or the user s first and second degree contacts e.g. the user s friends and friends of friends . As a further example a distribution entity may be contacts that list a particular university as an affiliation or everybody in the social networking service. The contacts that are the ultimate distributive targets of a post by virtue of belonging to a distribution entity in the ACL are sometimes herein referred to as recipient entities.

Memory includes high speed random access memory such as DRAM SRAM DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices and may include non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices optical disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state storage devices. Memory may optionally include one or more storage devices remotely located from the processor s . Memory or alternatively the non volatile memory device s within memory comprises a non transitory computer readable storage medium. In some embodiments memory or the computer readable storage medium of memory stores the following programs modules and data structures or a subset thereof 

In some embodiments the social network module is a standalone application separate from the web browser module . For example social network module may be an app on a smart phone client device . In some embodiments the social network module includes a web browser sub module e.g. for browsing external web pages linked to in a post without opening a separate web browser module .

Memory includes high speed random access memory such as DRAM SRAM DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices and may include non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices optical disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state storage devices. Memory may optionally include one or more storage devices remotely located from the processor s . Memory or alternatively the non volatile memory device s within memory comprises a non transitory computer readable storage medium. In some embodiments memory or the computer readable storage medium of memory stores the following programs modules and data structures or a subset thereof 

The social network server system typically includes a database for storing and accessing posted content. As shown in posted content database includes content items also called posts and an index for helping to locate items in the database. A respective content item includes a content identifier content ID which uniquely identifies the content item an author identifier author ID of the person who posted the content item metadata representing various characteristics of the content item and the content of the content item . In some embodiments metadata includes a content type identifier identifying the type of the post e.g. text photo URL etc. and a datestamp that identifies when the content item was posted links to related content items e.g. a link to an item commented on by this post links to other content items that comment on this post . In some embodiments metadata also includes an access control list ACL sometimes called the distribution scope. The ACL or distribution scope specifies the range of users allowed to access the content item. Examples of the ACL or distribution scope are public indicating that all users of the social network can access the item and a list of one or more distribution entities e.g. social network circles user identifiers other social groups . In some embodiments the data structures used to store content items are more complex than shown in .

Social network module utilizes posted content database to determine what items to include in a content stream of a subscriber.

The content stream includes a number of posts A thru B. In some embodiments the content stream can include posts that are automatically selected based on the user s preferences and or web history. For example the post B is a post that was selected and presented to the user based on the user s expressed interest in music videos. A banner explains to the user why the post B was presented to him and an edit link when selected presents an interface with which the user can interact to modify the criteria that are used to control the presentation of automatic posts.

A latest selector when selected causes the posts A thru B to be arranged chronologically e.g. arranged by length of time elapsed since they were posted . A best selector when selected causes the posts A thru B to be arranged by quality. Optionally when the best selector is selected the posts included in the user s content stream are also selected in accordance with predefined quality criteria thereby excluding posts having low estimated relevance to the user. In some embodiments the quality of posts is determined by the user s relationship to the author of the post the reputation of the author the number of other people who read endorsed commented on or shared the post how well the subject matter of the post aligns with the user s preferences or interests or other appropriate criteria that can be used to estimate a post s relevance to the user. In some embodiments a stream arranged according to the estimated relevancies of the posts it includes can be called a perfect stream. The page also includes a post input area . The user can click on the post input area indicating intent to post something to the social network.

The post region includes a sharing region . In some embodiments the sharing region provides an interface that lets the user determine the visibility of a post he is authoring i.e. specify an ACL for the post. For example the user may add or remove contacts social circles groups or other distribution entities from the sharing region to specify an ACL for controlling who is allowed to see or otherwise access the post. In the illustrated example a Friends icon A and a Family icon B appear in the sharing region to indicate that the post is intended to be shared with only contacts that are members of the user s friends and or family social circles the ACL includes the Friends circle and the Family circle. In some embodiments icons e.g. icons that represent distribution entities e.g. social circles a set of social circles other groupings of contacts individual contacts etc. may be referred to as chips. An add link also herein called an affordance when selected presents an interface in which the user is able to select people and or circles to be added to the sharing region . Each of the icons A and B includes a remove button that removes the corresponding icon from the sharing region and the corresponding distribution entity from the ACL of the post when the button is activated. An icon corresponding to a social circle or a set of social circles may include a count indicator that displays the number of contacts in the corresponding circle or set of circles.

In some embodiments when the user selects the post input area to initiate a post the sharing region is initially populated with one or more icons . The icons in the initial population are the icons that were included in the ACL of the last post posted by the user. In some other embodiments the sharing region is initially empty i.e. no icon when the user selects the post input area .

A selector provides the user with a way to indicate whether the post should be shared through email to contacts who are not members of the social networking service. For example the user s family social circle may include contacts who have email addresses but who are not members of the social networking service e.g. his grandmother receives email through a non web capable cell phone or through a fixed purpose email appliance that is incapable of giving her access to the social networking service . By toggling the selector the user can choose whether or not the post should be sent by email to those nonmembers. An example of a post that the user may not wish to send by email can be a link to a video since the user s aforementioned grandmother may not be able to view the video on her non web capable equipment. A count indicator displays the number of contacts who from among the selections of distribution entities chosen by the user and displayed in the sharing region are not members of the social networking service and would therefore receive an emailed version of the post if the user so chooses.

A post button when selected causes the newly authored post to be published to the social networking service and made accessible to only those contacts that are members of the distribution entities chosen by the user and displayed in the sharing region . A close button when selected cancels the authoring of a post and closes the post region .

A sharing menu is also displayed when the user selects the add link . The sharing menu shows the authoring user s circles groups etc. that are selectable for inclusion in the sharing region and not already in the sharing region . For example the sharing menu includes My circles which is a distribution entity that includes all of the authoring user s circles except for a Just following circle . The sharing menu also includes one or more social circles not already included in the sharing region e.g. Book club Acquaintances Church . As another example the sharing menu also includes the distribution entity Anyone public on the web which makes the post publicly accessible and the distribution entity Extended network which makes the post accessible to first degree contacts of the user and second degree contacts of the user e.g. contacts within the networks of the contacts in the user s network . As a further example the sharing menu includes recent combinations of distribution entities to whom the user has recently shared posts. For example the user s most recent posts were shared with in one instance My circles and John Johnson and in another instance the Friends circle and the Family circle and John Smith. In some embodiments the list of recent combinations is displayed as empty when the distribution entities in the list are all already in the sharing region . The user may select any of the distribution entities or combinations of distribution entities in the sharing menu to add the selected distribution entity or combination to the sharing region .

When the user is finished adding and or removing distribution entities from the ACL the user may select e.g. click on an area outside of the sharing region to complete the adding and removing of icons to from the sharing region . shows the sharing region with the adding and removing of icons completed. The sharing region includes Friends icon A Church icon C and Tim Tam icon D. The post in the input box when posted will be visible to the Friends circle corresponding to the Friends icon A the Church circle corresponding to the Church icon C and the individual Tim Tam corresponding to the Tim Tam icon D. If the user changes his mind regarding the ACL the user may select the add link before the post is posted to resume adding removing icons to from the sharing region .

The selector as described above provides the user with a way to indicate whether the post should be shared through email to contacts who are not members of the social networking service. Optionally selector is accompanied by a change link . When the user selects the change link the user may further refine the sharing of the post through email. For example an email sharing dialog may be displayed to the user. The email sharing dialog lists the distribution entities in the ACL in accordance with the icons in the sharing region . If a distribution entity is a social circle e.g. Friends or Church a set of social circles or a group of contacts a count of contacts who are non members of the social networking service out of a total number of contacts in the distribution entity is displayed. A link is displayed the user may select the link to activate display of a roster of the non member contacts in the corresponding distribution entity. A drop down menu with emailing options is displayed. The user may select an emailing option from the drop down menu to control which contacts in the corresponding distribution entity will be sent an email sharing the post independently of sharing the post through content streams with contacts in the distribution entity who are members of the social networking service . In some embodiments the emailing options include sending an email sharing the post to just the contacts in the distribution entity that are non members not subscribers of the social networking service e.g. People not using Social Network sending an email sharing the post to everyone in the distribution entity e.g. Everyone in this circle and sending an email sharing the post to no one in the distribution entity e.g. No one in this circle .

In some embodiments if the distributive entity is an individual e.g. Tim Tam a checkbox is shown. The user checks the checkbox to confirm Tim Tam as a recipient for the email sharing the post or unchecks the checkbox to remove Tim Tam as a recipient for the email.

When the user has completed selecting the emailing options and recipient choices the user may select the submit button to save the selections or select the cancel button to discard any changes to the selections.

Returning to when the user has completed editing the post and adding removing icons from the sharing region i.e. completed editing the ACL the user may select the post button also herein called a post affordance to submit the post and the ACL to the social network server system . The social network server system shares the post in accordance with the ACL and if set the emailing options . In some embodiments the post D is added to the content stream of the post author as shown in . The post D also appears in the content streams of the contacts included in the distribution entities in the ACL. In some embodiments however one or more of the contacts in the distribution entities in the ACL may have established a filter that prevents a particular post from being included in the content streams presented to those contacts. In some embodiments the posts that appear in a respective user s content stream are selected and or ordered in accordance with multiple criteria. For example as described above when the best selector is selected the posts included in the user s content stream are also selected in accordance with predefined quality criteria thereby excluding posts having low estimated relevance to the user. As noted above the post may be emailed in accordance with a selected selector and the emailing options .

When the user selects the Third party service entity the user is prompted for authorization credentials for accessing a content feed e.g. a content stream associated with the user s account at the third party service. An example of a dialog box for entering the authorization credentials is illustrated in . A credentials dialog box may include a username field and a password field for entering the username and password respectively. The dialog box also includes a submit button for submitting the entered username or password and a cancel button for cancelling out of the dialog box . When the username and password is submitted the social network server system verifies the username and password with the third party service e.g. through an API . When the username and password is verified an icon J corresponding to the third party service is added to the sharing region as shown in .

In some embodiments the social networking service is a service provided for members of an organization or domain external to the social network server system e.g. within a private corporate network hereinafter domain for convenience . A user within the domain may be a member of the social networking service and may have within his social network contacts within the domain and contacts outside the domain. shows a XYZ Company icon K and a friends icon L displayed in the sharing region . The XYZ Company icon K corresponds to the domain to which the user belongs and within which the user is using the domain based social networking service. The XYZ Company icon K includes everyone in the XYZ Company domain. In some embodiments the user may add icons corresponding to sub groups within the XYZ Company domain to share content with a narrower set of contacts within the domain.

In some embodiments the user within the XYZ Company domain may also share content with contacts outside of the domain. For example the Friends icon L corresponds to a Friends circle that includes contacts outside of the domain. In some embodiments the Friends icon L is differentiated from the Friends icon A in a social networking service that is not domain specific by different coloring of the icons e.g. as represented by the vertical lines on the icon L or other visual indicia the differentiated visual presentation of the icons alerts the user of the need to use caution when sharing content with contacts outside of the domain for fear of exposing sensitive information .

In some embodiments when a mouse pointer or the like hovers over an icon an information pop up is displayed. The pop up displays information about the distribution entity corresponding to the hovered over icon . For example when a mouse pointer hovers over the Friends icon L a pop up is displayed. The pop up includes information about the distribution entity corresponding to the icon L including the name A of the distribution entity a count B of contacts in the entity if e.g. the entity is a social circle or a set of social circles and a description C of the entity. In some embodiments the pop up includes a View all link . When the View all link is selected a roster of the contacts in the distribution entity is displayed. Optionally the View all link is displayed only in pop ups for distribution entities that are not individual contacts.

In some embodiments when the social networking service is provided for a domain the user is in the domain and the distribution entity corresponding to the icon includes non member contacts the pop up includes a message alerting the user that the entity includes contacts outside of the domain. Additional example of entity information pop ups are described below with reference to .

In some embodiments when the user submits the post for posting and the sharing region includes a distribution entity that includes one or more contacts outside of the domain a posting confirmation dialog is displayed. The dialog warns the user that content is being shared with contacts outside of the domain and asks the user to confirm or cancel the posting in light of the warning.

As described above in some embodiments when a mouse pointer or the like hovers over an icon an information pop up is displayed. The pop up displays information about the distribution entity corresponding to the hovered over icon . illustrates additional examples of such information pop ups. A pop up may be displayed for an icon corresponding to a social circle. The pop up includes the name A contact count B a description C and a View all link . In some embodiments the description C is an abbreviated list of the contacts or a subset of the contacts in the social circle or more generally the distribution entity .

In some embodiments pop ups and are displayed for icons corresponding to the entities Extended network My circles and Anyone public on the web respectively. Each of these pop ups and include a name A and a description C.

In some embodiments pop up is displayed when a mouse pointer hovers over an icon corresponding to an individual contact who is a member of the social networking service. The pop up includes information on the contact such as circles in which the contact is a member mutual contacts with the user and status updates. The user may also access from the pop up one or more modalities for communicating with the user such as chat email and voice.

In some embodiments if the contact is not a member of the social networking service pop up or is displayed. Pop up includes an email address of the contact. In some implementations pop up or includes a link which when selected by a user activates sending of an invitation to the contact to join the social networking service at the email address of the contact. In some implementations if the contact s name is known pop up may be displayed. If the contact s name is not known pop up may be displayed instead.

The visibility preview includes an access control list that displays icons corresponding to the distribution entities that have permission to view the post C. In some embodiments the recipient list can initially include the distribution entities selected by the user in the sharing region for example . Similar to the sharing region the user is able to add and remove a distribution entity by clicking the remove buttons and the add link . A save button when selected saves any changes made to the visibility of the post C and closes the visibility preview . A cancel button when selected closes the visibility preview without saving changes.

In some embodiments an icon includes a graphic that visually indicates the type of distribution entity to which the icon corresponds. The graphic may be different for a personal circle a shared circle a domain and different types of groups e.g. anyone extended network my circles .

A client system concurrently displays a content item area and access control list information corresponding to an access control list of distribution entities . A user viewing a content stream in a social networking page may select a post input area in the page . When the post input area is selected a post region is expanded and displayed as in . The post region includes an input box the content item area and a sharing region where access control list information may be displayed. The access control list information includes icons corresponding to distribution entities that make up an access control list for a post.

In some embodiments a respective distribution entity corresponding to the displayed access control list information is represented by a displayed graphical object . A distribution entity in the access control list is represented by an icon displayed in the sharing region .

The client system receives from a user of the client system input in the content item area the input comprising a content item . The user may input a content item in the input box . The user may input for example a textual message e.g. a status update one or more photos a link to external content e.g. a web page or embed a video from an external source e.g. a video sharing site .

The client system presents to the client system user an affordance that enables the client system user to update the access control list to produce an updated access control list comprising one or more distribution entities at least one distribution entity of the one or more distribution entities corresponding to one or more recipient entities . An add link may be displayed in the sharing region . When the user selects the add link the user may add and or remove icons to from the sharing region to produce an updated access control list.

A distribution entity represented by an icon may be a social circle an individual or a group for example and correspond to one or more recipient entities. In some embodiments a respective recipient entity is an individual user e.g. a contact . Ultimately a distribution entity corresponds to at least one individual contact the contact may be the distribution entity when the entity is the individual contact or a member of a distribution entity e.g. when the entity is a social circle or a group .

In some embodiments the client system receives from the client system user input updating the access control list to produce an updated access control list . The user may update the access control list by adding and or removing icons to from the sharing region . As described above with reference to for example the user may select a distribution entity from a sharing menu or type in the name of a distribution entity and select a matching entity from an autocomplete menu .

In some embodiments prior to receiving the input updating the access control list the access control list is empty . The user populates the access control list by adding icons . In some other embodiments prior to receiving the input updating the access control list the access control list includes an initial access control list that includes one or more distribution entities represented by corresponding icons . In some embodiments the one or more distribution entities included in the initial access control list includes one or more distribution entities in an access control list associated with a most recent prior content item input by the client system user . That is the initial access control list is the same as the access control list for the last content post by the user.

The client system transmits the content item and access control list to a server system for storing the content item in conjunction with the access control list the server system enables access to the content item to one or more recipient entities in accordance with the access control list . When the user submits the post with the content item e.g. by selecting the post button the post and the access control list are transmitted to a social network server system and stored there e.g. at a data store . The social network server system makes the post available to one or more contacts in accordance with the access control list e.g. in content streams by email .

In some embodiments the content item is distributed from the server system to one or more of the recipient entities to whom access has been enabled . The post is distributed to contacts in the distribution entities in the access control list for the post. For example the post is shared with contacts in the distribution entities in respective content streams and or by email.

In some embodiments a respective distribution entity is a social circle having one or more recipient entities . In some circumstances the client system user is a member of a social network and the one or more recipient entities in the social circle include an individual user who is not a member of the social network . In some implementations distributing the content item from the server system includes sending an email message to the individual user who is not a member of the social network the email message including the content item or a location of the content item . As described above with reference to a social circle may be a default or a user created social circle and a social circle may be populated by the user with one or more contacts regardless of whether it is a default social circle or user created. A social circle may be added as a distribution entity to the access control list a corresponding icon e.g. A B or C is displayed in the sharing region . A social circle includes the user who is a member of the social networking service and one or more contacts zero or more of which are not members of the social networking service. If a social contact in the social circle is not a member of the social networking service the post may be shared with that contact by sending an email message including the post or at least a link to the post to that contact.

In some circumstances a respective distribution entity is a single recipient entity the client system user is a member of a social network and the single recipient entity is an individual user who is not a member of the social network . In some implementations distributing the content item from the server system comprises sending an email message to the individual user who is not a member of the social network the email message comprising the content item or a location of the content item . An individual contact may be added as a distributive entity e.g. icon D to the access control list. If the individual contact unlike the user authoring the post is not a member of the social networking service the post may be shared with that contact by sending an email message including the post or at least a link to the post to that contact.

In some circumstances the client system user is a member of a social network and a respective distribution entity is a social circle of one or more recipient entities . As described above the user authoring the post is a member of the social networking service and may have one or more associated social circles. A respective social circle may include one or more contacts and may be added as a distribution entity to the access control list.

In some circumstances the one or more recipient entities in the social circle include an individual user who is a member of the social network . In some circumstances the one or more recipient entities in the social circle include an individual user who is not a member of the social network . A contact in a social circle may be a member of the social networking service or not a social circle may include members and non members of the social networking service.

In some implementations the respective distribution entity is a set of one or more social circles each social circle having one or more recipient entities . A set of one or more social circles may be added as a distribution entity to the access control list as a shortcut to add multiple circles. For example icon E corresponds to My circles which represents the user s circles except for a Just following circle. By adding icon E to the sharing region the post is shared with contacts in the user s social circles without the user having to add to the sharing region an icon for each social circle individually.

In some embodiments a respective distribution entity includes one or more recipient entities associated with the client system user and one or more recipient entities associated with a respective recipient entity associated with the client system user . For example an extended network distribution entity e.g. Extended network icon F may be added to the access control list. The extended network includes the user s first and second degree contacts in the social network.

In some embodiments a respective distribution entity is a domain the domain including one or more recipient entities . As described above a social networking service may be provided for users in an organization or domain e.g. a private corporate network . The domain e.g. icon K may be added as a distributive entity to the access control list the domain distributive entity includes users in the domain.

In some embodiments a respective distribution entity is a single recipient entity the single recipient entity being an individual user . An individual contact may be added as a distributive entity to the access control list. For example Tim Tam icon D represents an individual contact.

In some circumstances the client system user and the individual user are both members of a social network . In some other circumstances the client system user is a member of a social network and the individual user is not a member of the social network . An individual contact as a distributive entity may be a member of the social networking service like the user authoring the post or a non member of the social networking service. Either type of contact may be a distributive entity in the access control list.

In some embodiments a respective distribution entity is a content feed associated with the client system user . A content feed e.g. a content stream in another social networking service a microblog consisting of short textual messages etc. associated with the user and provided by a third party service may be a distributive entity in the access control list. The post may be shared with the content feed i.e. posted in the content feed using one or more application programming interfaces APIs corresponding to the third party service. To get authorized access to the feed the client system receives from the client system user input providing credentials to access the content feed . When the user adds a third party service content feed to the access control list the user is prompted for login credentials for the third party service e.g. credentials dialog box . When the use submits the correct credentials the third party service is added as a distribution entity to the access control list.

In some embodiments a respective distribution entity includes one or more recipient entities associated with a specified geographical region . A user may add a geographic region e.g. a city as a distributive entity e.g. icon H to the access control list. The geographic region distributive entity may include contacts who listed in their respective profiles an association with the geographic region.

In some embodiments a respective distribution entity includes one or more recipient entities associated with a specified institution . A user may add an institution e.g. a university a company an organization as a distributive entity e.g. icon I to the access control list. The institution distributive entity may include contacts who listed in their respective profiles an affiliation e.g. a current or former employee a current or former student with the institution.

For situations in which the systems discussed above collect information about users the users may be provided with an opportunity to opt in out of programs or features that may collect personal information e.g. information about a user s preferences or a user s contributions to social content providers . In addition in some examples certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be anonymized so that the personally identifiable information cannot be determined or associated for the user and so that identified user preferences or user interactions are generalized for example generalized based on user demographics rather than associated with a particular user.

Although some of various drawings illustrate a number of logical stages in a particular order stages which are not order dependent may be reordered and other stages may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular uses contemplated. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the claims to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings.

