---

title: Method and apparatus for providing an application engine based on real-time commute activity
abstract: An approach is provided for an application engine (e.g., a gaming engine) based on real-time location-based data. In one embodiment, an application engine determines one or more location-based data sources associated with at least one device. The one or more location-based data sources are determined in at least substantially real-time while the at least one device is engaged in at least one travel activity. The application engine then determines one or more elements of an application engine based, at least in part, on the one or more location-based data sources. The application engine causes, at least in part, a presentation of the one or more elements at the least one device during the at least one travel activity. In one embodiment, the application engine also causes, at least in part, a transformation of the one or more map data elements based, at least in part, on the one or more location-based data sources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473893&OS=09473893&RS=09473893
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09473893
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20150807
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 669 116 filed Nov. 5 2012 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of development has been related to location based services e.g. mapping navigation geo tagged or location based data hyper local searches etc. which has resulted in a growing variety of location related services and applications available to users. For example users commonly employ navigation services e.g. via in vehicle navigation systems personal navigation devices mobile devices etc. when commuting or otherwise engaging in travel related activities. However when engaged in such navigation or other location based services users can become engaged with the services at the expense of interactivity with other users. As a result service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical to providing location based services and or applications that support commute or travel activities while also increasing a sense of interactivity with other users as well as the commute or travel environment.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for providing an application engine or platform e.g. a gaming engine whose elements or mechanics e.g. game play mechanics reflect real time location based data determined during commute or travel activities.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining one or more location based data sources associated with at least one device. The one or more location based data sources are determined in at least substantially real time while the at least one device is engaged in at least one travel activity. The method also comprises determining one or more elements of an application engine based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources. The method further comprises causing at least in part a presentation of the one or more elements at the least one device during the at least one travel activity. In one embodiment the method further comprises causing at least in part a transformation of one or more map data elements based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine one or more location based data sources associated with at least one device. The one or more location based data sources are determined in at least substantially real time while the at least one device is engaged in at least one travel activity. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more elements of an application engine based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources. The apparatus is further caused to present the one or more elements at the least one device during the at least one travel activity. In one embodiment the apparatus is further caused to transform one or more map data elements based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of one or more location logs to determine one or more location based data sources associated with at least one device. The one or more location based data sources are determined in at least substantially real time while the at least one device is engaged in at least one travel activity. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more elements of an application engine based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources. The apparatus is further caused to present the one or more elements at the least one device during the at least one travel activity. In one embodiment the apparatus is further caused to transform one or more map data elements based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining one or more location based data sources associated with at least one device. The one or more location based data sources are determined in at least substantially real time while the at least one device is engaged in at least one travel activity. The apparatus also comprises means for determining one or more elements of an application engine based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a presentation of the one or more elements at the least one device during the at least one travel activity. In one embodiment the apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a transformation of the one or more map data elements based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing a method of any of the claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing an application engine based on real time commute activity are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Although various embodiments are discussed with respect to location based data sources determined during commute activity it is contemplated that the various embodiments are also applicable to any travel related activity even if the travel is not related to regular travel patterns determined from commute activities. In addition although various embodiments are discussed with respect to an application engine that is a gaming engine or platform it is contemplated that the various embodiments are also applicable to any type of application engine that uses or relates to location based data including for instance applications for modeling location based data consuming geo tagged media data productivity applications that use location based data and the like.

To address this challenge a system of introduces the capability to provide an application engine that is affected by live location based data sources collected as users travel or commute. In one embodiment the system provides an application engine platform where the application mechanics e.g. game play mechanics in the case of a gaming engine are affected e.g. in substantially real time by live telematics e.g. in vehicle telematics data live navigation data e.g. routing information estimated time of arrival etc. real world factors e.g. weather local events etc. human behavior e.g. user behavior or behavior of other users nearby . As used herein the term substantially real time refers making the application engine reflect real time data sources as they are collected or within a sufficiently short period of time as to give the user the appearance application engine is responding to a real time event as the event is happening. Accordingly the system enables an immersive application or gaming experience while reflecting or maintaining a connection to real world experiences as they occur along a commute or other travel activity.

In one example use case in the context of a gaming engine children traveling e.g. commuting with their parents can become active and engaged passengers by following along with a visually themed map in a gaming application. For example the system provides for transformation multiple content layers including streets roads traffic weather true clock calendar information car onboard telematics data navigation data terrain and the like so that they can be incorporated into the gaming engine. In one embodiment as the map or terrain changes during the commute the system dynamically transforms the underlying map data e.g. map data normally presented in a navigation application according to a theme or motif appropriate for the game. Game events or game mechanics can then be determined based on the location or the commute s progress. For example the system can trigger game events by points or interests along the commute path or when the parent or child taps on objects on the path. In one embodiment the game events or objects e.g. application elements are determined by the actual location and environment of the user during the commute.

In one embodiment the application events or mechanics may relate to providing additional content to supplement the application or game play in the case of gaming applications . For example the additional content may include relevant annotations e.g. providing descriptions of landmarks or other points of interest advertising or promotional information e.g. discounts on related products or services and the like. In one embodiments the additional content may include user created content such as user created points of interest POI data e.g. application specific or real world POI data user created application game data e.g. additional game items such as treasure as well as tracking information e.g. GPS and live game data for friends of the user.

In one embodiment external factors e.g. determine from real time or substantially real time location based data sources that affect game play include but are not limited to speed location weather traffic estimated time to destination etc. In one embodiment the system provides a continuous and immersive adaptation of real world location based data into the application or gaming context. In other embodiments the system enables multi user e.g. multi player interaction between game participants ranging from large groups of users e.g. communities of online game players to closer knit interaction between parent and child traveling together. For example parent child interaction may include the parent triggering game or application events so that the child may engage with those events in the gaming application. As a result rather than having the child remain immersed solely in the game the system encourages parent child interaction during the commute or travel through this interactivity scheme.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UEs also collectively referred to as UEs having connectivity to an application engine e.g. a gaming engine or platform via a communication network . In one embodiment the application engine can assimilate multiple disparate live data sources into a live location based data model that can affect application mechanics e.g. game play mechanics as the locations of the UEs change e.g. during a commute or other travel activity . For example affecting application mechanics may include determining what functions or operations to invoke or make available as well as determining the user interface e.g. visual audio characteristics modes of interaction etc. of the application.

By way of example the disparate live or real time location based data sources include but are not limited to a telematics data source b service data sources also collectively referred to as service data sources of the service platform and or services also collectively referred to as services c user log associated with the location based application provider d geographic database or e a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the telematics data source includes both in vehicle telematics and navigation information associated with the UE . For example the telematics data source can include traffic conditions of the current path of the UE as well as routing navigation information such as distance to location time remaining to destination path to destination speed of travel and the like. Other types of data provided by the telematics data source vehicle direction orientation e.g. including pitch yaw and altitude and driving behavior. In one embodiment the system determines the telematics data in the telematics data source from one or more sensors also collectively referred to as sensors of the UE e.g. accelerometers GPS sensors compass sensor etc. . In addition the system may determine the telematics data by interfacing with a vehicle e.g. a car via an OBD II connection through operation of location based applications also collectively referred to as location based applications such as a navigation or mapping application or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment service data sources include location based data generated by the service platform and or the services . By way of example the services may provide real time data such as current weather conditions local news events geo tagged media e.g. geo tagged photographs or videos etc. In another embodiment the services may include social networking services. Accordingly the service data sources may include location information e.g. locations routes paths etc. for friends collected through the social networking services or other location check in tracking services. It is contemplated that the services and resulting service data sources may include any type of service data that may provide location based information and or other contextual information that are associated with the location navigation paths commute or travel of the UEs .

In one embodiment the user log provides information on user behavior profile and or preferences collected for instance by the location based application provider from user interactions with applications and or games executed on the UEs e.g. interactions or behaviors determined during game play . In one embodiment the interactions may include multi user interaction such as when playing multi player games or when a parent configures game play mechanics for a child playing a game or using an application. By way of example the location based application provider may include developers distributors publishers etc. associated with a particular application. In addition or alternatively the location based application provider may be an operator of an online application store or other application repository. In one embodiment the user log also includes profile information such as a user s age gender grade birth date language address key destinations hobbies likes dislikes favorite characters etc. In some embodiments the location based application provider may operate an online store where users may purchase virtual items or goods that can be presented by the application engine in the corresponding application or game. By way of example the virtual items or goods that are purchased become part of the elements of the application that can be processed by the application engine .

In one embodiment other types of contextual information associated with the UE s location and or associated users may be used by the system to affect application mechanics or other application elements. For example such contextual information may include time of day day of week seasons upcoming holidays upcoming special events user calendar information etc.

In one embodiment the geographic database includes map data that can be used determine application elements. For example the map data may include a street type e.g. road dirt road bike path freeway tool roads etc. terrain features e.g. rivers oceans lakes mountains hills etc. street width e.g. including number of lanes city block information e.g. dimension orientation density etc. city information e.g. population urban vs. rural etc. points of interest and the like. For example during game play by passing a point of interest such as a gas station restaurant or other landmarks a player can increase his or her power or earn game points.

As discussed above the system assimilates these real time location based data sources and determines how the sources can affect application elements and or mechanics. In one embodiment the system presents the application elements and or mechanics to the user via application engine clients also collectively referred to as application engine clients of the UEs . By way of example the application engine clients can be a standalone application or game. In some embodiments the application engine client can be a separate component of executing on the UEs to provide one or more functions described with respect to the application engine . In another embodiment the application engine client may perform all or a portion of the functions of the application engine . In yet another embodiment the application engine client may work cooperatively with the application engine to offload or balance the resource burdens associated with the performing application and or gaming functions.

In one embodiment to provide for interactivity among users the system e.g. via the application engine also enables one user to control or affect application elements for presentation to another user. For example if a parent e.g. a first user is traveling with a child e.g. a second user and the child is playing a location based game supported by the application engine the parent can provide input that can affect the child s game play. In one embodiment the parent can provide the input e.g. as voice commands or as input via another UE with connectivity to the application engine during game play or pre configure the input before game play begins. In other embodiments the system may support interactivity among multiple users and or players as part of a larger application or gaming community. For example interactivity is not limited to single families or groups traveling together instead it is contemplated that the various embodiments described herein are applicable to environments such as a Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game MMORPG environment or other environments with large numbers or participating users. In these environments the application engine receives real time location based data from large groups of users for determining how the users are to be represented in the application or game world and for how the users interact with elements of the application or game world.

In another embodiment the application engine can monitor a user s progress in an application or game. In this way the application engine can report the program from one user to another user. For example if a child is playing a game and achieves a location based accomplishment in the game e.g. find a treasure achieve a score etc. the application engine can report the information along with location information to another user e.g. a remotely located parent grandparent etc. . In some embodiments a user s progress can be tracked on a leaderboard or other scoreboard. In one embodiment the leaderboard can be based on characteristics of the users such as age grade location language state country difficult level etc.

In one embodiment the functions of the application engine include providing transformations of map data elements in response to the real time location based data sources. For example map transformations may include altering the physical appearance of map tiles or other map data elements to confirm with motifs or themes determined by the application engine.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network e.g. Bluetooth wireless fidelity WiFi worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX near field communication NFC etc. or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE and the application engine communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the application engine client and the application engine can interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process can also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

In one embodiment the road segment data records are links or segments representing roads streets or paths. The node data records are end points corresponding to the respective links or segments of the road segment data records . The road link data records and the node data records represent a road network such as used by vehicles cars and or other entities. Alternatively the geographic database contains path segment and node data records or other data that represent pedestrian paths or areas in addition to or instead of the vehicle road record data.

The road link segments and nodes may be associated with attributes such as geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and other navigation related attributes as well as POIs such as gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks etc. The geographic database may include data about the POIs and their respective locations in the POI data records . The geographic database may also include data about places such as cities towns or other communities and other geographic features such as bodies of water mountain ranges etc. Such place or feature data may be part of the POI data or may be associated with POIs or POI data such as a data point used for displaying or representing a position of a city . In addition the geographic database may include data about location based events and their respective locations in the event data records . By way of example the location based events include any type of event that is associated with a particular location including for instance traffic accidents construction public gatherings etc.

The geographic database may be maintained by a service e.g. a map developer . For example the map developer can collect geographic data to generate and enhance the database . There are different ways used by the map developer to collect data. These ways include obtaining data from other sources such as municipalities or respective geographic authorities. In addition the map developer may employ field personnel to travel by vehicle along roads throughout the geographic region to observe features and or record information about them. Also remote sensing such as aerial or satellite photography may be used.

The geographic database may be a master geographic database stored in a format that facilitates updating maintenance and development. For example the master geographic database or data in the master geographic database is in an Oracle spatial format or other spatial format such as for development or production purposes. The Oracle spatial format or development production database may be compiled into a delivery format such as a GDF format. The data in the production and or delivery formats may be compiled or further compiled to form geographic database products or databases which may be used in end user navigation devices or systems.

For example geographic data is compiled such as into a PSF format to organize and or configure the data for performing navigation related functions and or services such as route calculation route guidance map display speed calculation distance and travel time functions and other functions by a navigation device. The navigation related functions may correspond to vehicle navigation pedestrian navigation or other types of navigation. The compilation to produce the end user databases may be performed by a party or entity separate from the map developer. For example a customer of the map developer such as a navigation device developer or other end user device developer may perform compilation on a received geographic database in a delivery format to produce one or more compiled navigation databases.

As mentioned above the database may be a master geographic database but in alternate embodiments the database may represent a compiled navigation database that may be used in or with end user devices e.g. UEs to provide navigation related functions. For example the database may be used with the end user device to provide an end user with navigation features or for interaction with the application engine . In such a case the database may be downloaded or stored on the end user device or the end user device may access the database through a wireless or wired connection such as via a server and or network .

In one embodiment the end user device or UE is an in vehicle navigation system a personal navigation device PND a portable navigation device a cellular telephone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a watch a camera a computer and or other device that can perform navigation related functions such as digital routing and map display. In one embodiment the navigation device is a cellular telephone. An end user may use the device for navigation functions such as guidance and map display as well as to access application supported by the application engine .

In one embodiment the control logic executes one or more algorithms for performing one or more functions of the application engine . For example the control logic interacts with the data assimilation module to determine and or process real time data sources available to the UE . In one embodiment the real time data sources include the telematics data source the service data sources the user log and the geographic database . In one embodiment the data assimilation module includes interfaces e.g. hardware and or software interfaces for connecting to the real time data sources . For example if the data assimilation function of the application engine is local to the UE the data assimilation module may include one or more hardware interfaces application programming interfaces e.g. APIs for obtaining real time data from for instance the sensors of the UE .

In another embodiment the data assimilation module includes application programming interfaces for accessing the service data sources via the service platform and or services . For example if a service provides weather data for a given location the data assimilation module can query or request the weather information from the service via an API call. Moreover in some embodiments the data assimilation module can use the location information e.g. GPS location data of the UE e.g. from the telematics data source to obtain weather information for the appropriate real time locations of one or more UEs e.g. corresponding to users or players of the application game . Similarly the data assimilation module can interface with any other type of service e.g. social networking services geo tagged media services event services news services etc. to obtain real time data and or contextual information with respect to the location of the UEs . In one embodiment the data assimilation module may obtain the real time data from the real time data sources continuously periodically according to a schedule on demand or a combination thereof.

After obtaining the real time location the data assimilation module interacts with the application element module to determine what elements of the application engine are to be affected by the real time data. In one embodiment the elements of the application engine include at least in part application mechanics e.g. game play mechanics application functions e.g. what functions to enable or disable depending on the real time data application user interface e.g. audio visual themes and assets modes of interaction such as touch voice image recognition etc. and the like application data e.g. what data sources or models to use and or any other application asset of the application engine and or the applications employing the application engine . Specific types of elements and their dependence on real time data are further described below with respect to the flowcharts of and the user interface examples of .

In one embodiment the application element module may determine that transformations of map data elements are needed to reflect the real time data sources . In this case the application element module interacts with the map transformation module to perform the map transformation process. By way of example the application engine may be a gaming engine that is basing is its game play world on real world mapping information e.g. map tiles from a mapping . To fit the theme or motif of the application or game the map transformation module for instance may use a rule based engine to determine how to transform various map attributes or elements e.g. streets freeways one way roads rivers bike paths driveways parking lots points of interest terrain features etc. into a game or application world. For example a game with a fantasy theme may transform office buildings into castles restaurants in to food caches etc. In one embodiment the transformations and the rules for performing the transformations may be defined by an application developer.

In one embodiment the interaction module of the application engine enables multiple users and or players to interact with the application engine to determine what application elements to affect and or otherwise transform for presentation to the users. Accordingly the interaction module enables users to determine what application elements e.g. what game play mechanics features etc. to present to other users. This user to user interaction can be more engaging to the participating parties. For example as described above a parent driving a car with a child playing a game can interact with the child s game by giving input or commands to determine when how where etc. to present elements of the game. For example the parent may provide a surprise treasure or may clear attacking monsters if the game difficulty is too high for a child. In an MMORPG or large user community environment groups of users may provide input for determining what elements to present to the specific users or the community of users as a whole.

In one embodiment the interaction module also enables sharing and reporting of achievements by a user or player to another user. For example a child may share a report with a remote parent or grandparent that he or she has completed a particularly difficult level or has encountered an unusual item or artifact along a particular route. In some embodiments the report may be accompanied with location information of where the report or achievement occurred. In this way the report can also serve a location tracking and reporting function for the remote parent grandparent or other user.

In step the application engine determines one or more location based data sources associated with at least one device e.g. UE . In one embodiment the one or more location based data sources are determined in at least substantially real time while the at least one device is engaged in at least one travel activity e.g. commuting . In one embodiment the one or more location based data sources include navigation information telematics information location contextual information user contextual information local event information social networking information or combination thereof.

In step the application engine determines one or more elements of an application engine based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources. In one embodiment the application engine includes at least in part a gaming engine. In another embodiment the one or more elements include at least in part one or more elements of game play mechanics. In one embodiment the application engine may have rules e.g. designated or defined by an application developer that specify what elements are affected by what real time data source. For example rules may specify that weather data can affect both the rendering of weather effects in the game as well as the performance characteristics of items in the game. For example torches or fire related items may not be as effective or may last for a shorter duration when the real time weather indicates that it is raining at the UE s location.

In step the application engine causes at least in part a presentation of the one or more elements at the least one device during the at least one travel activity. In one embodiment the presentation of the one or more elements is in a mapping user interface. In another embodiment the one or more elements include at least in part one or more map data elements. For example game play maps can be used to replicate real time maps of the location in which the UE or the user is traveling.

In one embodiment the application engine determines navigation information telematics information or a combination thereof from the one or more location based data sources. The application engine then processes and or facilitates a processing of the navigation information the telematics information or a combination thereof to determine an estimated time of arrival among one or more locations routing information or a combination thereof. The application engine then determines a duration for interacting with the application engine one or more applications employing the application engine or a combination thereof based at least in part on the estimated time of arrival the routing information or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the presentation is based at least in part on the determined duration. For example if navigation information estimates a time of arrival at a destination at 15 minutes the application engine may provide for game play that is intended to also last for 15 minutes. In this way the user can expect to complete game play by the time the destination is reached. For example when commuting to school game play for children can be tailored so that the game can be completed or come a suitable stopping point on reaching the school.

In step the application engine determines the map elements that are to be transformed. In one embodiment the application engine determines a user location navigation information e.g. destination waypoints routes etc. to identify what map elements e.g. map tiles points of interest etc. should be identified for processing. In one embodiment the application engine can use the current location information as well as make predictions of what map elements are likely to be needed given for instance historical travel patterns current trajectory intended trip purpose time of day day of week season etc.

In step the application engine processes and or facilitates a processing of the real time data sources to determine real time data for transforming the map elements. In one embodiment the one or more location based data sources include navigation information telematics information location contextual information user contextual information local event information social networking information or combination thereof. In one embodiment the real time data can be updated continuously periodically according to a schedule on demand or a combination thereof.

In step the application engine causes at least in part a transformation of the one or more map data elements based at least in part on the one or more location based data sources. In one embodiment the application engine determines the transformation based at least in part on a one or more motifs associated with the application engine one or more applications employing the application engine or a combination thereof b a type a dimension a structure a point of interest or a combination thereof associated with the one or more map data elements or c one or more transformation rules or d a combination thereof. For example each application or game executing via the application engine may specify different motifs themes or media assets e.g. graphics sounds files etc. to reflect game play. In some embodiments the user may select a theme or motif for the application or game.

One aspect of traditional commuting or travel is that even when traveling in groups when one user engages in an immersive application or game that user tends to become disconnected from other users in the same travel group or vehicle. For example parents may find that their child becomes detached and less engaged with the parent when the child is engaged in a game. The application engine addresses these concerns by providing interaction mechanisms among multiple users or players. In one embodiment the interaction mechanisms are also applicable large user communities such as MMORPG environments.

In step the application engine determines an input from a first user for specifying one or more elements of the application engine that are to be affected. In this use case the first user e.g. a parent can provide input to the application engine that will cause a corresponding interaction with a second user e.g. a child using an application. For example in a gaming application a parent may specify when items are to appear or what functions to invoke in the child s game play. The parent for instance may e.g. through voice command or through another device make a character roar or move in the game application or invoke any other function of the application.

In one embodiment a voice command may be issue directly to the UE of the child if the microphone on the UE is active an able to capture the voice input. In another embodiment the voice command may be issued via short range wireless connectivity e.g. Bluetooth over a headset or in car hands free system. In another embodiment the parent or first user may issue a command via the parent s own device. The parent s device may then connect to the child s device e.g. directly via peer to peer or over a server to transmit the command.

In another embodiment the first user or parent may preplan the game configuration before the trip. For example the parent may configure game parameters for the child at the same time a route is entered in a navigation system e.g. an in vehicle navigation system personal navigation device etc. .

In step the application engine causes the presentation of the one or more elements is for a second user interacting with the at least one device. In one embodiment depending on the application the elements may be presented on issuing of the command. In other embodiments the application engine can queue the elements and present them when appropriate to the child or second user.

As another form of interaction the application engine enables a sharing of achievements or other interactions among users. For example in step the application engine determines one or more interactions with one or more elements of the application engine by a first user. In this example the interaction can be any type of activity performed by the first user e.g. a child during game play. The interaction for instance can include capturing an item or creature reaching a particular level discovering hidden treasure etc. In one embodiment the application engine records the interaction and enables the first user to share the interaction with a second user. By way of example the second user e.g. a parent grandparent friend etc. can be in the same vehicle nearby or located remotely.

In step the application engine causes at least in part a transmission of one or more reports of the one or more interactions to a second user. In one embodiment the reports of the interactions may be geo tagged or may reference specific locations. In this way the reports serve as confirmation of the first user s e.g. a child s location . For example if the child is commuting to school reports of achievements occurring along the child s normal route to school can serve as additional assurance that the child is on his or her normal route to school.

As shown in the game user interface also includes a section that presents real time data that can affect game play. For example section displays the actual speed of the user e.g. 25 MPH the time left to the destination e.g. 15 mins and the current weather condition around the user e.g. cold . As shown the application engine can render snowflakes to represent the cold weather. In addition the cold weather can be used to determine what power or characteristics the user possesses as well as what potential creatures the user may encounter in the gaming world. In addition the application engine can use the time left e.g. 15 mins information to structure game play so that the game can be completed within the available time. Similarly the application engine can use the actual speed of navigation e.g. 25 MPH to determine the characteristics of the user s eagle . Other real time conditions such as traffic not shown can be used to affect game play e.g. more traffic may make it more difficult to fight other creatures in the game .

In one embodiment treasure can be hidden in the environment for the user to discover. By way of example the treasure can be specified or hidden by other users such as other players or parents as described above. In cases where another player is nearby the application engine can render another eagle to represent that player in the game user interface .

In another embodiment the application engine can employ a map transform algorithm to determine what type of terrain to transform a city block e.g. city block of . In one embodiment the map transform algorithm can be based on game type dimensions of the city block building structure present on the city block landmarks user customizable POIs traffic conditions and the like. In this case because city block is nearly empty the application engine transforms the city block into a park of equal size to the city block . As previously discussed the application engine can use a rule based algorithm for determining how specific map elements e.g. the city block are to be transformed.

In addition the game user interface is an interactive and immersive experience whereby tapping or otherwise interacting with elements e.g. treasure creatures food etc. can present side challenges presented through game play user interfaces.

The processes described herein for providing an application engine based on real time location based data may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing an application engine based on real time location based data. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing an application engine based on real time location based data. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing an application engine based on real time location based data is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing an application engine based on real time location based data to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide an application engine based on real time location based data. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing an application engine based on real time location based data. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide an application engine based on real time location based data. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

