---

title: System and method for metadata transfer among search entities
abstract: A new approach is proposed that contemplates systems and methods to ascribe or transfer metadata from one search-related entity to another, where each entity can be one of subject or source, citation, and object or target. First, one or more complete or incomplete attributes associated with one or more of entities across source, citation and target are identified with a high degree of probable accuracy, wherein such metadata or attributes include but are not limited to, time, language, and location of the entities. The identified attributes are then ascribed or transferred from one entity where the metadata is available to other search entities. Finally, the transferred attributes can be utilized to facilitate the selection and ranking of the cited targets for the search result.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600586&OS=09600586&RS=09600586
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09600586
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150804
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 160 082 filed Jun. 14 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 354 562 filed Jun. 14 2010 and entitled A system and method for metadata transfer for search entities and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 160 082 is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 895 593 filed Sep. 30 2010 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 991 725. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 160 082 is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 628 791 filed Dec. 1 2009 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 688 701. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 160 082 is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 628 801 filed Dec. 1 2009 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 244 664.

Knowledge is increasingly more germane to our exponentially expanding information based society. Perfect knowledge is the ideal that participants seek to assist in decision making and for determining preferences affinities and dislikes. Practically perfect knowledge about a given topic is virtually impossible to obtain unless the inquirer is the source of all of information about such topic e.g. autobiographer . Armed with more information decision makers are generally best positioned to select a choice that will lead to a desired outcome result e.g. which restaurant to go to for dinner . However as more information is becoming readily available through various electronic communications modalities e.g. the Internet one is left to sift through what is amounting to a myriad of data to obtain relevant and more importantly trust worthy information to assist in decision making activities. Although there are various tools e.g. search engines community boards with various ratings there lacks any indicia of personal trustworthiness e.g. measure of the source s reputation and or influence with located data.

Currently a person seeking to locate information to assist in a decision to determine an affinity and or identify a dislike can leverage traditional non electronic data sources e.g. personal recommendations which can be few and can be biased and or electronic data sources such as web sites bulletin boards blogs and other sources to locate sometimes rated data about a particular topic subject e.g. where to stay when visiting San Francisco . Such an approach is time consuming and often unreliable as with most of the electronic data there lacks an indicia of trustworthiness of the source of the information. Failing to find a plethora or spot on information from immediate non electronic and or electronic data source s the person making the inquiry is left to make the decision using limited information which can lead to less than perfect predictions of outcomes results and can lead to low levels of satisfaction undertaking one or more activities for which information was sought.

Current practices also do not leverage trustworthiness of information or stated differently attribute a value to the influence of the source of data e.g. referral . With current practices the entity seeking the data must make a value judgment on the influence of the data source. Such value judgment is generally based on previous experiences with the data source e.g. rely on Mike s restaurant recommendations as he is a chef and Laura s hotel recommendations in Europe as she lived and worked in Europe for 5 years . Unless the person making the inquiry has an extensive network of references from which to rely to obtain desired data needed to make a decision most often the person making the decision is left to take a risk or roll the dice based on best available non attributed non reputed data. Such a prospect often leads certain participants from not engaging in a contemplated activity. Influence accrued by persons in such a network of references is subjective. In other words influence accrued by persons in such a network of references appear differently to each other person in the network as each person s opinion is formed by their own individual networks of trust.

Real world trust networks follow a small world pattern that is where everyone is not connected to everyone else directly but most people are connected to most other people through a relatively small number of intermediaries or connectors . Accordingly this means that some individuals within the network may disproportionately influence the opinion held by other individuals. In other words some people s opinions may be more influential than other people s opinions.

As referred to herein influence is provided for augmenting reputation which may be subjective. In some embodiments influence is provided as an objective measure. For example influence can be useful in filtering opinions information and data. It will be appreciated that reputation and influence provide unique advantages in accordance with some embodiments for the ranking of individuals or products or services of any type in any means or form. In addition it would also be desirable if information attributes or metadata associated with one entity can be shared with other related entities in order to be able to identify relevant entities during search.

The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

The approach is illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. It should be noted that references to an or one or some embodiment s in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

A new approach is proposed that contemplates systems and methods to ascribe or transfer metadata from one search related entity to another where each entity can be one of subject or source citation and object or target. As referred to hereinafter each source or subject can be but is not limited to an internet author or user of social media services that cites a target or object which can be but is not limited to Internet web sites blogs videos books films music image video documents data files etc. Each citation may describe for a non limiting example an opinion by a source on a target or object. Each citation can be but is not limited to a Tweet a blog post and a review of objects on an Internet web site. First one or more complete or incomplete attributes associated with one or more of entities across source citation and target are identified with a high degree of probable accuracy wherein such metadata or attributes include but are not limited to time language and location of the entities. The identified attributes are then ascribed or transferred from one entity where the metadata is available to other search entities. Finally the transferred attributes can be utilized to facilitate the selection and ranking of the cited targets for the search result.

An illustrative implementation of systems and methods described herein in accordance with some embodiments includes a citation graph as shown in . In the example of the citation graph comprises a plurality of citations each describing an opinion of the object by a source subject . The nodes entities in the citation graph are characterized into two categories 1 subjects capable of having an opinion or creating making citations in which expression of such opinion is explicit expressed implicit or imputed through any other technique and 2 objects cited by citations about which subjects have opinions or make citations. Each subject or object in graph represents an influential entity once an influence score for that node has been determined or estimated. More specifically each subject may have an influence score indicating the degree to which the subject s opinion influences other subjects and or a community of subjects and each object may have an influence score indicating the collective opinions of the plurality of subjects citing the object.

In some embodiments subjects representing any entities or sources that make citations may correspond to one or more of the following 

In some embodiments some subjects authors who create the citations can be related to each other for a non limiting example via an influence network or community and influence scores can be assigned to the subjects based on their authorities in the influence network.

In some embodiments objects cited by the citations may correspond to one or more of the following Internet web sites blogs videos books films music image video documents data files objects for sale objects that are reviewed or recommended or cited subjects authors natural or legal persons citations or any entities that are or may be associated with a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or any form of product or service or information of any means or form for which a representation has been made.

In some embodiments the links or edges of the citation graph represent different forms of association between the subject nodes and the object nodes such as citations of objects by subjects . For non limiting examples citations can be created by authors citing targets at some point of time and can be one of link description keyword or phrase by a source subject pointing to a target subject or object . Here citations may include one or more of the expression of opinions on objects expressions of authors in the form of Tweets blog posts reviews of objects on Internet web sites Wikipedia entries postings to social media such as Twitter or Jaiku postings to websites postings in the form of reviews recommendations or any other form of citation made to mailing lists newsgroups discussion forums comments to websites or any other form of Internet publication.

In some embodiments citations can be made by one subject regarding an object such as a recommendation of a website or a restaurant review and can be treated as representation an expression of opinion or description. In some embodiments citations can be made by one subject regarding another subject such as a recommendation of one author by another and can be treated as representing an expression of trustworthiness. In some embodiments citations can be made by certain object regarding other objects wherein the object is also a subject.

In some embodiments citation can be described in the format of subject citation description object timestamp type . Citations can be categorized into various types based on the characteristics of subjects authors objects targets and citations themselves. Citations can also reference other citations. The reference relationship among citations is one of the data sources for discovering influence network.

In the example of the system includes at least citation search engine influence evaluation engine and object selection engine . As used herein the term engine refers to software firmware hardware or other component that is used to effectuate a purpose. The engine will typically include software instructions that are stored in non volatile memory also referred to as secondary memory . When the software instructions are executed at least a subset of the software instructions is loaded into memory also referred to as primary memory by a processor. The processor then executes the software instructions in memory. The processor may be a shared processor a dedicated processor or a combination of shared or dedicated processors. A typical program will include calls to hardware components such as I O devices which typically requires the execution of drivers. The drivers may or may not be considered part of the engine but the distinction is not critical.

In the example of each of the engines can run on one or more hosting devices hosts . Here a host can he a computing device a communication device a storage device or any electronic device capable of running a software component. For non limiting examples a computing device can be but is not limited to a laptop PC a desktop PC a tablet PC an iPod as iPhone iPad Google s Android device a PDA or a server machine. A storage device can be but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash memory drive or any portable storage device. A communication device can be but is not limited to a mobile phone.

In the example of citation search engine influence evaluation engine and object selection engine each has a communication interface not shown which is a software component that enables the engines to communicate with each other following certain communication protocols such as TCP IP protocol over one or more communication networks not shown . Here the communication networks can be but are not limited to internet intranet wide area network WAN local area network LAN wireless network Bluetooth WiFi and mobile communication network. The physical connections of the network and the communication protocols are well known to those of skill in the art.

In the example of citation search engine enables a citation search process which unlike the classical web search approaches that is object target centric and focuses only on the relevance of the objects to the searching criteria the search process adopted by citation search engine is citation centric focusing on influence of the citing subjects that cite the objects. In addition the classical web search retrieves and ranks objects based on attributes of the objects while the proposed search approach adds citation and subject author dimensions. The extra metadata associated with subjects citations and objects provide better ranking capability richer functionality and higher efficiency for the searches.

In some embodiments the citation search query request processed by citation search engine may accept and enforce various criteria terms on citation searching retrieving and ranking each of which can either be explicitly described by a user or best guessed by the system based on internal statistical data. Such criteria include but are not limited to.

In the example of influence evaluation engine calculates influence scores of entities subjects and or objects wherein such influence scores can be used to determine at least in part in combination with other methods and systems the ranking of any subset of objects obtained from a plurality of citations from citation search results.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine measures influence and reputation of subjects that compose the plurality of citations citing the plurality of objects on dimensions that are related to for non limiting examples one or more of the specific topic or objects e.g. automobiles or restaurants cited by the subjects or form of citations e.g. a weblog or Wikipedia entry or news article or Twitter feed or search terms e.g. key words or phrases specified in order to define a subset of all entities that match the search term s in which a subset of the ranked entities are made available based on selection criteria such as the rank date or time or geography location associated with the entity and or any other selection criteria.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine determines an influence score for a first subject or source at least partly based on how often a first subject is cited or referenced by a another second subject s . Here each of the first or the second subject can be but is not limited to an internet author or user of social media services while each citation describes reference by the second subject to a citation of an object by the first subject. The number of the citations or the citation score of the first subject by the second subjects is computed and the influence of the second subjects citing the first subject can also be optionally taken into account in the citation score. For a non limiting example the influence score of the first subject is computed as a function of some or all of the number of citations of the first subject by second subjects a score for each such citation and the influence score of the second subjects. Once computed the influence of the first subject as reflected by the count of citations or citation score of the first subject or subject can be displayed to the user at a location associated with the first subject such as the profile page of the first subject together with a list of the second subjects citing the first subjects which can be optionally ranked by the influences of the second subject.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine allows for the attribution of influence on subjects to data sources e.g. sources of opinions data or referrals to be estimated and distributed propagated based on the citation graph . More specifically an entity can be directly linked to any number of other entities on any number of dimensions in the citation graph with each link possibly having an associated score. For a non limiting example a path on a given dimension between two entities such as a subject and an object includes a directed or an undirected link from the source to an intermediate entity prefixed to a directed or undirected path from the intermediate entity to the object in the same or possibly a different dimension.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine estimates the influence of each entity as the count of actual requests for data opinion or searches relating to or originating from other entities entities with direct links to the entity or with a path in the citation graph possibly with a predefined maximum length to the entity such actual requests being counted if they occur within a predefined period of time and result in the use of the paths originating from the entity e.g. representing opinions reviews citations or other forms of expression with or without the count being adjusted by the possible weights on each link the length of each path and the level of each entity on each path.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine adjusts the influence of each entity by metrics relating to the citation graph comprising all entities or a subset of all linked entities. For a non limiting example such metrics can include the density of the graph defined as the ratio of the number of links to the number of linked entities in the graph such metrics are transformed by mathematical functions optimal to the topology of the graph such as where it is known that the distribution of links among entities in a given graph may be non linear. An example of such an adjustment would be the operation of estimating the influence of an entity as the number of directed links connecting to the entity divided by the logarithm of the density of the citation graph comprising all linked entities. For example such an operation can provide an optimal method of estimating influence rapidly with a limited degree of computational complexity.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine optimizes the estimation of influence for different contexts and requirements of performance memory graph topology number of entities and or any other context and or requirement by any combination of the operations described above in paragraphs above and any similar operations involving metrics including but not limited to values comprising the number of potential source entities to the entity for which influence is to be estimated the number of potential target entities the number of potential directed paths between any one entity and any other entity on any or all given dimensions the number of potential directed paths that include the entity the number of times within a defined period that a directed link from the entity is used for a scoring search or other operation s .

In the example of object selection engine ascribes or transfers metadata or attributes from one search related entity to another where each entity can be one of subject citation and object as depicted by an example of a process in . Although this figure depicts functional steps in a particular order for purposes of illustration the process is not limited to any particular order or arrangement of steps. One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the various steps portrayed in this figure could be omitted rearranged combined and or adapted in various ways.

In the example of the flowchart starts at block where citation searching retrieving and ranking criteria and mechanisms are set and adjusted based on user specification and or internal statistical data. The flowchart continues to block where a plurality of citations of objects that it the search criteria such as text match time filter author filter type filter are retrieved. The flowchart continues to block where one or more attributes associated with one or more of entities across source citation and target are identified with a high degree of probable accuracy. The flowchart continues to block where the identified attributes are ascribed or transferred from the entities where the attributes are available to other entities. The flowchart ends at block where objects are selected as the search result based on the matching of the objects with the searching criteria as well as the transferred attributes of the objects.

In some embodiments the metadata or attributes of the entities identified and ascribed by the object selection engine can be semantic or descriptive data regarding the entities including but are not limited to timestamp language and location of the entities which can be utilized for the selection of the objects.

In the example of object selection engine utilizes the identified and ascribed attributes to determine the selection and ranking of objects cited by the citations wherein the objects include but are not limited to documents on the Internet products services data files legal or natural persons or any entities in any form or means that can be searched or cited over a network. For a non limiting example the object selection engine may sort the timestamps of citations of an object and ascribe the earliest timestamp to the object as the object s birth timestamp i.e. providing a probably accurate estimate of when the object was created. For another non limiting example the object selection engine may utilize the language or location of the subject if known to determine the language of the citation or the location of the object.

In some embodiments the object selection engine utilizes one of the attributes ascribed among the subjects citations and objects as various types of content filters to select the objects for the search result wherein such attribute can be one of the properties of the objects or the citations. For a non limiting example if the citation includes obscene words the object selection engine may tag the objects as possibly obscene and the subjects as a source of obscene content. Similarly if an object is flagged by users as obscene the object selection engine may also tag the subjects that cited that object as sources which cite obscene content.

In some embodiments in combination with the ascribed attributes of objects described above the object selection engine may also calculate and rank the influence scores of the cited objects based on one or more of the following scoring components 

For a non limiting example in the example depicted in citing subject Author One has an influence score of 10 which composes Citation . and Citation . wherein Citation . cites Target One once while Citation . cites Target Two twice citing subject Author Two has an influence score of 5 which composes Citation . which cites Target One three times citing subject Author Three has an influence score of 4 which composes Citation . which cites Target Two four times. Based on the influence scores of the authors alone object selection engine calculates the influence score of Target One as 10 1 3 5 25 while the influence score of Target Two is calculated as 10 2 4 4 36. Since Target Two has a higher influence score than Target One it should be ranked higher than Target One in the final search result.

In some embodiments object selection engine determines the qualities of the cited objects by examining the distribution of influence scores of subjects citing the objects in the search results. For a non limiting example one measure of the influence distribution is the ratio of the number of citations from the influential and the non influential subjects where influential subjects may for a non limiting example have an influence score higher than a threshold determined by the percentile distribution of all influence scores. Object selection engine accepts only those objects that show up in the citation search results if their citation ratios from influential and non influential subjects are above a certain threshold while others can be marked as spam if the ratio of their citation ratios from influential and non influential subjects fall below the certain threshold indicating that they are most likely cited from spam subjects.

In some embodiments object selection engine calculates and ranks cited objects by treating citations of the objects as connections having positive or negative weights in a weighted citation graph. A citation with implicit positive weight can include for a non limiting example a retweet or a link between individual blog posts or web cites while a citation with negative weight can include for a non limiting example a statement by one subject that another source is a spammer.

In some embodiments object selection engine uses citations with negative weights in a citation graph based rank influence calculation approach to propagate negative citation scores through the citation graph. Assigning and propagating citations of negative weights makes it possible to identify clusters of spammers in the citation graph without having each spammer individually identified. Furthermore identifying subjects sources with high influence and propagating a few negative citations from such subjects is enough to mark an entire cluster of spammers negatively thus reducing their influence on the search result.

In some embodiments object selection engine presents the generated search results of cited objects to a user who issues the search request or provides the generated search results to a third party for further processing. In some embodiments object selection engine presents to the user a score computed from a function combining the count of citations and the influence of the subjects of the citations along with the search result of the objects. In some embodiments object selection engine displays multiple scores computed from functions combining the counts of subsets of citations and the influence of the source of each citation along with the search result where each subset may be determined by criteria such as the influence of the subjects or attributes of the subjects or the citations. For non limiting examples the following may be displayed to the user 5 citations from Twitter 7 citations from people in Japan and 8 citations in English from influential users. The subsets above may be selected and or filtered either by the object selection engine or by users.

In some embodiments object selection engine selects for display of every object in the search result one or more citations and the subjects of the citations on the basis of criteria such as the recency or the influence of their citing subjects relative to the other citations in the search result. Object selection engine then displays the selected citations and or subjects in such a way that the relationship between the search result the citations and the subjects of the citations are made transparent to a user.

One embodiment may be implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor s programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art. Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

One embodiment includes a computer program product which is a machine readable medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program one or more hosts to perform any of the features presented herein. The machine readable medium can include but is not limited to one or more types of disks including floppy disks optical discs DVD CD ROMs micro drive and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data. Stored on any one of the computer readable medium media the present invention includes software for controlling both the hardware of the general purpose specialized computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human viewer or other mechanism utilizing the results of the present invention. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems execution environments containers and applications.

The foregoing description of various embodiments of the claimed subject matter has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the claimed subject matter to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. Particularly while the concept interface is used in the embodiments of the systems and methods described above it will be evident that such concept can be interchangeably used with equivalent software concepts such as class method type module component bean module object model process thread and other suitable concepts. While the concept component is used in the embodiments of the systems and methods described above it will be evident that such concept can be interchangeably used with equivalent concepts such as class method type interface module object model and other suitable concepts. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best describe the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the relevant art to understand the claimed subject matter the various embodiments and with various modifications that are suited to the particular use contemplated.

