---

title: Adjusting intensity of laser beam during laser operation on a semiconductor device
abstract: Among other things, a system and method for adjusting the intensity of a laser beam applied to a semiconductor device are provided for herein. A sensor is configured to measure the intensity of a laser beam reflected from the semiconductor device. Based upon the reflection intensity, an intensity of the laser beam that is applied to the semiconductor device is adjusted, such as to alter an annealing operation performed on the semiconductor device, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09378990&OS=09378990&RS=09378990
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09378990
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20150629
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 726 271 titled ADJUSTING INTENSITY OF LASER BEAM DURING LASER OPERATION ON A SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE and filed on Dec. 24 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

As consumers continue to demand thinner lighter and smaller electronic devices e.g. televisions personal computers tablets cellular telephones etc. the premium placed on real estate within such devices has grown. Accordingly semiconductor manufacturers are pressed to create smaller and faster semiconductor circuits that also consume less power e.g. to improve energy efficiency and or reduce battery consumption . Circuitry comprising field effect transistors FETs such as complementary metal oxide semiconductors CMOSs has grown in popularity due to this demand for smaller faster and or more energy efficient circuitry.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One or more systems and techniques for adjusting the intensity of a laser beam applied to a semiconductor device are provided for herein. In some embodiments the laser beam is applied to the semiconductor device to perform an anneal operation such as to heat one or more layers of the semiconductor device for example. Typically when a laser beam is applied to a semiconductor device some of the energy is reflected from the semiconductor device and some of the energy is absorbed by the semiconductor device e.g. causing the semiconductor device to increase in temperature . A degree to which the laser beam is reflected is a function of among other things one or more properties of a material to which the laser beam is directed. By way of example in some embodiments low emissivity films formed on a semiconductor device reflect less energy than high emissivity films.

In some embodiments the reflection intensity of the laser beam e.g. the magnitude at which the laser beam is reflected from the semiconductor is measured and an intensity at which the laser beam is applied to the semiconductor device is adjusted as a function of the reflection intensity. That is for example the reflection intensity of the laser beam is measured while the laser beam is being applied to the semiconductor device. Based upon this measurement changes are made to the intensity at which the laser beam is applied to the semiconductor. In this way in some embodiments the intensity of the laser beam applied to the semiconductor device is adjusted to compensate for differences in the material s to which laser beam is directed. Further in some embodiments the foregoing technique is utilized to control thermal absorption by the semiconductor device e.g. to control the temperature of the semiconductor device during an anneal operation .

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects are employed. Other aspects advantages and or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

Embodiments or examples illustrated in the drawings are disclosed below using specific language. It will nevertheless be understood that the embodiments or examples are not intended to be limiting. Any alterations and modifications in the disclosed embodiments and any further applications of the principles disclosed in this document are contemplated as would normally occur to one of ordinary skill in the pertinent art.

Semiconductors are formed using a variety of operations. Example operations include among other things physical vapor deposition PVD chemical vapor deposition CVD atomic layer deposition ALD plating epitaxially growing etc. Another operation frequently utilized is an anneal operation where the semiconductor device e.g. or a portion thereof such as a single layer of the semiconductor device is heated to change a property or properties of the semiconductor device. In some embodiments one or more of such processes include the use of a laser configured to apply a laser beam to the semiconductor device. For example in some embodiments the anneal operation includes using a laser beam to heat the semiconductor device e.g. or merely a portion of the semiconductor device .

As provided for herein one or more systems and techniques for applying a laser beam to a semiconductor device are provided. An intensity at which the laser beam is emitted by a laser is varied based upon a degree to which the laser beam is reflected from the semiconductor device. That is for example a reflection intensity of the laser beam is measured and an applied intensity of the laser beam is adjusted as a function of the reflection intensity. In this way in some embodiments a laser is dynamically controlled to adjust the applied intensity of the laser beam as a function of the material to which the laser beam is directed e.g. where various types thickness etc. of materials reflect various percentages of the laser beam or electromagnetic radiation of the laser beam . In other embodiments the laser is dynamically controlled to adjust the applied intensity of the laser beam as a function of localized variations in the material e.g. caused by defects during a formation of the semiconductor device or more particularly during a formation of a layer to which the laser beam is directed . In this way in some embodiments thermal absorption by the semiconductor device is controlled by adjusting the applied intensity of the laser beam e.g. to reduce piping defects or other defects caused by the semiconductor device heating too rapidly or not heating to a desired temperature for example.

As used herein applied intensity is generally intended to refer to a magnitude at which a laser beam is emitted from a laser. That is for example applied intensity typically refers to a magnitude of electromagnetic radiation emitted from the laser.

Further reflection intensity is generally intended to refer to a magnitude at which the laser beam is reflected from the semiconductor device. That is for example reflection intensity typically refers to a magnitude of electromagnetic radiation that is reflected from the semiconductor device when a laser is applied thereto.

Referring to a cross sectional view of an example semiconductor device at least partially formed by applying a laser beam to the semiconductor device is provided. In the illustrated embodiment the semiconductor device is a field effect transistor FET although the instant application including the scope of the claims is not intended to be limited to a field effect transistor. For example in other embodiments the semiconductor device comprises resistors capacitors memory cells light emitting diodes etc.

The semiconductor device is formed on a substrate e.g. a wafer . In some embodiments the substrate is a silicon substrate. Other example materials for the substrate include among other things germanium diamond silicon carbide gallium arsenide indium arsenide indium phosphide etc. In some embodiments an anneal operation is performed on the substrate to allow dopants such as boron phosphorous or arsenic for example to diffuse into the substrate.

The semiconductor device comprises a gate stack a source region and a drain region formed on or within the substrate . In the example embodiment the gate stack comprises a gate dielectric layer and a gate electrode . The gate dielectric layer adjoins the substrate and is comprised of a dielectric material such as metal oxides metal nitrides metal silicates transition metal oxides transition metal nitrides transition metal silicates oxynitrides of metals metal aluminates zirconium silicate zirconium aluminate for example. The gate electrode comprises one or more layers which includes interface layers capping layers and or sacrificial layers for example. By way of example in some embodiments the gate electrode comprises a polysilicon layer. In some embodiments one or more dopant materials such as p type dopants or n type dopants are added to the one or more layers of the gate electrode such as the polysilicon layer for example. Example techniques for forming such layers include physical vapor deposition PVD chemical vapor deposition CVD atomic layer deposition ALD and or plating for example.

In the illustrated embodiment the gate stack further comprises a silicide region that is formed above the gate electrode e.g. on a diametrically opposite side of the gate electrode relative to the gate dielectric layer . In some embodiments the silicide region is configured to reduce contact resistance at the gate stack e.g. to reduce gate resistance thereby affecting e.g. improving one or more operating characteristics of the semiconductor device for example. Example materials for the silicide region include metal silicides such as cobalt silicide titanium silicide nickel silicide platinum silicide tantalum silicide tungsten silicide etc. for example. In some embodiments the silicide region is formed by depositing a layer of metal and performing an anneal operation on the metal to convert the metal into a metal silicide such as by reacting the metal with polysilicon of the gate electrode for example. In other embodiments other suitable techniques are utilized to form the silicide region .

The source region is typically formed in the substrate on a first side of the gate stack and the drain region is typically formed in the substrate on a diametrically opposite side of the gate stack . The source region and the drain region respectively comprise a semiconductor material such as a monocrystalline semiconductor material. In some embodiments the source region and the drain region comprise a substantially same semiconductor material. In other embodiments the source region comprises a different semiconductor material or a different concentration of the semiconductor material relative to the drain region . In some embodiments the source region and the drain region are formed by an implantation process to form define the source and the drain e.g. wherein the implantation process introduces dopants such as arsenic phosphorous boron etc. into the substrate for example. In other embodiments other suitable techniques are utilized to form the source region or the drain region .

The example semiconductor device further comprises sidewall spacers which are formed on opposite sidewalls of the gate stack . In some embodiments a first sidewall spacer is comprised of one or more layers of dielectric material and a second sidewall spacer is comprised of one or more layers of dielectric material. As an example in some embodiments the first sidewall spacer and the second sidewall spacer respectively comprise two layers. A first layer of the two layers includes a nitride composition such as silicon nitride and the second layer of the two layers includes an oxide composition such as silicon oxide for example. Other example materials for one or more layers of the first sidewall spacer or the second sidewall spacer include silicon carbide and silicon oxynitride for example. In some embodiments such sidewall spacers facilitate lateral electric distance control for example. In other embodiment the sidewall spacers facilitate defining the source region and the drain region such as by directing implanted dopants into particular regions of the substrate for example.

In the illustrated embodiment the semiconductor device further comprises a second silicide region formed spatially proximate the source region and a third silicide region formed spatially proximate the drain region . More particularly the second silicide region is positioned on top of the source region e.g. to cap the source region and the third silicide region is positioned on top of the drain region e.g. to cap the drain region . In some embodiments the second silicide region is configured to reduce contact resistance at the source region e.g. to reduce source resistance and the third silicide region is configured to reduce contact resistance at the drain region e.g. to reduce drain resistance thereby affecting e.g. improving one or more operating characteristics of the semiconductor device for example. Example materials for the silicide regions include metal silicides such as cobalt silicide titanium silicide nickel silicide platinum silicide tantalum silicide tungsten silicide etc. In some embodiments the second silicide region and the third silicide region are formed by depositing a layer of metal and performing an anneal operation on the metal to convert the metal into a metal silicide. In other embodiments other suitable techniques are utilized to form the second silicide region and the third silicide region .

In some embodiments the semiconductor device is electrically isolated from one or more neighboring semiconductor devices not shown e.g. such as other FETs via an isolation layer. By way of example in the illustrated embodiment the semiconductor device is electrically isolated from neighboring semiconductor devices via a first isolation layer located spatially proximate the source region and a second isolation layer located spatially proximate the drain region . In other embodiments the semiconductor device is electrically isolated from neighboring semiconductor devices at merely the source region or merely the drain region. As an example in some embodiments an isolation layer is formed proximate the source region but not the drain region . In at least some of these embodiments the drain region of the semiconductor device functions as a source or a drain for a second semiconductor device for example. In still other embodiments no isolation layers are present between the semiconductor device and other neighboring semiconductor devices. In some embodiments such isolation layers are formed by respectively etching recesses in the substrate and at least partially filling the recesses with a dielectric material or substantially non conductive material.

At in the example method a laser beam is applied to the semiconductor device. The laser beam is applied at a first applied intensity and typically has a first wavelength. The magnitude of the wavelength is typically a function of the laser being utilized to perform the operation. For example a ruby laser typically has a wavelength of about 694 nm a XeF laser typically has a wavelength of about 308 nm a KrF laser typically has a wavelength of about 249 nm and an ArF laser typically has a wavelength of about 193 nm. It is to be appreciated that the foregoing list of lasers are merely provided as example types of lasers and that other lasers suitable for the process being performed on the semiconductor device are also contemplated.

Generally the intensity of the laser beam that is applied to the semiconductor device is in the range of between about 650 mJ cmto about 1100 mJ cm. However in other embodiments the intensity of the laser beam that is applied to the semiconductor device is below about 650 mJ cmor exceeds about 1100 mJ cm. In some embodiments the first applied intensity or an intensity at which the laser beam is initially applied to the semiconductor device is a function of the type of material to which the laser beam is directed e.g. such as the type of metal . In some other embodiments the first applied intensity or an intensity at which the laser beam is initially applied to the semiconductor device is a function of a thickness of the material to which the laser beam is directed. In still other embodiments that first applied intensity is selected at random or selected to be a e.g. low value to reduce a probability of undesirably heating the semiconductor device.

It is to be appreciated that while reference is made herein to applying the laser beam to the semiconductor device such terminology is intended to include the possibility of the laser beam being applied to a mere portion of the semiconductor device or to multiple semiconductor devices. For example with respect to an annealing operation in some embodiments the laser beam is directed to merely a portion of semiconductor device to be annealed. Accordingly applying the laser beam to the semiconductor device is intended to encompass applying the laser beam to less than all of the semiconductor device e.g. such as a mere portion of layer of the semiconductor device .

At in the example method a reflection intensity of the laser beam is measured. The reflection intensity is indicative of a magnitude at which the laser beam is reflected from the semiconductor device. That is for example the reflection intensity is indicative of the electromagnetic radiation generated by the laser that was reflected by the semiconductor device and thus not absorbed by the semiconductor device. By way of example in some embodiments one or more sensors such as a pyrometer for example are positioned spatially proximate the laser to measure an amount of electromagnetic radiation reflected by the semiconductor device and associated with the laser beam.

In some embodiments measuring the reflection intensity of the laser beam at comprises filtering one or more wavelengths associated with the laser beam from one or more wavelengths not associated with the laser beam e.g. so that the electromagnetic radiation that is measured is associated with the laser and not associated with other light sources . In this way information from a portion of the light spectrum that is not associated with the laser beam is discarded or otherwise not factored into the measurement for example e.g. shielding light noise or electromagnetic radiation from the measurement .

It is to be appreciated that the difference between the reflection intensity and the applied intensity is approximately equal to an amount of energy absorbed by the semiconductor device. In some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation from the laser beam is converted to thermal energy upon absorption and thus the thermal absorption of the semiconductor device can be approximated based upon the measured reflection intensity for example. By way of example high emissivity films of a semiconductor device such as high emissivity metals typically reflect a greater percentage of the laser beam s energy relative to low emissivity films such as low emissivity metals. Accordingly low emissivity films typically thermally absorb a larger percentage of the laser beam s energy than higher emissivity films. As such low emissivity films tend to increase in temperature more rapidly than higher emissivity films when an identical laser beam is applied thereto. Thus by measuring the reflection intensity an estimate of the thermal absorption can be derived and changes in the intensity can be made to achieve a desired thermal absorption e.g. or heating rate .

At in the example method an applied intensity of the laser beam is adjusted as a function of the reflection intensity. In this way the applied intensity is altered from a first applied intensity to a second applied intensity that is different in magnitude than the first applied intensity based upon how much of the laser beam is being reflected from the semiconductor device. In some embodiments the second applied intensity is greater than the first applied intensity. In other embodiments the second applied intensity is less than the first applied intensity. Typically the wavelength of the laser beam remains substantially constant while adjusting the applied intensity although in some embodiments the wavelength of the laser beams is also varied from time to time.

A degree to which the applied intensity is adjusted is a function of the reflection intensity of the laser beam. By way of example in some embodiments a desired reflection intensity is set e.g. to achieve a desired thermal absorption . When the measured reflection intensity is greater than the desired reflection intensity e.g. indicating that less of the laser beam s energy is being absorbed by the semiconductor device than desired the applied intensity is increased to increase the amount of energy that is absorbed by the semiconductor device for example. When the measured reflection intensity is less than the desired reflection intensity e.g. indicating that more of the laser beam s energy is being absorbed by the semiconductor device than desired thus potentially resulting in the semiconductor device heating too quickly the applied intensity is decreased to decrease the amount of energy that is absorbed by the semiconductor device for example.

In some embodiments adjusting the applied intensity of the laser beam comprises adjusting an amount of power supplied to a laser emitting the laser beam. In other embodiments an amount of power supplied to the laser emitting the laser beam is held constant while the applied intensity of the laser beam is adjusted. For example in some embodiments the current supplied to the laser and the voltage applied to the laser are inversely changed to alter the applied intensity while maintaining a substantially constant power supply.

In some embodiments one or more safeguards are provided to mitigate substantial changes in the applied intensity such as due to abnormalities in the measured reflection intensity for example. In some embodiments for example a first measurement of the reflection intensity e.g. a present measurement of the reflection intensity is compared to an average measurement of the reflection intensity to determine a degree of deviation between the first measurement and the average measurement. When the degree of deviation falls within a specified threshold the applied intensity is adjusted. When the degree of deviation does not fall within the specified threshold e.g. thus potentially indicating an abnormality in the measurement or the semiconductor device the applied intensity is not adjusted.

Moreover in some embodiments one or more safeguards are provided to mitigate substantial changes in the power supplied to the laser e.g. which result in performance degradation by the laser or a power supply configured to supply power to the laser . That is for example in some embodiments a range over which power supplied to the laser can be adjusted is limited. For example in some embodiment an adjustment to the amount of power supplied to the laser is permitted if the level of the adjustment is within a permissible threshold and is not permitted if the level of the adjustment is not within the permissible threshold. By way of example in some embodiments a threshold is set at 10 . Thus in such embodiments a request to alter the power level by more than 10 is denied e.g. or the power level is increased by no more than 10 while a request to alter the power level by less than 10 is granted. In other embodiments other thresholds are set to limit power output compensation for example.

In some embodiments one or more acts of the example method are repeated a plurality of times during the operation of the laser. For example in some embodiments the reflection intensity is measured tens of thousands of times during the operation and adjustments to the applied intensity are made accordingly as a function of the measured reflection intensity. In some embodiments the reflection intensity is measured in real time e.g. while the laser is emitting the laser beam at least 21 000 times for example to facilitate making minute adjustments to the applied intensity.

At in the example method a reflection intensity of the laser beam applied to the semiconductor device is measured. The reflection intensity is indicative of a magnitude at which the laser beam is reflected from the semiconductor device. That is for example a laser beam is applied to the semiconductor device and an amount of energy associated with the laser beam that is reflected from the semiconductor device is measured.

In some embodiments the measured reflection intensity is merely indicative of a reflection of the laser beam and is not indicative of the intensity of other electromagnetic radiation generated by one or more other lights sources. By way of example in the method measuring the reflection intensity of the laser beam comprises filtering one or more wavelengths associated with the laser beam from one or more wavelengths not associated with the laser beam at . In this way a portion of a spectrum electromagnetic radiation not associated with the laser beam is excluded from the measurement of the reflection intensity for example.

At in the example method the applied intensity of the laser beam is adjusted as a function of the reflection intensity. That is for example an amount of energy applied to the semiconductor device via the laser beam is adjusted as a function of the reflection intensity. The applied intensity is adjusted upward or downward as a function of the reflection intensity. By way of example in some embodiments a desired reflection intensity is specified. When the measured reflection intensity is higher than the desired reflection intensity e.g. indicating that more energy is reflected from the semiconductor device than desired the applied intensity is increased to increase the amount of energy that is absorbed by the semiconductor device. In this way where the energy absorbed by the semiconductor device is converted to heat energy increasing the applied intensity causes the rate at which a semiconductor device increases in temperature to increase for example. When the measured reflection intensity is less than the desired reflection intensity e.g. indicating that less energy is reflected from the semiconductor device than desired the applied intensity is decreased to decrease the amount of energy that is absorbed by the semiconductor device. In this way where the energy absorbed by the semiconductor device is converted to heat energy decreasing the applied intensity causes the rate at which a semiconductor device increases in temperature to decrease for example.

In the example method adjusting the applied intensity of the laser beam comprises adjusting an amount of power supplied to a laser emitting the laser beam at . That is the intensity at which the laser emits the laser beam is a function of the power supplied to the laser. In other embodiments an amount of power supplied to the laser emitting the laser beam is held constant while the applied intensity of the laser beam is adjusted. For example in some embodiments the current supplied to the laser and the voltage applied to the laser are inversely changed to adjust the applied intensity while maintaining a substantially constant power supply.

It is to be appreciated that in some embodiments the safeguards described with respect to example method of and or other features described with respect to the example method that do not contradict with features of the example method also find applicability to the example method but are not further described with respect to the example method for purposes of brevity. Moreover in some embodiments features described with respect to the example method that do not contradict with features of the example method also find applicability to the example method .

In some embodiments prior to the anneal operation beginning a layer of metal is formed on a structure comprising silicon such as the substrate gate electrode source region or drain region for example. In some embodiments the layer of metal is formed using a physical vapor deposition PVD process. In other embodiments the layer of metal is formed using a chemical vapor deposition CVD process. Example materials for the metal include cobalt nickel titanium tantalum platinum tungsten etc. Example materials for dopants that may be implanted and annealed or activated include boron phosphorous arsenic etc. In some embodiments the thickness of the layer of metal is a function of the application for the semiconductor device . In other embodiments the thickness of the layer of metal is a function of where the layer of metal is formed in relation to other features of the semiconductor device such as gate source and drain for example.

In some embodiments the anneal operation described in the example method is performed in a single action. In other embodiments the anneal operation is performed in a multi act process whereby respective portions of the layer of metal or dopants are heated multiple times. During at least a portion of the anneal operation a laser is utilized to apply a laser beam to the semiconductor device to form a metal silicide from the layer of metal or to form a doped layer or region for example. In some embodiments other heat sources in addition to the laser are also utilized during at least some of the anneal operation to further alter a temperature of the semiconductor device e.g. or region of the semiconductor device in which the metal silicide or dopant region or layer is formed for example.

At in the example method a laser beam is applied to the semiconductor device to anneal a layer of the semiconductor device. That is for example a laser beam is applied to the semiconductor device to heat or otherwise alter a property ies of the layer s of the semiconductor device to which the laser beam is applied. For example in the method applying the laser beam to the semiconductor device to anneal a layer of the semiconductor device comprises directing the laser beam toward a metal layer of the semiconductor device to form a metal silicide at . In other embodiments applying the laser beam to the semiconductor device to anneal a layer of the semiconductor device comprises directing the laser beam toward a portion of the semiconductor device where a change in temperature is desired. In still other embodiments applying the laser beam to the semiconductor device to anneal a layer of the semiconductor device comprises directing the laser beam to a substrate upon which the semiconductor device is formed.

In some embodiments the wavelength of the laser beam is a function of the laser although some lasers are configured to emit laser beams at multiple different wavelengths. In some embodiments the particular wavelength that is selected or particular laser that is selected is a function of the type or thickness of a material to be annealed for example.

In some embodiments an initial intensity of the laser beam that is applied to the semiconductor device is a function of the type or thickness of the material to be annealed. In other embodiments an initial intensity of the laser beam is selected at random or selected to be a low energy value e.g. to mitigate the possibility of exposing the semiconductor device to an energy level sufficient to cause piping defects or other defects for example .

At in the example method a reflection intensity of the laser beam is measured. The reflection intensity is indicative of a magnitude at which the laser beam is reflected from the semiconductor device. That is for example the reflection intensity is indicative of the energy of the laser beam that has been reflected from the semiconductor device e.g. and thus not absorbed by the semiconductor device or converted to thermal energy in the semiconductor device .

At in the example method the applied intensity of the laser beam is adjusted as a function of the reflection intensity. That is for example the magnitude at which the laser beam is emitted e.g. and applied to the semiconductor is adjusted based upon the reflection intensity.

By way of example during an anneal operation at least some of the energy of the laser beam is intended to be absorbed by the semiconductor device and converted to thermal energy. Accordingly the laser beam is utilized to alter e.g. increase a temperature of the semiconductor device e.g. or a layer of the semiconductor device to which the anneal operation is directed . At in the example method a rate at which the semiconductor device changes temperature is altered by changing the applied intensity. For example when the measured reflection intensity exceeds a desired reflection intensity the applied intensity is increased to increase the amount of energy absorbed per unit time and increase the rate at which the temperature of the semiconductor device changes. When the measured reflection intensity is below a desired reflection intensity the applied intensity is decreased to decrease the amount of energy absorbed per unit time and decrease the rate at which the temperature of the semiconductor device changes. Accordingly in some embodiments the amount of energy absorbed per unit time is dynamically adjusted based upon measurements of the reflection intensity. Moreover in some embodiments the rate at which the temperature of the semiconductor device changes is dynamically adjusted based upon measurements of the reflection intensity.

It is to be appreciated that in some embodiments the safeguards described with respect to example method of and other features described with respect to the example method and the example method that do not contradict with features of the example method also find applicability to the example method but are not further described with respect to the example method for purposes of brevity. Moreover in some embodiments features described with respect to the example method that do not contradict with features of the example method also find applicability to the example method and features described with respect to the example method that do not contradict with features of the example method also find applicability to the example method .

Further in some embodiments one or more processes are performed after the anneal operation to further form the semiconductor device. For example in some embodiments a chemical wash is performed on the semiconductor device to remove excess metal or dopants during or after the anneal operation.

The example system comprises a laser configured to apply a laser beam to the semiconductor device . In some embodiments the laser beam emitted by the laser performs an anneal operation on the semiconductor device or a portion thereof. For example as previously described in some embodiments the laser is configured to direct the laser beam toward a specified layer or layers of the semiconductor device to change or increase a temperature of the specified layer or layers. Accordingly in such embodiments the laser is configured to emit a laser beam having a wavelength that heats the semiconductor device or a portion thereof such as a metal layer for example.

In some embodiments the laser is a pulse laser configured to intermittently emit a laser beam e.g. where respective emissions are followed by a resting period during which little to no electromagnetic radiation is emitted . In other embodiments the laser is a continuously emitting laser configured to continuously emit a laser beam until a stopping criteria is met.

In the illustrated embodiment the laser is mounted to an articulating arm configured to maneuver the laser relative to the semiconductor device e.g. which in some embodiments is stationary . In other embodiments the laser is substantially stationary while the semiconductor device is moved on a conveyor belt or other movable platform. In still other embodiments both the laser and the semiconductor device are moved during the operation.

It is to be appreciated that by moving the laser relative to the semiconductor device a surface or portion of the semiconductor device is effectively painted with the laser beam . For example in some embodiments the laser beam emitted by the laser is about 11 mm in diameter. Accordingly to treat e.g. perform an anneal operation on a portion of the semiconductor device having a surface area greater than the diameter of the laser beam such as a surface area of 40 mm the laser is moved relative to the semiconductor device to provide for applying the laser beam to the 40 mmportion of the semiconductor device .

In some embodiments such as where the laser is a pulse laser the operation is performed in a step and shoot manner. Accordingly a first pulse of electromagnetic radiation is emitted from the laser while the semiconductor device maintains a first orientation relative to the laser the laser ceases emitting the laser beam and the orientation of the semiconductor device is moved relative to the laser and a second pulse of electromagnetic radiation is emitted from the laser while the semiconductor device maintains the second orientation relative to the laser . In other embodiments such as where the laser is a continuous emitting laser the laser continues to emit electromagnetic radiation while the orientation of the semiconductor device is changed relative to the laser .

The example system further comprises a sensor configured to measure a reflection intensity of the laser beam . That is the sensor is configured to measure a magnitude of energy at which the laser beam is reflected from the semiconductor device . In some embodiments the sensor is a pyrometer or other suitable electromagnetic radiation measuring device.

In some embodiments the sensor is mounted spatially proximate the laser . For example in some embodiments the sensor wraps around an outer perimeter of a nozzle of the laser to detect the reflected portion of the laser beam . illustrates an example configuration for the sensor relative to the laser . More particularly illustrates a cross sectional view of the example configuration looking into a nozzle of the laser e.g. such that a laser beam would shoot out of the page . In the illustrated embodiment the sensor wraps around a circumference or outer perimeter of the nozzle and is comprised of a plurality of sensor elements e.g. represented by the cross hatched pattern respectively configured to measure the reflection intensity of a portion of the laser beam that impinges thereon. By combining the reflection intensity measured by respective sensor elements a total reflection intensity is measured for example.

It is to be appreciated that illustrates merely one example configuration for positioning the sensor relative to the laser or laser nozzle . For example in other embodiments the sensor is positioned on merely one side of the laser nozzle . In still other embodiments the sensor surrounds less than the total perimeter of the nozzle . Typically the sensor is placed spatially proximate the laser to promote detection of the reflected laser beam . However in some embodiments the sensor is located away from the laser . By way of example in some embodiments the sensor is located away from the laser and one or more mirrors or other reflective surfaces are configured to direct the reflected laser beam toward the sensor .

Returning to in some embodiments the sensor is configured to filter one or more wavelengths associated with the laser beam from one or more wavelengths not associated with the laser beam . By way of example in some embodiments the sensor comprises a physical filter that is placed between the semiconductor device and one or more sensor elements of the sensor . Such a physical filter is configured to attenuate electromagnetic radiation that is not associated with the laser beam e.g. to filter out electromagnetic radiation yielded from other light sources and to allow electromagnetic radiation associated with the laser beam to pass through the filter and be detected by the sensor element s . In other embodiments the sensor comprises an electronic filter configured to separate data or signals generated by the sensor element s and indicative of electromagnetic radiation that is associated with the laser beam from data or signals generated by the sensor element s and indicative of electromagnetic radiation that is not associated with the laser beam for example.

The example system further comprises a controller that is in operable communication with the sensor . The controller is configured to adjust an applied intensity of the laser beam as a function of the reflection intensity. That is based upon an amount of energy that is reflected from the semiconductor device and detected by the sensor the controller is configured to adjust the intensity of the laser beam that is applied to the semiconductor device e.g. to achieve a desired energy absorption by the semiconductor device . It is to be appreciated that details regarding such an adjustment are further described with respect to the example methods and and are therefore not described with respect to the controller for purposes of brevity. Accordingly in some embodiments the controller is configured to perform at least some of the acts of example method at least some of the acts of example method or at least some of the acts of example method .

Moreover in some embodiments the controller is configured to implement at least some of the safeguards described with respect to the example method of . For example in some embodiments the controller is configured to not adjust the applied intensity at a given point in time when a degree of deviation between the reflection intensity as recently measured and an average reflection intensity does not fall within a specified threshold. Accordingly the controller is configured to mitigate adjustments made when the data or signal is indicative of an abnormal measurement or an abnormality in the semiconductor device e.g. which is reflected in a larger than average change in the reflection intensity for example.

The example system further comprises a power supply configured to supply power to the laser . In some embodiments the controller is in operable communication with the power supply and is configured to adjust the applied intensity by requesting a change in an amount of power supplied to the laser via the power supply . In other embodiments the controller is configured to request that the power supply alter the current supplied to the laser and alter the voltage applied to the laser inversely to alter the applied intensity while maintaining a substantially constant power output for example. In still other embodiments the controller is configured to adjust the intensity of the laser beam without the aid of the power supply . For example in some embodiments the controller is configured to utilize a filter to alter the intensity of the laser beam emitted by the laser prior to being applied to the semiconductor device .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of at least some of the exemplary method of or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component includes a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component is localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

It will be appreciated that layers features elements etc. depicted herein are illustrated with particular dimensions relative to one another such as structural dimensions and or orientations for example for purposes of simplicity and ease of understanding and that actual dimensions of the same differ substantially from that illustrated herein in some embodiments. Additionally a variety of techniques exist for forming the layers features elements etc. mentioned herein such as implanting techniques doping techniques spin on techniques sputtering techniques such as magnetron or ion beam sputtering growth techniques such as thermal growth and or deposition techniques such as chemical vapor deposition CVD for example.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

