---

title: Doorbell communication systems and methods
abstract: Doorbell systems can be configurable to determine whether an emergency event has been initiated inside of a building to which the doorbell system is attached. In response to determining that the emergency event has been initiated, the doorbell system can activate an alert communication system to notify people located outside of the building.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113052&OS=09113052&RS=09113052
owner: SkyBell Technologies, Inc.
number: 09113052
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150410
---
This application claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 664 345 filed Mar. 20 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 664 345 are incorporated by reference herein.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 127 660 filed Mar. 3 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of Patent Application No. 62 127 660 are incorporated by reference herein.

This application claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 612 376 filed Feb. 3 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 612 376 are incorporated by reference herein.

U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 612 376 is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 589 830 filed Jan. 5 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 589 830 are incorporated by reference herein.

U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 589 830 is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 502 601 filed Sep. 30 2014 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 502 601 are incorporated by reference herein.

U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 502 601 is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 492 809 filed Sep. 22 2014 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS which claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 275 811 filed May 12 2014 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 872 915 which claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 142 839 filed Dec. 28 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 842 180 which claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 099 888 filed Dec. 6 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 823 795 which claims the benefit of and is a continuation of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 098 772 filed Dec. 6 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 780 201 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 872 439 filed Aug. 30 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS and also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 859 070 filed Jul. 26 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 492 809 U.S. Pat. No. 8 872 915 U.S. Pat. No. 8 842 180 U.S. Pat. No. 8 823 795 U.S. Pat. No. 8 780 201 Patent Application No. 61 872 439 and Patent Application No. 61 859 070 are incorporated by reference herein.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated herein by reference International Application No. PCT US14 53506 filed Aug. 29 2014 with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated herein by reference International Application No. PCT US14 47622 filed Jul. 22 2014 with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

Various embodiments disclosed herein relate to doorbells. Certain embodiments relate to communication between a person near a doorbell and a person in another location.

Homes offices and other buildings sometimes include communication and surveillance systems to enable friendly visitors to summon occupants of the buildings and to deter unwanted visitors. Communication and surveillance systems can include video cameras and doorbells.

Doorbells can enable a person located outside of an entry point such as a door to alert a person inside of an entry point that someone outside would like to talk to someone inside. Doorbells sometimes include a button located near a door such as a front door side door or back door of a home office dwelling warehouse building or structure. Doorbells are sometimes used near a gate or some other entrance to a partially enclosed area. Pushing the doorbell sometimes causes a chime or other alerting sound to be emitted. In some cases this alerting sound can typically be heard within a short distance from the entry point or sound source. For example a homeowner located remotely from her home likely would not be able to hear the alerting sound and thus would not be aware that someone is ringing her doorbell. Thus there is a need for devices and methods to alert remotely located individuals that someone seeks the attention of the homeowner tenant building guardian or steward.

This disclosure includes a method for using a doorbell system wherein the doorbell system comprises a doorbell having an alert communication system. The method can comprise determining by the doorbell whether an emergency event has been initiated and in response to determining that the emergency event has been initiated activating the alert communication system.

In embodiments the alert communication system comprises at least one of a light and a speaker and wherein activating the alert communication system comprises at least one of illuminating the light and emitting a sound with the speaker.

The emergency event can comprise at least one of a fire a gas leak a break in elevated levels of smoke elevated levels of radon and elevated levels of carbon monoxide. The emergency event can be associated with a building. The doorbell can be attached to the building.

Methods can further comprise receiving a transmission from a communication system communicatively coupled to the doorbell. The communication system can be located remotely relative to the doorbell and the transmission can comprise an indication that the emergency event has been initiated.

The transmission can be a second transmission and the indication can be a second indication in such embodiments receiving the second transmission from the communication system can occur in response to the communication system receiving a first transmission from a sensor communicatively coupled to the communication system. As well the sensor can be located remotely relative to the communication system. The first transmission can comprise a first indication that the emergency event has been initiated.

Methods can further comprise receiving a first transmission from a first sensor communicatively coupled to the doorbell. The first sensor can be located remotely relative to the doorbell and the first transmission can comprise a first indication that the emergency event has been initiated.

Methods can comprise receiving a second transmission from a second sensor communicatively coupled to the doorbell. The second sensor can be located remotely relative to both the doorbell and the first sensor and the second transmission can comprise a second indication that a second emergency event has been initiated. Methods can also include determining by the doorbell whether a second emergency event has been initiated. In response to determining that the second emergency event has been initiated methods can include activating the alert communication system.

In embodiments the emergency event is a first emergency event. The alert communication system can comprise a light and a speaker. As well activating the alert communication system in response to the first emergency event being initiated can comprise illuminating the light. Methods can also include determining by the doorbell whether a second emergency event has been initiated. In response to determining that the second emergency event has been initiated methods can include emitting a sound with the speaker.

Methods can further comprise receiving a command to deactivate at least a portion of the alert communication system. In response to receiving the command to deactivate at least the portion of the alert communication system methods can include deactivating at least the portion of the alert communication system.

In embodiments the command to deactivate at least the portion of the alert communication system can comprise at least one of a button press and an audible predetermined message spoken by a user.

The doorbell can be communicatively coupled to a sensor remotely located with respect to the doorbell and the sensor can comprise a first speaker that emits a first sound in response to the emergency event. Methods can further include receiving a button press and then in response to the button press methods can include turning off the first speaker so that the first speaker no longer emits the first sound.

Methods can further comprise initiating by the doorbell a communication session with a remote computing device. The communication session can comprise an indication that the emergency event that has been initiated.

The disclosure also includes a doorbell system comprising a doorbell. The doorbell can comprise an outer housing configurable to attach to a building and a visitor detection system coupled to the outer housing. The visitor detection system can comprise at least one of a button and a camera. The system can comprise an alert communication system coupled to the outer housing. The alert communication system can be configurable to activate in response to an initiation of an emergency event. The alert communication system can comprise at least one of a light and a speaker.

The alert communication system can comprise at least one of a speaker and a light. The speaker can be configurable to emit a sound in response to the initiation of the emergency event. The light can be configurable to illuminate in response to the initiation of the emergency event.

The doorbell system can further comprise a sensor communicatively coupled to the doorbell. The sensor can be located remotely relative to the doorbell and the sensor can be configurable to determine whether the emergency event has been initiated.

The doorbell system can further comprise a communication system communicatively coupled to both the doorbell and the sensor. The communication system can be located remotely relative to both the doorbell and the sensor and the communication system can be configurable to receive a transmission from the sensor to thereby determine whether the emergency event has been initiated.

In embodiments the sensor comprises a smoke alarm. In embodiments the sensor comprises a burglar alarm. In embodiments the sensor comprises at least one of a radon sensor a carbon monoxide sensor a carbon dioxide sensor a propane sensor a methane sensor a butane sensor and a natural gas sensor.

The doorbell system can further comprise a remote computing device communicatively coupled to the doorbell. The doorbell can be configurable to initiate a communication session with the remote computing device. The communication session can comprise an indication that the emergency event that has been initiated.

The disclosure also includes a doorbell system comprising a doorbell having a button and a speaker. The doorbell can be configurable to attach to an exterior of a building. The doorbell system can also include a communication system located remotely relative to the doorbell and communicatively coupled to the doorbell and a first sensor located remotely relative to the communication system and communicatively coupled to the communication system. The first sensor can be configured to detect a first emergency event. The doorbell system can also comprise a first wireless communication regarding the first emergency event from the sensor to the communication system and a second wireless communication regarding the first emergency event from the communication system to the doorbell. The communication system can send the second wireless communication in response to receiving the first wireless communication. The doorbell system can also include a flashing light emitted from the doorbell in response to the second wireless communication.

The first sensor can comprises a smoke alarm and the first emergency event can comprise a smoke event. The first sensor can comprise a window detection sensor coupled to a window and the first emergency event can comprise a fracture of the window.

The doorbell system can further comprise a sound emitted from the doorbell in response to the second wireless communication wherein the sound is configured to alert first responders. In embodiments the sound comprises at least one word that communicates a nature of the first emergency event. In embodiments the sound comprises at least one word that communicates a location of the first emergency event within the building.

The communication system can comprise a speaker and the doorbell system can comprise an audio communication session initiated by pressing the button of the doorbell after the first sensor detects the first emergency event. The audio communication session can comprise audio recorded by the doorbell outside the building wirelessly transmitted to the communication system and emitted by the speaker of the communication system inside the building.

The disclosure also includes a doorbell system comprising a doorbell having a button and a speaker. The doorbell can be configurable to attach to an exterior of a building. The doorbell system can also include a smoke alarm located remotely relative to the doorbell and communicatively coupled to the doorbell wherein the smoke alarm is configured to detect a smoke event.

The doorbell can further comprise a light that flashes in response to the smoke alarm detecting the smoke event. The doorbell can further comprise a speaker that emits a sound in response to the smoke alarm detecting the smoke event.

The embodiments described above include many optional features and aspects. Features and aspects of the embodiments can be combined.

Although certain embodiments and examples are disclosed below inventive subject matter extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses and to modifications and equivalents thereof. Thus the scope of the claims appended hereto is not limited by any of the particular embodiments described below. For example in any method or process disclosed herein the acts or operations of the method or process may be performed in any suitable sequence and are not necessarily limited to any particular disclosed sequence. Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding certain embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent. Additionally the structures systems and or devices described herein may be embodied as integrated components or as separate components.

For purposes of comparing various embodiments certain aspects and advantages of these embodiments are described. Not necessarily all such aspects or advantages are achieved by any particular embodiment. Thus for example various embodiments may be carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other aspects or advantages as may also be taught or suggested herein.

The following patent is incorporated herein by reference U.S. Pat. No. 7 583 191 entitled SECURITY SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USE OF SAME and filed Nov. 14 2006.

Communication systems can provide a secure and convenient way for a remotely located individual to communicate with a person who is approaching a sensor such as a proximity sensor or motion sensor or with a person who rings a doorbell which can be located in a doorway near an entrance or within 15 feet of a door. Some communication systems allow an individual to hear see and talk with visitors who approach at least a portion of the communication system and or press a button such as a doorbell s button. For example communication systems can use a computing device to enable a remotely located person to see hear and or talk with visitors. Computing devices can include computers laptops tablets mobile devices smartphones cellular phones and wireless devices e.g. cars with wireless communication . Example computing devices include the iPhone iPad iMac MacBook Air and MacBook Pro made by Apple Inc. Communication between a remotely located person and a visitor can occur via the Internet cellular networks telecommunication networks and wireless networks.

The security system can include a diagnostic light and a power indicator light . In some embodiments the diagnostic light is a first color e.g. blue if the security system and or the communication system is connected to a wireless Internet network and is a second color e.g. red if the security system and or the communication system is not connected to a wireless Internet network. In some embodiments the power indicator is a first color if the security system is connected to a power source. The power source can be power supplied by the building to which the security system is attached. In some embodiments the power indicator is a second color or does not emit light if the security system is not connected to the power source.

As well the security system can include at least one speaker . The speaker can be located along any portion of the security system . For example the speaker can be located within an inner portion of the security system or along an outer portion of the security system . The speaker can be any type of sound output device configured to emit sound such as a digital speaker an analog speaker and the like.

Furthermore the security system e.g. a doorbell can include an outer housing which can be water resistant and or waterproof. The outer housing can be made from metal or plastic such as molded plastic with a hardness of 60 Shore D. In some embodiments the outer housing is made from brushed nickel or aluminum.

Rubber seals can be used to make the outer housing water resistant or waterproof. The security system can be electrically coupled to a power source such as wires electrically connected to a building s electrical power system. In some embodiments the security system includes a battery for backup and or primary power.

Wireless communication can enable the security system e.g. a doorbell to communicate with the computing device . Some embodiments enable communication via cellular and or WiFi networks. Some embodiments enable communication via the Internet. Several embodiments enable wired communication between the security system and the computing device . The wireless communication can include the following communication means radio WiFi e.g. wireless local area network cellular Internet Bluetooth telecommunication electromagnetic infrared light sonic and microwave. Other communication means are used by some embodiments. In some embodiments such as embodiments that include telecommunication or cellular communication means the security system can initiate voice calls or send text messages to a computing device e.g. a smartphone a desktop computer a tablet computer a laptop computer .

Some embodiments include computer software e.g. application software which can be a mobile application designed to run on smartphones tablet computers and other mobile devices. Software of this nature is sometimes referred to as app software. Some embodiments include software designed to run on desktop computers and laptop computers.

The computing device can run software with a graphical user interface. The user interface can include icons or buttons. In some embodiments the software is configured for use with a touch screen computing device such as a smartphone or tablet.

The user interface can include a connectivity indicator . In some embodiments the connectivity indicator can indicate whether the computing device is in communication with a security system the Internet and or a cellular network. The connectivity indicator can alert the user if the computing device has lost its connection with the security system the security system has been damaged the security system has been stolen the security system has been removed from its mounting location the security system lost electrical power and or if the computing device cannot communicate with the security system . In some embodiments the connectivity indicator alerts the user of the computing device by flashing emitting a sound displaying a message and or displaying a symbol.

In some embodiments if the security system loses power loses connectivity to the computing device loses connectivity to the Internet and or loses connectivity to a remote server a remote server sends an alert e.g. phone call text message image on the user interface regarding the power and or connectivity issue. In several embodiments the remote server can manage communication between the security system and the computing device. In some embodiments information from the security system is stored by the remote server . In several embodiments information from the security system is stored by the remote server until the information can be sent to the computing device uploaded to the computing device and or displayed to the remotely located person via the computing device . The remote server can be a computing device that stores information from the security system and or from the computing device . In some embodiments the remote server is located in a data center.

In some embodiments the computing device and or the remote server attempts to communicate with the security system . If the computing device and or the remote server is unable to communicate with the security system the computing device and or the remote server alerts the remotely located person via the software phone text a displayed message and or a website. In some embodiments the computing device and or the remote server attempts to communicate with the security system periodically at least every five hours and or less than every 10 minutes at least every 24 hours and or less than every 60 minutes or at least every hour and or less than every second.

In some embodiments the server can initiate communication to the computer device and or to the security system . In several embodiments the server can initiate control and or block communication between the computing device and the security system .

In several embodiments a user can log into an app website and or software on a computing device e.g. mobile computing device smartphone tablet desktop computer to adjust the security system settings discussed herein.

In some embodiments a computing device can enable a user to watch live video and or hear live audio from a security system due to the user s request rather than due to actions of a visitor. Some embodiments include a computing device initiating a live video feed or a video feed that is less than five minutes old .

In some embodiments the user interface displays an image such as a still image or a video of an area near and or in front of the security system . The image can be taken by the camera assembly and stored by the security system server and or computing device . The user interface can include a recording button to enable a user to record images videos and or sound from the camera assembly microphone of the security system and or microphone of the computing device .

In several embodiments the user interface includes a picture button to allow the user to take still pictures and or videos of the area near and or in front of the security system . The user interface can also include a sound adjustment button and a mute button . The user interface can include camera manipulation buttons such as zoom pan and light adjustment buttons. In some embodiments the camera assembly automatically adjusts between Day Mode and Night Mode. Some embodiments include an infrared camera and or infrared lights to illuminate an area near the security system to enable the camera assembly to provide sufficient visibility even at night .

In some embodiments buttons include diverse means of selecting various options features and functions. Buttons can be selected by mouse clicks keyboard commands and touching a touch screen. Many embodiments include buttons that can be selected without touch screens.

In some embodiments the user interface includes a quality selection button which can allow a user to select the quality and or amount of the data transmitted from the security system to the computing device and or from the computing device to the security system .

In some embodiments video can be sent to and or received from the computing device using video chat protocols such as FaceTime by Apple Inc. or Skype by Microsoft Corporation . In some embodiments these videos are played by videoconferencing apps on the computing device instead of being played by the user interface .

The user interface can include a termination button to end communication between the security system and the computing device . In some embodiments the termination button ends the ability of the person located near the security system i.e. the visitor to hear and or see the user of the computing device but does not end the ability of the user of the computing device to hear and or see the person located near the security system .

In some embodiments a button is both an answer button to accept a communication request from a visitor and is a termination button to end communication between the security system and the computing device . The button can include the word Answer when the system is attempting to establish two way communication between the visitor and the user. Selecting the button when the system is attempting to establish two way communication between the visitor and the user can start two way communication. The button can include the words End Call during two way communication between the visitor and the user. Selecting the button during two way communication between the visitor and the user can terminate two way communication. In some embodiments terminating two way communication still enables the user to see and hear the visitor. In some embodiments terminating two way communication causes the computing device to stop showing video from the security system and to stop emitting sounds recorded by the security system.

In some embodiments the user interface opens as soon as the security system detects a visitor e.g. senses indications of a visitor . Once the user interface opens the user can see and or hear the visitor even before answering or otherwise accepting two way communication in several embodiments.

Some method embodiments include detecting a visitor with a security system. The methods can include causing the user interface to display on a remote computing device due to the detection of the visitor e.g. with or without user interaction . The methods can include displaying video from the security system and or audio from the security system before the user accepts two way communication with the visitor. The methods can include displaying video from the security system and or audio from the security system before the user accepts the visitor s communication request. The methods can include the computing device simultaneously asking the user if the user wants to accept e.g. answer the communication request and displaying audio and or video of the visitor. For example in some embodiments the user can see and hear the visitor via the security system before opening a means of two way communication with the visitor.

In some embodiments the software includes means to start the video feed on demand. For example a user of the computing device might wonder what is happening near the security system . The user can open the software application on the computing device and instruct the application to show live video and or audio from the security device even if no event near the security system has triggered the communication.

In several embodiments the security device can be configured to record when the security device detects movement and or the presence of a person. The user of the computing device can later review all video and or audio records when the security device detected movement and or the presence of a person.

Referring now to in some embodiments the server controls communication between the computing device and the security system which can be a doorbell with a camera a microphone and a speaker. In several embodiments the server does not control communication between the computing device and the security system .

In some embodiments data captured by the security system and or the computing device such as videos pictures and audio is stored by another remote device such as the server . Cloud storage enterprise storage and or networked enterprise storage can be used to store video pictures and or audio from the communication system or from any part of the communication system . The user can download and or stream stored data and or storage video pictures and or audio. For example a user can record visitors for a year and then later can review conversations with visitors from the last year. In some embodiments remote storage the server the computing device and or the security system can store information and statistics regarding visitors and usage.

A wireless network can allow devices to wirelessly access the Internet. The security system can access the Internet via the wireless network . The wireless network can transmit data from the security system to the Internet which can transmit the data to remotely located computing devices . The Internet and wireless networks can transmit data from remotely located computing devices to the security system . In some embodiments a security system connects to a home s WiFi.

As illustrated in one computing device e.g. a laptop a smartphone a mobile computing device a television can communicate with multiple security systems . In some embodiments multiple computing devices can communicate with one security system .

In some embodiments the security system can communicate e.g. wirelessly with a television which can be a smart television. Users can view the television to see a visitor and or talk with the visitor.

Embodiments of the security system can be configured to alert individuals located outside of a building e.g. a home . For example the security system can be configured to flash a light emit a sound e.g. alternating high pitch and low pitch sounds initiate a communication session with a remote computing device and the like. These various alerts can be useful to individuals such as first responders seeking to identify the location of an event such as an emergency event s occurring within or outside the home. Home as used herein may refer to a building whereby one or more occupants sleep in the building on a permanent basis. Home may distinguishable from an office building by the lack of permanent occupants that sleep in the office building. Home may refer to an apartment building due to the permanent nature of an occupant for the duration of a lease. Home may be distinguishable from a hotel due to the lack of permanent occupants.

In various embodiments the security system can be communicatively coupled directly and or via the cloud to a communication device such as a hub device a communication system and or an event detection device such as a sensor e.g. a peripheral device such as a Nest Protect registered by Google Inc. Nest Learning Thermostat registered by Google Inc. DropCam registered by Google Inc. and the like. The communication device event detection device and or the security system can be used to monitor various events within the building e.g. home . Specifically the communication device and or event detection device can detect emergency events and then notify the security system . In some embodiments the communication device is communicatively coupled to the event detection device that detects the emergency event or adverse event which is discussed further herein . In this manner the security system may directly or indirectly receive a notification of the emergency event from the event detection device and or the communication device .

The security system can communicate with the communication device via a communication network . The communication network can be similar to the wireless communication however the communication network can be wired or wireless. In embodiments the communication network can utilize the existing electrical wires in the doorbell wires to communicate with the security system e.g. powerline networking . The communication network can also utilize a wired Local Area Network. In embodiments the communication network can include a Wide Area Network WAN that connects the communication device to the security system over the Internet.

In embodiments the communication device is a type of device that is configured to connect multiple devices and facilitate communication between the multiple devices. The security system may be a device that also is communicatively coupled to the communication device . The communication device may receive a transmission from one device i.e. an event detection device make a determination on what type of communication to perform e.g. an alert and transmit the communication to a second device e.g. the security system to take further action.

The security system can be configured to communicate with remote computing devices i.e. the computing device . The computing device may refer to a remote computing device in embodiments. The security system can initiate a communication session through the communication network by sending a request to the computing device to establish a secure connection e.g. a virtual private network to enhance security. In embodiments the communication session may also include an indication that an event as discussed further herein has been initiated.

The security system can have an outer housing . The outer housing may be configurable to attach to a building . The outer housing of the security system can attach to the building using a variety of permanent or temporary mounting mechanisms. In embodiments the permanent mounting mechanism may prevent the removal of the security system . The building may include a variety of structures. For example the building includes a home which is a type of building . The home can include various types of structures in various square footages. For example a home can be a wooden framed building with an exterior of stucco brick or siding. In embodiments a home can be distinguished from other types of buildings based on the livable area e.g. 500 square feet to 5000 square feet . In embodiments a home can also be defined as being a freestanding structure without shared walls. A home may also be defined by zoning constraints. For example the home may be zoned residential instead of commercial or industrial.

The outer housing can also include a visitor detection system coupled to the outer housing . The visitor detection system can be an assembly of components that are collectively configured to detect visitors in the immediate vicinity e.g. within 0.5 to 50 feet of the security system . The visitor detection system can include the doorbell button the camera assembly and an audio input device . In addition the visitor detection system can also include the motion detector and fingerprint sensor . The audio input device can be a device that captures audio e.g. a microphone . The audio input device can have various sensitivity ranges depending on the application. In embodiments the audio input device can include multiple microphones to extend the coverage area of audio capture. For example the audio input device can have one microphone on board the outer housing and receive input from another microphone located within the house e.g. through the communication network .

The outer housing may also include a deactivation unit . The deactivation unit can be a component that is communicatively coupled to the security system . The deactivation unit may be responsible for disabling the alert communication system . In embodiments the deactivation unit is part of the alert communication system . The alert communication system may work passively or actively. In an active configuration the security system can actively monitor for a command to deactivate. For example the security system can send activation status requested signal to a deactivation unit in regular intervals along with a unique randomized code and receive an activation True signal from the deactivation unit along with the unique randomized code. When communication is interrupted then a non response of the activation status may indicate activation True . When deactivated the deactivation unit transmits an activation False signal along with the unique randomized code. The actively monitoring for the command can be advantageous where communication is lost with the deactivation unit i.e. the communication is modified or the deactivation is spoofed by an intruder .

The deactivation unit may also passively monitor for the command. For example an occupant may input a command through the deactivation unit that is transmitted to the security system . The security system can receive the command passively. In embodiments the deactivation unit may also be communicatively coupled with a remote computing device . The deactivation command may originate from the remote computing device to deactivate the alert communication system in either actively or passively.

The outer housing can also include an alert communication system coupled to the outer housing . The alert communication system can be configurable to activate in response to an initiation of an event. For example an alert from the communication device that is transmitted to the security system can activate various components on the security system through the alert communication system . The alert communication system can include components to communicate alerts to a user e.g. an occupant of the home . In embodiments the alert communication system is the security system or part of the security system . In embodiments the alert communication system includes a light and a speaker . In embodiments the alert communication system refers to a collection of components for the purpose of alerting an occupant of the building . The alert communication system can also refer to a control unit for the components that alert an occupant of the building . The control of the alert communication system can be separate from the control for the security system . In embodiments the alert communication system is attached to an exterior surface of the home i.e. a building . The outer housing may be attached to an interior surface of the home i.e. a building . The remote computing device can be operated by the homeowner i.e. a type of occupant .

The speaker of the alert communication system can be configured to emit a sound in response to the initiation of the event. For example if the communication device transmits an alert that indicates an emergency then the security device can emit a sound in the speaker that indicates danger. The speaker can be configured to emit a wide range of sounds and various decibel levels depending on the application. For example a more severe alert can be louder than a less severe alert. The security system can alert an occupant of suspicious smoke by saying the location of the smoke and the time the smoke was detected.

The speaker can simply emit a voice that says Danger Danger Danger to alert an occupant of the building . The sound emitted by the security device can be unique to the type of alert. For example if a fire alert is transmitted by the communication device then the security device can emit a voice that says Fire Fire Fire and repeats at a set interval. Various sounds can also be used to selectively alert other occupants. For example a high frequency sound of 24 kHz to 45 kHz can selectively alert canine occupants of the building without alerting a human. In another example a sound from 17 kHz to 23 kHz may selectively alert children but not adults. Various patterns of sounds can also be produced. For example the SOS Morse code pattern may be used to indicate distress.

The light of the security system may be configurable to illuminate in response to the initiation of the event. The light can emit a variety of colors in a variety of patterns. For example the light can emit both a green light a white light and a red light. A green light can be lit during normal operation. A white light color can be used for ordinary alerts such as a power outage. A red light color can be used to indicate an imminent emergency that alerts the occupant to leave the building immediately. For example the red light color can be used to alert the occupant of a gas leakage or a fire or armed intruders.

In embodiments the light can flash at various frequencies to indicate a pattern. For example three short flashes followed by three long flashes followed by three short flashes can indicate distress. While rapid flashes can indicate a higher priority than slower flashes of light. The light can be coordinated with the speaker . For example the light can flash at the same time that the speaker makes a sound. The light can also flash before or after the emission of sound from the speaker .

The alert communication system can also include emission of an odor. The odor can be discernable by an occupant to know that something is wrong or can ward away an intruder. For example if the communication device alerts the security system of an intruder then a strong smell such as that of a skunk can trigger a silent alarm. Various smells can be used. For example flowery odors can be used for non urgent alerts such as a water leak while mercaptan based odors can be used for urgent alerts.

The alert communication system can include remote communication . The remote communication can be responsible for communicating with a remote computing device the status of the alarm. In embodiments the remote communication can be a module that communicates with a security monitoring service which can also have a dedicated communication channel that is different than the communication network in order to alert authorities in the event of a power outage.

In embodiments the security system is powered by an electrical power input . The electrical power input can be a battery. The electrical power input can also be from an electrical source such as from a household Alternating Current. The electrical power input can also be configured to receive a step down voltage e.g. around 8V to 24V from doorbell wires . The alert communication system may be electrically coupled to the electrical wires through the electrical power input . The electrical wires can be configurable to be coupled to the doorbell wires of a home e.g. the building . The alert communication system can be configurable to activate in response to a determination that an event has been initiated through the electrical wires . In embodiments the communication can happen over powerline networking. Various spikes in electrical signals from the electrical wires can also signal the alert communication system . In embodiments a lack of electrical signal from the electrical wires can also activate the alert communication system . For example the lack of electrical power input from the electrical wires can activate the alert communication system . The alert communication system can further utilize a backup battery system through the electrical power input and cause the light to emit white colored light so that an occupant can see.

The security system may be configured as a passive or active device. As a passive device the security system may receive notifications of emergency events from the communication device and or the event detection device . For example a smoke detector event detection device can transmit a smoke event to the communication device which may communicate to the security system an indication that the smoke event is occurring. The security system can be monitoring for notifications from the communication device whenever a communication channel is established.

As an active device the security system may be configured to actively monitor whether the communication device and or event detection device has detected the occurrence or initiation of an emergency event or adverse event . For example the security system can periodically request from the communication device a status of events. If there is no status then the security system can wait until another request is filled.

The security system may comprise an alert communication system that may include a light a speaker and a wireless communication system that may be configured to initiate a transmission with a remote computing device . For example the communication device may comprise a smart smoke detector e.g. Nest Protect registered by Google Inc. and in response to the smart smoke detector detecting elevated levels of smoke or elevated levels of other toxic gases the security system may activate its alert communication system e.g. flashing a light and or emit a sound . This may thereby alert individuals outside the home as to the location of the home where the emergency event is occurring.

As well it should be appreciated that the emergency event can comprise any type of event that may require the attention of another party. As used event can refer to an emergency event or an adverse event which indicates harm to an occupant or requires the attention of a party other than the occupant. For example the emergency event may comprise at least one of a fire a gas leak a break in elevated levels of smoke elevated levels of radon elevated levels of carbon monoxide and the like.

The alert communication system can be configured to alert individuals located outside the home in any variety of ways. For example the alert communication system can flash a bright light emitting diode and or a light located behind the doorbell button such as the diagnostic light on the security system . In some examples the alert communication system can emit a loud sound from the speaker . For example the loud sound can be alternating high and low pitch sounds that may be heard by individuals located within 300 feet of the home. The high and low pitch sounds can be of high and low frequencies that may be heard by individuals located within a neighboring home and or a vehicle passing by. The loud sound can be a unique sound easily detectable by individuals. As well the sound can comprise a noise that indicates danger or help is required.

Furthermore the alert communication system can be configured to initiate a transmission to a remote computing device . For example if the security system determines that a break in has occurred the security system may initiate a computing session and or a notification with the remote computing device to alert an individual that is operating the remote computing device of the break in at the home. As well it should be appreciated that the security system can initiate a transmission to any other party such as an emergency dispatcher e.g. 911 .

The security system may be configured to activate its alert communication system after a predetermined amount of time. The predetermined amount of time may be 0 seconds 10 seconds 20 seconds 1 minute and the like. Generally it should be appreciated that the alert communication system may activate nearly at the same time as the communication device detecting the emergency event or any time thereafter.

In block the security system can establish a connection with the communication system. As mentioned herein the communication device may utilize either a wired or wireless connection to communicate with the security system . For example a wireless home network that utilizes Wi Fi may be used or local Bluetooth pairing may be used. Once connection is established then the communication device may be configured to only communicate with security system at the ID provided by the security system . For example the security system may have a unique IPv6 address that the communication device transmits to. The communication device may also have a unique IPv6 address that the security system transmits to. The security system may also be configured to receive alerts from only the IPv6 address that belongs to the communication device thus preventing spoofing type alarms. Various permissions may be set up using an Application Programming Interface API of the communication device . For example the security system can be set up as a client with read write permissions which identifies the security system that has permission to share data with the communication device .

In block the security system may monitor for an event. In embodiments the security system monitors for an event from the communication device . For example the communication device may receive a notification of an event from an event detection device . In embodiments the security system can monitor for an event using localized components. For example the security system may have a camera that is used to monitor for suspicious activity. The event may be communicated with the communication device and the communication device may take appropriate action e.g. notify emergency services . As mentioned herein the types of events may be selected from at least one of a fire a gas leak a break in elevated levels of smoke elevated levels of radon elevated levels of carbon monoxide and the like.

The event detection device may detect an event using a variety of methods. For example various thresholds may be employed to detect an event . For example the elevated levels of smoke event can be based off of optical obscuration or electrostatic precipitation. The smoke can be based off of a threshold of parts per million or percentage of optical transmittance. The radon event can be based off of PicoCuries per Liter reading from a radon detection unit. The gas leak event can be based off of an 80 Lower Explosive Limit. Various gas detectors can be used e.g. electrochemical infrared point infrared imaging semiconductor ultrasonic holographic etc. . A fire event may be detected using temperature or a combination of readings from a smoke event and a carbon monoxide event . The break in event may utilize various sensors present in the security system or external sensors to the security system e.g. motion sensors . The event is associated with a home i.e. building and the doorbell i.e. security system is attached to the home of a homeowner.

In block the security system can determine whether an event has been initiated. The event may be initiated whenever the security system receives a transmission from a communication device communicatively coupled to the security system. The transmission may be over various forms of communication and provide an indication that the event has been initiated. The security system may monitor the communication system to detect whether the event has been initiated. In embodiments the security system e.g. the doorbell can interface with a remote computing device to further communicate to an occupant that there is an alert at the home. Communicating via the remote computing device may have the benefit of keeping occupants informed while away from the home. The security device can establish a communication session with a remote computing device in a similar manner as to the communication device . The communication session may include an indication that the event that has been initiated. For example an occupant can receive a communication of a fire alert on a local application on their remote computing device from the security system .

In block the security system can determine the alarm type. In embodiments block may be optional. Despite a variety of devices available to the security system not all devices or tools may be appropriate in certain settings. For example a non urgent alert such as elevated radon levels may not warrant a high pitched high volume noise in the middle of the night. The security system can balance the severity of the alert with the certainty for the alert. For example significant amounts of dust can trigger a smoke detector but the certainty of a fire can be determined using a carbon monoxide detector in conjunction with the smoke detector. The severity of a fire may be high but if the certainty that a fire is occurring is low then the security system can determine that another alarm type is more appropriate. Examples of determining an alarm type are described further herein.

In block the security system can activate the alert communication system in response to determining that the event has been initiated in block . In embodiments activating the alert communication system can include activating selected components of the alert communication system e.g. the speaker or the light . As mentioned herein the alert communication system can include a light which when the alert communication system is activated can cause the light to illuminate in a variety of patterns and colors. The alert communication system can also include a speaker that emits a sound in a variety of intensities frequencies and patterns. The activating can also include activating a control element for the alert communication system . The control element for the alert communication system can instigate a variety of patterns and alerts for multiple components e.g. a flashing light followed by emission of selected sound frequencies .

In block once the alert communication system is activated the security system can monitor for a command to deactivate the alert communication system . In embodiments block may be optional. For example a user of the security system may not desire the security system to alert occupants e.g. a false positive . The command can be a sequence of instructions that is understood by the security system to deactivate the alert communication system . In embodiments the command can be a button press and an audible predetermined message. For example an occupant can push a button e.g. the door bell button and speak an audible predetermined message such as Alarm Deactivate to deactivate the alert communication system . In various embodiments the deactivation unit can be configured to perform vocal recognition in order to distinguish between the voice of the occupant with the voice of a non occupant such as a prowler. Once the command is received then the method can continue to operation .

In block the security system can deactivate the alert communication system in response to receiving the command to deactivate the alert communication system. The alert communication system may be deactivated in a variety of ways. For example the alert communication system may deactivate e.g. turn off the current alert in response to the security system receiving an indication that the doorbell button has been pressed. In some embodiments the security system may be configured to turn off the alert communication system in response to receiving an audible predetermined message such as a spoken safety message or a spoken password that indicates that the event is being attended to or has ended. In some embodiments the security system can receive a deactivation command from the remote computing device . In this manner the individual operating the remote computing device may send a command through the remote computing device to terminate the ongoing alert. The deactivation of the alert communication system can include selectively deactivating less than all of the components of the alert communication system . For example the deactivating of the alert communication system can include deactivating only the localized communication i.e. the speaker and the light but not the remote communication with law enforcement e.g. a silent alarm .

The alarm type can also be based on threshold values. For example if the certainty of a fire is 20 but the severity is high the security system can create a score that is based on the severity and the certainty. The security system based on the score can determine the type of alarm. For example a high severity event with a low certainty may such as the fire may be associated with a sound to invite an occupant to investigate further. A high severity event such as a gas leak but with a higher certainty may trigger a red flash along with the sound. A low severity event such as a baby crying can trigger a different set of alarm types such as playing comforting music.

None of the steps described herein is essential or indispensable. Any of the steps can be adjusted or modified. Other or additional steps can be used. Any portion of any of the steps processes structures and or devices disclosed or illustrated in one embodiment flowchart or example in this specification can be combined or used with or instead of any other portion of any of the steps processes structures and or devices disclosed or illustrated in a different embodiment flowchart or example. The embodiments and examples provided herein are not intended to be discrete and separate from each other.

The section headings and subheadings provided herein are nonlimiting. The section headings and subheadings do not represent or limit the full scope of the embodiments described in the sections to which the headings and subheadings pertain. For example a section titled Topic 1 may include embodiments that do not pertain to Topic 1 and embodiments described in other sections may apply to and be combined with embodiments described within the Topic 1 section.

Some of the devices systems embodiments and processes use computers. Each of the routines processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computers computer processors or machines configured to execute computer instructions. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable storage medium or tangible computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory flash memory optical disc and or the like. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as e.g. volatile or non volatile storage.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method event state or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods steps and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks steps or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described tasks or events may be performed in an order other than the order specifically disclosed. Multiple steps may be combined in a single block or state. The example tasks or events may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Tasks or events may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list. Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

The term and or means that and applies to some embodiments and or applies to some embodiments. Thus A B and or C can be replaced with A B and C written in one sentence and A B or C written in another sentence. A B and or C means that some embodiments can include A and B some embodiments can include A and C some embodiments can include B and C some embodiments can only include A some embodiments can include only B some embodiments can include only C and some embodiments include A B and C. The term and or is used to avoid unnecessary redundancy.

While certain example embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein.

