---

title: Flexible spring member as well as gas spring assembly and method of manufacture
abstract: Flexible spring members can be dimensioned for securement to an associated gas spring end member. The flexible spring member can be at least partially formed from elastomeric material. The flexible spring member can also include a marking disposed along a surface thereof that includes one or more indicia. The marking can be at least partially formed by an indicia layer and an outer layer. The indicia layer can include one or more quantities of material that at least partially form the one or more indicia. The outer layer can be formed from a quantity of material that is disposed overtop of the indicia layer such that the one or more indicia of the indicia layer are substantially encapsulated. Gas spring assemblies, suspension systems, methods of manufacture and manufacturing systems are also included.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09644701&OS=09644701&RS=09644701
owner: Firestone Industrial Products Company, LLC
number: 09644701
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151222
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 959 661 filed on Aug. 5 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 679 621 filed on Aug. 3 2012 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The subject matter of the present disclosure broadly relates to the art of gas spring devices and more particularly to flexible spring members that includes a flexible wall and one or more indicia marked along a surface of the flexible wall. Such flexible spring members can be included in or otherwise form a part of gas spring assemblies and one or more of such gas spring assemblies can be included in or otherwise form a part of suspension systems. Methods of manufacturing flexible spring members in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure are also included.

The subject matter of the present disclosure may find particular application and use in conjunction with components for wheeled vehicles and will be shown and described herein with reference thereto. However it is to be appreciated that the subject matter of the present disclosure is also amenable to use in other applications and environments and that the specific uses shown and described herein are merely exemplary. For example the subject matter of the present disclosure could be used in connection with gas spring assemblies of non wheeled vehicles support structures height adjusting systems and actuators associated with industrial machinery components thereof and or other such equipment. Accordingly the subject matter of the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to use associated with gas spring suspension systems of wheeled vehicles.

Wheeled motor vehicles of most types and kinds include a sprung mass such as a body or chassis for example and an unsprung mass such as two or more axles or other wheel engaging members for example with a suspension system disposed therebetween. Typically a suspension system will include a plurality of spring devices as well as a plurality of damping devices that together permit the sprung and unsprung masses of the vehicle to move in a somewhat controlled manner relative to one another. Movement of the sprung and unsprung masses toward one another is normally referred to in the art as jounce motion while movement of the sprung and unsprung masses away from one another is commonly referred to in the art as rebound motion.

In some cases the spring devices of a suspension system of a wheeled motor vehicle can be of the type referred to as a gas spring assembly such as commonly have opposing end members with a flexible spring member secured therebetween in a substantially fluid tight manner to form a spring chamber. It is generally desirable for gas spring assemblies to include identifying information thereon such as manufacturer name model number serial number batch or lot number size characteristics and or load capacity for example. In some cases such information may be molded or otherwise formed into a flexible wall of the flexible spring member. In such cases however the identifying information will be of the same color as the material from which the flexible wall is made. As a result the identifying information on the flexible wall is often unreadable at distances of more than a few feet. Furthermore the identifying information on the flexible wall may be difficult to read even at distances of a few feet or less.

In other cases such identifying information may be printed directly on a flexible wall of the flexible spring member. Unfortunately the type and kind of marking compounds e.g. ink that are commonly used tend not to be sufficiently durable to withstand the environmental conditions typically associated with the use of gas spring assemblies on a motor vehicle suspension system. That is exposure to matter such as water salt dirt and other compounds as well as exposure to atmospheric conditions such as oxygen O ozone O and UV radiation typically cause the printed characters to be absorbed washed off faded or rendered otherwise unreadable. Thus potentially causing a repair technician to have to undertake additional and often time consuming efforts to determine the identifying information such as may be needed to procure a suitable replacement part or assembly for example.

Notwithstanding the common practice of marking the flexible wall of flexible spring members of gas spring assemblies it is believed that a need exists to advance the art of gas spring assemblies by developing marked flexible spring members having improved aesthetic appearance and or durability as well as methods and or techniques for performing achieving the same while still retaining comparable or improved performance ease of manufacture and or cost of manufacture.

One example of a flexible spring member in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure can be dimensioned for securement to an associated gas spring end member. The flexible spring member can be at least partially formed from elastomeric material and can have at least one of an inner surface and an outer surface. The flexible spring member can also include a marking disposed along at least one of the inner surface and the outer surface that includes one or more indicia. The marking can be at least partially formed by an indicia layer and an outer layer. The indicia layer can include one or more quantities of material that at least partially form the one or more indicia. The outer layer can be formed from a quantity of material that is disposed overtop of the indicia layer such that the one or more indicia of the indicia layer are substantially encapsulated along the one of the inner surface and the outer surface.

One example of a gas spring assembly in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure can include a flexible spring member and an end member. The flexible spring member can have a longitudinal axis and can extend peripherally about the axis and between longitudinally spaced apart ends. The flexible spring member can be at least partially formed from elastomeric material and have an inner surface and an outer surface. The flexible spring member can also include a marking disposed along one of the inner surface and the outer surface that includes one or more indicia. The marking can be at least partially formed by an indicia layer and an outer layer. The indicia layer can include one or more quantities of material that at least partially form the one or more indicia that are disposed on or along the one of the inner surface and the outer surface. The outer layer can be formed from a quantity of material that is disposed overtop of the indicia layer such that the one or more indicia are substantially encapsulated along the one of the inner surface and the outer surface. The end member can be secured across one of the longitudinally spaced apart ends such that a substantially fluid tight connection can be formed between the flexible spring member and the end member such that the flexible spring member and the end member can together at least partially define a spring chamber of the gas spring assembly.

One example of a suspension system in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure can include a pressurized gas system that includes a pressurized gas source and at least one control device. The suspension system can also include one or more gas spring assemblies according to the foregoing paragraph in fluid communication with the pressurized gas system.

One example of a method of manufacturing a gas spring assembly in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure can include providing a flexible spring member that is at least partially formed from elastomeric material and has a surface. The method can also include forming a marking having one or more indicia along the surface. The action of forming a marking can include applying one or more quantities of material on or along the surface to form an indicia layer that at least partially forms the one or more indicia. The action of forming a marking can also include applying a quantity of material on or along the surface to form an outer layer disposed overtop of the indicia layer such that the one or more indicia are substantially encapsulated. The method can also include providing an end member and securing the end member on or along the flexible spring member such that a substantially fluid tight seal is formed therebetween.

One example of a system operative to manufacture a flexible spring member in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure can include a base and a spindle rotatably supported on the base. The system can also include support members dimensioned to receivingly engage a flexible spring member. One or more dispensing heads can be disposed adjacent the spindle and operative to apply one or more materials and or compounds on or along the flexible spring member to at least partially form one or more of an indicia layer an outer layer and a base layer such that a marking can be formed on or along a surface of the flexible spring member.

In some cases one or more of the indicia of a marking according to any one or more of the five 5 foregoing paragraphs can be at least partially formed from a quantity of colorant material that has a contrasting color to a color of the elastomeric material and is visually observable by the human eye.

Turning now to the drawings it is to be understood that the showings are for purposes of illustrating examples of the subject matter of the present disclosure and are not intended to be limiting. Additionally it will be appreciated that the drawings are not to scale and that portions of certain features and or elements may be exaggerated for purposes of clarity and or ease of understanding.

The suspension system can also include a plurality of gas spring assemblies supported between the sprung and unsprung masses of the associated vehicle. In the arrangement shown in suspension system includes four gas spring assemblies one of which is disposed toward each corner of the associated vehicle adjacent a corresponding wheel WHL. However it will be appreciated that any other suitable number e.g. one or more of gas spring assemblies could alternately be used in any other configuration or arrangement. As shown in gas spring assemblies are supported between axles AXL and body BDY of associated vehicle VHC. Additionally it will be recognized that the gas spring assemblies shown and described in e.g. gas spring assemblies are illustrated as being of a rolling lobe type construction. It is to be understood however that gas spring assemblies of any other type kind and or construction could alternately be used such as a convoluted bellows type construction not shown for example.

Suspension system also includes a pressurized gas system operatively associated with the gas spring assemblies for selectively supplying pressurized gas e.g. air thereto and selectively transferring pressurized gas therefrom. In the exemplary embodiment shown in pressurized gas system includes a pressurized gas source such as a compressor for example for generating pressurized air or other gases. A control device such as a valve assembly for example is shown as being in communication with compressor and can be of any suitable configuration or arrangement. In the exemplary embodiment shown valve assembly includes a valve block with a plurality of valves supported thereon. Valve assembly can also optionally include a suitable exhaust such as a muffler for example for venting pressurized gas from the system. Optionally pressurized gas system can also include a reservoir in fluid communication with the compressor and or valve assembly and suitable for storing pressurized gas.

Valve assembly is in communication with gas spring assemblies through suitable gas transfer lines . As such pressurized gas can be selectively transferred into and or out of the gas spring assemblies through valve assembly by selectively operating valves such as to alter or maintain vehicle height at one or more corners of the vehicle for example.

Suspension system can also include a control system that is capable of communication with any one or more systems and or components not shown of vehicle VHC and or suspension system such as for selective operation and or control thereof. Control system can include a controller or electronic control unit ECU communicatively coupled with compressor and or valve assembly such as through a conductor or lead for example for selective operation and control thereof which can include supplying and exhausting pressurized gas to and or from gas spring assemblies . Controller can be of any suitable type kind and or configuration.

Control system can also optionally include one or more height or distance sensing devices not shown in such as for example may be operatively associated with the gas spring assemblies and capable of outputting or otherwise generating data signals and or other communications having a relation to a height of the gas spring assemblies or a distance between other components of the vehicle. Such height sensing devices can be in communication with ECU which can receive the height or distance signals therefrom. The height sensing devices can be in communication with ECU in any suitable manner such as through conductors or leads for example. Additionally it will be appreciated that the height sensing devices can be of any suitable type kind and or construction.

One example of a gas spring assembly including a flexible spring member in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure is shown in as gas spring assembly such as may be suitable for use as one or more of gas spring assemblies in for example. Gas spring assembly is shown as having a longitudinally extending axis AX and can include one or more end members such as an end member and an end member that is spaced longitudinally from end member . A flexible spring member can extend peripherally around axis AX and can be secured between the end members in a substantially fluid tight manner such that a spring chamber is at least partially defined therebetween.

Gas spring assembly can be disposed between associated structural components such as the sprung and unsprung masses of an associated vehicle for example in any suitable manner. As one example one end member can be operatively connected to the associated sprung mass with the other end member disposed toward and operatively connected to the associated unsprung mass. In the embodiment shown in for example end member is secured along a first or upper structural component USC such as could represent associated vehicle body BDY in for example and can be secured thereon in any suitable manner. For example one or more securement devices such as mounting studs for example can be included along end member . In some cases the one or more securement devices e.g. mounting studs can project outwardly from end member and can be secured thereon in a suitable manner such as for example by way of a flowed material joint not shown or a press fit connection not identified . Additionally such one or more securement devices can extend through mounting holes HLS in upper structural component USC and can receive one or more threaded nuts or other securement devices for example. As an alternative to one or more of mounting studs one or more threaded passages e.g. blind passages and or through passages could be used in conjunction with a corresponding number of one or more threaded fasteners.

Additionally one or more fluid communication ports can optionally be provided to permit fluid communication with spring chamber such as may be used for transferring pressurized gas into and or out of the spring chamber for example. In the exemplary embodiment shown a transfer passage extends through at least one of mounting studs and is in fluid communication with spring chamber . It will be appreciated however that any other suitable fluid communication arrangement could alternately be used.

End member can be secured along a second or lower structural component LSC such as could represent associated axle AXL in for example in any suitable manner. As one example lower structural component LSC could include one or more mounting holes HLS extending therethrough. In such case a mounting stud could be operatively connected to end member and could extend through one of mounting holes HLS to receive a corresponding threaded nut for example.

It will be appreciated that the one or more end members can be of any suitable type kind construction and or configuration and can be operatively connected or otherwise secured to the flexible spring member in any suitable manner. In the exemplary arrangement shown in for example end member is of a type commonly referred to as a bead plate that is secured to a first end of flexible spring member using a crimped edge connection . End member is shown in the exemplary arrangement in as being of a type commonly referred to as a piston or a roll off piston that has an outer side wall that abuttingly engages flexible spring member such that a rolling lobe is formed therealong. As gas spring assembly is displaced between extended and collapsed conditions rolling lobe is displaced along outer side wall in a conventional manner.

As identified in end member extends generally between a first or upper end and a second or lower end . One example of a connection between the flexible spring member and the end member is shown as including a second end of flexible spring member being secured on or along upper end of end member using an end closure . The end closure can be secured on or along end member in any suitable manner. In the exemplary embodiment shown a retaining nut is threadably secured on mounting stud and engages end closure . By securing mounting stud on end member such as by using a threaded nut for example the end closure can be drawn tight to upper end to thereby secure second end of the flexible spring member therebetween. In a preferred arrangement a substantially fluid tight seal can be formed between flexible spring member such as along second end thereof for example and at least one of end member and end closure . It is to be understood however that the arrangement shown and described is merely exemplary and that any other suitable construction and or configuration can alternately be used.

A jounce bumper can optionally be supported within spring chamber such as to inhibit direct contact between end members and for example. It will be appreciated that the jounce bumper if included can be supported on or along an end member in any suitable manner. For example jounce bumper is shown as being received on and retained by retaining nut .

A height or distance sensing device is optionally shown in as being disposed within spring chamber along end member and being secured thereto using suitable fasteners . Height sensing device can be of any suitable type kind and or construction such as an ultrasonic sensor that transmits and receives ultrasonic waves WVS for example. Additionally it will be appreciated that height sensing device can be connected to other systems and or components of a vehicle suspension system in any suitable manner. As shown in height sensing device includes a lead or connection that can be used for such communication purposes such as is indicated by leads of control system in for example.

Flexible spring member can include a flexible wall that can extend between longitudinally between ends and and peripherally about axis AX to at least partially define spring chamber . It will be appreciated that flexible wall can be formed in any suitable manner and from any suitable material or combination of materials such as by using or otherwise including one or more fabric reinforced elastomeric plies or layers not shown and or one or more un reinforced elastomeric plies or layers not shown for example. Typically one or more fabric reinforced elastomeric plies and one or more un reinforced elastomeric plies will be used together and formed from a common elastorneric material such as a synthetic rubber a natural rubber or a thermoplastic elastomer. In other cases however a combination of two or more different materials two or more compounds of similar materials or two or more grades of the same material could be used. In any case the elastomeric material or materials from which the plies are formed will have certain material and or mechanical properties such as a durometer or hardness property for example.

As identified in flexible wall includes an outer or cover ply an inner or liner ply and two reinforcing plies and . The reinforcing plies can be of any suitable construction and or configuration. For example reinforcing plies and can include one or more lengths of filament material that are at least partially embedded therein. It will be appreciated that the one or more lengths of filament material can be of any suitable type kind and or construction such as monofilament polymeric strands braided cotton yarn or bundled carbon fibers for example. Furthermore such one or more lengths of filament material could optionally be coated or otherwise treated such as for example to improve adhesion with the adjacent plies or other surrounding material. For example the filament material could be rubber coated such that upon applying a layer of rubber over the filament material improved adhesion between the various layers could result during and or after vulcanization for example. Additionally the one or more lengths of filament material can be oriented in any suitable manner such as for example by having the filaments of one ply disposed at one bias angle and the filaments of another ply disposed at a different bias angle.

Additionally a flexible spring member in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure can optionally include one or more mounting beads disposed along an end of the flexible wall. As illustrated in flexible spring member is shown as including two mounting bead with a mounting bead disposed along end and a mounting bead disposed along end . Additionally a flexible spring member in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure can optionally include at least one annular reinforcing element embedded within one or more of the ends of the flexible wall such as along the mounting beads thereof for example.

Flexible wall is shown as including an outer surface and an inner surface which can at least partially define spring chamber . In some cases at least a portion of outer surface can abuttingly engage outer side wall of end member such as may occur in connection with rolling lobe constructions for example.

Gas spring assemblies in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure such as gas spring assemblies and for example differ from conventional gas spring assemblies at least in that a gas spring assembly in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure includes a flexible spring member with a flexible wall or flexible wall portion that is marked with one or more indicia in one or more areas of the flexible wall or portion thereof. The one or more markings which can include one or more indicia in the one or more areas are are formed from two or more layers of material that are disposed on or along at least a portion of a surface of the flexible wall. Non limiting examples of indicia can include any number and or combination of one or more of graphics logos symbols machine readable data representations e.g. bar codes 2D data matrices text and or other identifying information such as may take the form of alpha numeric or other characters for example.

In the arrangement shown in for example flexible spring member of gas spring assembly includes a marking in the form of a plurality of indicia e.g. alphabetic characters that are arranged to form the FIRESTONE trademark. It will be appreciated however that any combination of other graphics logos symbols machine readable representations text numbers characters and or other identifying information could additionally or alternately be included. Additionally it will be appreciated that the one or more markings can be disposed in any number of one or more areas on or along the inner and or outer surfaces of the flexible spring member such as markings disposed in peripherally spaced and or axially spaced relation to one another.

The one or more markings that can be formed on or along the outer surface of a flexible spring member in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure can be formed from or otherwise include two or more coatings applications deposits and or layers any one or more of which may be referred to herein as layers either individually or in combination of material that are disposed in at least partially overlapping relation to one another. That is the two or more layers of material can be built up overtop of one another on or along an area of the flexible spring member to form a marking in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure. In a preferred arrangement one layer of material will be substantially encapsulated by one or more other layers of material. It will be appreciated however that other configurations and or arrangements could alternately be used.

As one non limiting example illustrate flexible spring member with marking that includes an indicia layer and an outer layer . Indicia layer includes one or more graphics logos symbols machine readable data representations text e.g. alphabetic numeric and or other characters and or other identifying information formed from one or more inks dyes paints stains and or other colorants having one or more colors and or from one or more appliques and or other sheet materials having one or more colors. In a preferred arrangement one or more of the colors in indicia layer will be colors that are different than the color of outer surface of flexible wall of flexible spring member . And in a more preferred arrangement the one or more colors of indicia layer will have a substantially high contrast and or visibility to the human eye relative to the color of outer surface such as white on black red on black and or yellow on black for example. In this manner the indicia formed on or along indicia layer can in a preferred arrangement be visually observable on the flexible spring member of the gas spring assembly.

Outer layer is shown in as being disposed over top of indicia layer and extending axially between layer edges and . In a preferred arrangement layer edges and are disposed axially outwardly of indicia layer . Additionally outer layer can in some cases extend peripherally about all or substantially all of outer surface between layer edges and . That is outer layer can in some cases form an endless annular layer or band around flexible spring member . In other cases outer layer can extend between peripherally spaced layer ends and . It will be appreciated however that in such case layer ends and are spaced peripherally outwardly from indicia layer such as is shown in for example.

Additionally or in the alternative a marking e.g. marking in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure can optionally include a base layer at least a portion of which is disposed on or along outer surface of flexible spring member . If provided base layer can extend axially between layer edges and . In some cases base layer can extend peripherally about all or substantially all of outer surface between layer edges and . In other cases base layer can extend between peripherally spaced layer ends and . In a preferred arrangement layer edges and of base layer if provided can be disposed axially outwardly of indicia layer such that the indicia layer is disposed on or along the base layer. Base layer can be formed from any suitable compound material or combination of compounds and or materials.

As indicated above base layer if provided can expand on or along the outer surface of the flexible wall of the flexible spring member. In a preferred arrangement base layer is disposed in direct contact with outer surface of flexible wall of flexible spring member . In this manner the base layer can inhibit or at least reduce the contamination discoloration and or degradation of indicia layer by oils waxes and or other compounds that may reside in or may otherwise be components of the flexible materials e.g. natural rubbers synthetic rubbers and or thermoplastic elastomers from which the flexible wall is at least partially formed. In some cases base layer can inhibit or at least reduce the migration of such oils waxes and or other compounds out of the material of the flexible wall. In this manner base layer can in some cases function to lock in or otherwise retain such oils waxes and or other compounds within the material of the flexible wall of the flexible spring member.

Outer layer can be disposed on or along at least a portion of indicia layer such that the indicia layer is at least partially covered by the outer layer. In a preferred arrangement however outer layer will substantially entirely cover indicia layer and will be disposed in direct contact with outer surface of the flexible wall and or another layer of marking such as base layer for example. In this manner indicia layer can be substantially entirely encapsulated by the outer layer together with any additional layers of marking that may be included.

As a non limiting example outer layer of marking is identified in as having a portion disposed in direct contact with indicia layer a portion disposed toward layer edge in direct contact with base layer and a portion disposed toward layer edge in direct contact with base layer . In such case indicia layer can be substantially encapsulated between outer layer and base layer . Additionally or in the alternative outer layer can optionally include a portion adjacent layer edge in direct contact with outer surface of flexible spring member and a portion adjacent layer edge in direct contact with the outer surface of the flexible spring member. In cases in which base layer is not provided portions and of outer layer can substantially encapsulate indicia layer . It will be appreciated that outer layer can be formed from any compound material or combination of compounds and or materials that may be suitable for protecting the indicia layer and or otherwise inhibiting or at least reducing contamination discoloration and or degradation of the indicia layer such as may occur due to exposure to matter such as water salt dirt and other compounds as well as exposure to atmospheric conditions such as oxygen O ozone O and or UV radiation. In a preferred arrangement outer layer can be formed from a transparent and or translucent material such that the one or more indicia of indicia layer can be visually observed by the human eye through the outer layer.

An alternate arrangement of flexible spring member is illustrated in and is identified as flexible spring member that includes a flexible wall with outer or cover ply inner or liner ply and reinforcing plies and . Flexible spring member is also shown as including outer surface and inner surface with a marking in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure disposed along outer surface . Marking includes an indicia layer and an outer layer such as have been described above in detail. Marking can also include a base layer that is disposed on or along flexible wall of flexible spring member . Base layer can include opposing surfaces and and can extend axially between layer edges and . In some cases base layer can extend peripherally about all or substantially all of flexible spring member between layer edges and . In other cases base layer can extend between peripherally spaced layer ends not shown such as have been illustrated in by layer ends and of base layer for example. In a preferred arrangement layer edges and of base layer can be disposed axially outwardly of indicia layer such that the indicia layer is substantially entirely disposed on or along the base layer. It will be appreciated that in some cases base layer can be used together with base layer and that in other cases base layer may be used as an alternative to base layer .

Base layer differs from base layer in that base layer is formed from a length or section of flexible material such as a natural rubber synthetic rubber or thermoplastic elastomer for example that has properties and or characteristics suitable for inhibiting or at least reducing the migration of such oils waxes and or other compounds out of the material of flexible wall of flexible spring member . In some cases base layer may be formed from a compound material or combination of compounds and or materials that contain reduced levels of oils waxes and or other elements which may minimize the migration of such elements into indicial layer . Additionally base layer can in some cases be formed from a material that can be assembled together with the other plies of flexible wall in an uncured condition and cured e.g. vulcanized together with the other plies to form a finished flexible wall or flexible wall assembly of flexible spring member . In such case base layer may be at least partially embedded within an adjacent ply of the flexible wall such as ply of flexible wall as is shown in for example. In such an arrangement surface and at least a portion of layer edges and can be disposed in direct contact with ply of flexible wall . In other cases base layer can be secured on or along the outer surface of the flexible spring member in a suitable manner such as by way of a flowed material joint not shown for example. In such cases surface can be disposed in abutting engagement with outer surface of the flexible spring member.

It will be appreciated that layers and are shown in as having exaggerated dimensions and spacing for purposes of ease of identification and understanding. The layers are not to scale and are as described herein generally intended to be in direct contact with one another. As such it is to be understood that the spaces shown between adjacent layers are merely to permit easy identification of individual layers and is not intended to illustrate a combination of layers that are disposed in spaced apart relation to one another.

Is it will be appreciated that layers and or can take any suitable form or configuration and can be applied on or along the flexible spring member in any suitable manner. As one example layers and as well as layer if provided can be applied as liquid or semi solid compounds. As another example layers and as well as one or more of layers and can take the form of one or more sections of sheet material that are applied along and adhered to or otherwise disposed along the outer surface of the flexible spring member. As a further example layers and or can be formed from a combination of liquid or semi solid compounds and one or more sections of sheet material.

One example of a system that is suitable for forming a marking in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure e.g. marking on or along a flexible spring member e.g. flexible spring member and or is shown in . System includes a base having a spindle that is rotatably supported on the base. A motor can drivably engage spindle to rotate the spindle around an axis AXR relative to base such as is represented in by arrows RT and RT. System also includes support members and that are supported on or along spindle and can be secured thereto in a manner suitable for rotation of the support members with the spindle. Support members and also include outer surfaces and respectively that are dimensioned to receive and abuttingly engage the opposing ends of a flexible spring member. In the arrangement shown in flexible spring member is shown as being disposed in abutting engagement with the support members with end disposed along outer surface and end disposed along outer surface . It will be appreciated however that other configurations and or arrangements could alternately be used.

System can also include one or more dispensing heads that may be suitable for spraying dispensing or otherwise applying a liquid or semi solid compound or material on or along the outer surface of the flexible spring member. In the arrangement shown in system includes a dispensing head suitable for spraying dispensing or otherwise applying compounds and or materials suitable for forming an indicia layer e.g. indicia layer on or along the flexible spring member. System can also include a dispensing head suitable for spraying dispensing or otherwise applying compounds and or materials suitable for forming an outer layer e.g. outer layer overtop of or otherwise at least partially covering the indicia layer. In some cases system can optionally include a dispensing head suitable for spraying dispensing or otherwise applying compounds and or materials suitable for forming a base layer e.g. base layer on or along the outer surface of the flexible spring member. It will be appreciated that rotation of the flexible spring member in the direction indicated by arrow RT will result in the sequential application of a base layer an indicia layer and an outer layer such as has been described above in connection with marking .

As indicated above indicia layer can be formed from one or more inks dyes paints stains and or other colorants having one or more colors and or from one or more appliques and or other sheet materials having one or more colors. One non limiting example of a suitable colorant for forming an indicia layer can include liquid colorant e.g. ink that is formulated to be ejected or otherwise delivered through conventional dispensing nozzles. As such dispensing head is shown as including a plurality of colorant reservoirs and that are in fluid communication with a dispensing nozzle . In a preferred arrangement reservoirs contain different colored colorants e.g. inks that can be dispensed in any suitable manner to print mark or otherwise generate an indicia layer such as indicia layer . System can also include a control system is communicatively coupled with motor and dispensing heads and . Control system can selectively operate motor to rotate flexible spring member and can selectively actuate dispensing heads and or to form the one or more layers of a marking in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure.

Another example of a system that is suitable for forming a marking in accordance with the subject matter of the present disclosure e.g. marking or on or along a flexible spring member e.g. flexible spring member and or is shown in . System includes a base having a spindle that is rotatably supported on the base. A motor can drivably engage spindle to rotate the spindle around an axis AXR relative to base such as is represented in by arrows RT and RT. System also includes a support member that is supported on or along spindle and can be secured thereto in a manner suitable for rotation of the support member with the spindle. Support member includes an outer surface that is dimensioned to receive and abuttingly engage an end of a flexible spring member. In the arrangement shown in flexible spring member is shown as being disposed in abutting engagement with the support member with end disposed along outer surface . It will be appreciated however that other configurations and or arrangements could alternately be used.

System can also include roller shafts and that are rotatably supported on base for rotation about axes AXS. Rollers and can be respectively supported on or along rollers shafts and . In some cases the rollers and or roller shafts can be freely rotatable about axes AXS. In other cases however one or more of the roller and roller shaft combinations can be driven such as by way of a motor for example which is shown in as drivably engaging roller shafts . A control system can be communicatively coupled with motors and or for selective operation thereof such as to rotate the flexible spring member about axis AXR of spindle .

Rollers and can include outer surfaces and are preferably spaced apart from one another such that a portion of flexible spring member can be disposed therebetween. In a preferred arrangement at least one of the outer surfaces of rollers and will abuttingly engage flexible spring member . In this manner a pre constructed marking or a pre constructed portion of a marking can be introduced between the outer surface of the flexible spring member and the outer surface of a roller such that the pre constructed marking or portion thereof can be biased against the outer surface of the flexible spring member by the roller and thereby applied to the flexible spring member. In the arrangement shown in for example at least a portion of a pre constructed marking MRK is disposed between outer surface of flexible spring member an outer surface of roller . As flexible spring member is rotated in the direction of arrow RT pre constructed marking MRK is applied to the flexible spring member. System can optionally include one or more dispensing heads that may be suitable for spraying dispensing or otherwise applying a liquid or semi solid compound or material on or along the outer surface of the flexible spring member. In the arrangement shown in system includes dispensing heads and may be suitable for spraying dispensing or otherwise applying compounds and or materials such as adhesives or bonding agents and or such as may be suitable for forming an indicia layer e.g. indicia layer an outer layer and or a base layer on or along the flexible spring member.

In some cases method can also optionally include drying or otherwise securing one or more of the layers. Method can further include providing one or more end members such as one or more of end members and or for example such as is represented in by item number . Method can also include securing the flexible spring member to one or more of the end members e.g. one or more of end members and or such as is represented by item number for example.

As used herein with reference to certain features elements components and or structures numerical ordinals e.g. first second third fourth etc. may be used to denote different singles of a plurality or otherwise identify certain features elements components and or structures and do not imply any order or sequence unless specifically defined by the claim language. Additionally the terms transverse and the like are to be broadly interpreted. As such the terms transverse and the like can include a wide range of relative angular orientations that include but are not limited to an approximately perpendicular angular orientation. Also the terms circumferential circumferentially and the like are to be broadly interpreted and can include but are not limited to circular shapes and or configurations. In this regard the terms circumferential circumferentially and the like can be synonymous with terms such as peripheral peripherally and the like.

Furthermore the phrase flowed material joint and the like if used herein are to be interpreted to include any joint or connection in which a liquid or otherwise flowable material e.g. a melted metal or combination of melted metals is deposited or otherwise presented between adjacent component parts and operative to form a fixed and substantially fluid tight connection therebetween. Examples of processes that can be used to form such a flowed material joint include without limitation welding processes brazing processes and soldering processes. In such cases one or more metal materials and or alloys can be used to form such a flowed material joint in addition to any material from the component parts themselves. Another example of a process that can be used to form a flowed material joint includes applying depositing or otherwise presenting an adhesive between adjacent component parts that is operative to form a fixed and substantially fluid tight connection therebetween. In such case it will be appreciated that any suitable adhesive material or combination of materials can be used such as one part and or two part epoxies for example.

Further still the term gas is used herein to broadly refer to any gaseous or vaporous fluid. Most commonly air is used as the working medium of gas spring devices such as those described herein as well as suspension systems and other components thereof. However it will be understood that any suitable gaseous fluid could alternately be used.

It will be recognized that numerous different features and or components are presented in the embodiments shown and described herein and that no one embodiment may be specifically shown and described as including all such features and components. As such it is to be understood that the subject matter of the present disclosure is intended to encompass any and all combinations of the different features and components that are shown and described herein and without limitation that any suitable arrangement of features and components in any combination can be used. Thus it is to be distinctly understood claims directed to any such combination of features and or components whether or not specifically embodied herein are intended to find support in the present disclosure.

Thus while the subject matter of the present disclosure has been described with reference to the foregoing embodiments and considerable emphasis has been placed herein on the structures and structural interrelationships between the component parts of the embodiments disclosed it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be made and that many changes can be made in the embodiments illustrated and described without departing from the principles hereof. Obviously modifications and alterations will occur to others upon reading and understanding the preceding detailed description. Accordingly it is to be distinctly understood that the foregoing descriptive matter is to be interpreted merely as illustrative of the subject matter of the present disclosure and not as a limitation. As such it is intended that the subject matter of the present disclosure be construed as including all such modifications and alterations.

