---

title: Polyphosphonate and copolyphosphonate additive mixtures
abstract: Disclosed are polymer compositions including polycarbonates, polyphosphonates, copoly(phosphonate carbonate)s, and organic salts and/or silicone containing compounds that exhibit a superior combination of properties compared to prior art.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09527984&OS=09527984&RS=09527984
owner: FRX Polymers, Inc.
number: 09527984
owner_city: Chelmsford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150309
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 448 031 entitled Polyphosphonates and Copolyphosphonates with Additive Mixtures filed Apr. 16 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 975 367 issued Mar. 10 2015 which claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 475 500 filed on Apr. 14 2011 entitled Polyphosphonate And Copoly Phosphonate Carbonate Additive Mixtures the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Embodiments include polymer compositions may including one or more polyphosphonate or one or more copolyphosphonate and one or more organic salts. Other embodiments are directed to articles of manufacture prepared from a polymer compositions having one or more polyphosphonate or one or more copolyphosphonate and one or more organic salts and still other embodiments are directed to methods for preparing polymer compositions including compounding one or more polyphosphonate or one or more copolyphosphonate and one or more organic salts.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each illustrated embodiment or every possible implementation of the present invention. The detailed description which follows particularly exemplifies these embodiments.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that they are not limited to the particular compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit their scope which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments disclosed the preferred methods devices and materials are now described.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

 Substantially no means that the subsequently described event may occur at most about less than 10 of the time or the subsequently described component may be at most about less than 10 of the total composition in some embodiments and in others at most about less than 5 and in still others at most about less than 1 .

The term alkyl or alkyl group refers to a branched or unbranched hydrocarbon or group of 1 to 20 carbon atoms such as but not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl t butyl octyl decyl tetradecyl hexadecyl eicosyl tetracosyl and the like. Cycloalkyl or cycloalkyl groups are branched or unbranched hydrocarbons in which all or some of the carbons are arranged in a ring such as but not limited to cyclopentyl cyclohexyl methylcyclohexyl and the like. The term lower alkyl includes an alkyl group of 1 to 10 carbon atoms.

The term aryl or aryl group refers to monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radicals or groups consisting of one or more fused rings in which at least one ring is aromatic in nature. Aryls may include but are not limited to phenyl napthyl biphenyl ring systems and the like. The aryl group may be unsubstituted or substituted with a variety of substituents including but not limited to alkyl alkenyl halide benzylic alkyl or aromatic ether nitro cyano and the like and combinations thereof.

 Substituent refers to a molecular group that replaces a hydrogen in a compound and may include but are not limited to trifluoromethyl nitro cyano C Calkyl aromatic or aryl halide F Cl Br I C Calkyl ether benzyl halide benzyl ether aromatic or aryl ether hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino NHR dialkylamino NR R or other groups which do not interfere with the formation of the diaryl alkylphosphonate.

As defined herein an arylol or an arylol group is an aryl group with a hydroxyl OH group substituent on the aryl ring. Non limiting examples of an arylol are phenol naphthalenol and the like. A wide variety of arlyols may be used in the embodiments of the invention and are commercially available.

The term alkanol or alkanol group refers to a compound including an alkyl of 1 to 20 carbon atoms or more having at least one hydroxyl group substituent. Examples of alkanols include but are not limited to methanol ethanol 1 and 2 propanol 1 1 dimethylethanol hexanol octanol and the like. Alkanol groups may be optionally substituted with substituents as described above.

The term alkenol or alkenol group refers to a compound including an alkene of 2 to 20 carbon atoms or more having at least one hydroxyl group substituent. The hydroxyl may be arranged in either isomeric configuration cis or trans . Alkenols may be further substituted with one or more substituents as described above and may be used in place of alkanols in some embodiments of the invention. Alkenols are known to those skilled in the art and many are readily available commercially.

The terms flame retardant flame resistant fire resistant or fire resistance as used herein means that the composition exhibits a limiting oxygen index LOI of at least 27. Flame retardant flame resistant fire resistant or fire resistance may also be tested by measuring the after burning time in accordance with the UL test Subject 94 . In this test the tested materials are given classifications of UL 94 V 0 UL 94 V 1 and UL 94 V 2 on the basis of the results obtained with the ten test specimens. Briefly the criteria for each of these UL 94 V classifications are as follows 

UL 94 V 0 the total flaming combustion for each specimen after removal of the ignition flame should not exceed 10 seconds and the total flaming combustion for 5 specimens should not exceed 50 seconds. None of the test specimens should release any drips which ignite absorbent cotton wool.

UL 94 V 1 the total flaming combustion for each specimen after removal of the ignition flame should not exceed 30 seconds and the total flaming combustion for 5 specimens should not exceed 250 seconds. None of the test specimens should release any drips which ignite absorbent cotton wool.

UL 94 V 2 the total flaming combustion for each specimen after removal of the ignition flame should not exceed 30 seconds and the total flaming combustion for 5 specimens should not exceed 250 seconds. Test specimens may release flaming particles which ignite absorbent cotton wool.

Fire resistance may also be tested by measuring after burning time. These test methods provide a laboratory test procedure for measuring and comparing the surface flammability of materials when exposed to a prescribed level of radiant heat energy to measure the surface flammability of materials when exposed to fire. The test is conducted using small specimens that are representative to the extent possible of the material or assembly being evaluated. The rate at which flames travel along surfaces depends upon the physical and thermal properties of the material product or assembly under test the specimen mounting method and orientation the type and level of fire or heat exposure the availability of air and properties of the surrounding enclosure. If different test conditions are substituted or the end use conditions are changed it may not always be possible by or from this test to predict changes in the fire test response characteristics measured. Therefore the results are valid only for the fire test exposure conditions described in this procedure.

The state of the art approach to rendering polymers flame retardant is to use additives such as brominated compounds or compounds containing aluminum and or phosphorus. Use of the additives with polymer can have a deleterious effect on the processing characteristics and or the mechanical performance of articles produced from them. In addition some of these compounds are toxic and can leach into the environment over time making their use less desirable. In some countries certain brominated additives are being phased out of use because of environmental concerns.

The term hydrolytic stability as used herein is defined as the ability of the polymer to resist hydrolysis in a water boil test. The ability to resist hydrolysis can be measured by the change in relative viscosity after exposure which is an indication in molecular weight change. For example a neat resin sample can be placed in pure water triple distilled for up to 168 hours under reflux conditions at normal pressure. The samples can be removed periodically and the relative viscosity can be determined by dissolving the sample in dichloromethane at 25 C. at a concentration of 0.5 g polymer liter and measuring the solution with an Ubbelohde viscometer. A significant change in the value after the water boils is indicative of a change in molecular weight of the polymer due to hydrolysis. A polymer with good hydrolytic stability would not exhibit a significant change in as a result of this test.

 Molecular weight as used herein can be determined by relative viscosity and or gel permeation chromatography GPC . Relative viscosity of a polymer is measured by dissolving a known quantity of polymer in a solvent and comparing the time it takes for this solution and the neat solvent to travel through a specially designed capillary viscometer at a constant temperature. Relative viscosity is a measurement that is indicative of the molecular weight of a polymer. It is also well known that a reduction in relative viscosity is indicative of a reduction in molecular weight and reduction in molecular weight causes loss of mechanical properties such as strength and toughness. GPC provides information about the molecular weight and molecular weight distribution of a polymer. It is known that the molecular weight distribution of a polymer is important to properties such as thermo oxidative stability due to different amount of end groups toughness melt flow and fire resistance for example low molecular weight polymers drip more when burned.

Polycarbonates PC are outstanding engineering thermoplastics that have an excellent combination of properties such as high heat distortion temperature HDT low color transparency melt processability and outstanding toughness. These materials are used in a wide variety of applications and are produced commercially on an enormous scale. However polycarbonates lack the requisite flame resistance and there is a demand and still a need for flame resistant PCs that also maintain their other advantageous properties. A variety of approaches have been undertaken to impart flame resistance to these materials but these approaches have been unsuccessful largely because they detract from the important inherent properties that PCs possess.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to polymer compositions including a mixture of one or more polyphosphonate and one or more organic salts and in some embodiments one or more polyphosphonate one or more polycarbonate and one or more organic salts. Other embodiments are directed to one or more copolyphosphonates and one or more organic salts and in further embodiments one or more copolyphosphonates one or more polycarbonates and one or more organic salts. Yet other embodiments are directed to one or more polycarbonates one or more copolyphosphonates and one or more organic salts.

In further embodiments these mixtures may further include an additional polymer and in other embodiments these mixtures which may or may not include an additional polymer may also include one or more silicon containing compounds. The copolyphosphonate s of various embodiments can be either random copolymers in which monomers of the copolyphosphonates of various embodiments are incorporated into polymer chain randomly or block copolymers in which polycarbonate portions and polyphosphonate portions of the copolymer are covalently linked. The polymer compositions of the invention generally provide improved flame resistance over polymer compositions including polycarbonate or copolycarbonate alone or mixtures of polycarbonate or copolycarbonate with organic salts. This improvement is better than would be expected based on the additive effect of a mixture including polycarbonates polyphosphonates and organic salts. Thus these mixtures may exhibit synergistic effects.

The polyphosphonates useful in embodiments may be any polyphosphonates known in the art including but not limited to those described U.S. Pat. No. 6 861 499 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 816 486 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. In certain embodiments the polyphosphonates may be characterized as exhibiting at least one and preferably all of a broad molecular weight distribution with polydispersities of 3.2 or greater 2.5 or greater and 2.3 or greater an Mof greater than about 10 000 using polystyrene standards and a Tof at least 100 C. In some embodiments the polyphosphonates may have a Tof about 25 C. to about 140 C. about 50 C. to about 135 C. or about 75 C. to about 130 C. In particular embodiments the polyphosphonates may be prepared from a aryl phosphonic acid ester and bisphenol A or a mixture of bisphenol A and other bisphenols and a phosphonium catalyst or an alkyl metal catalyst such as a sodium catalyst and may have a relative viscosity of at least 1.1 transparency and improved hydrolytic stability. Such polyphosphates may be branched polyphosphonates or linear or cyclic.

In some embodiments the amount of hydroxy aromatic to aryl phosphonic acid ester may be modified to affect properties of the polyphosphonates. For example a polyphosphonate prepared using a phosphonium catalysts such as for example tetraphenyl phosphonium phenolate exhibits a Tof at least 100 C. at least 105 C. at least 110 C. at least about 120 C. at least about 130 C. or at least about 140 C. These polyphosphonates may exhibit a weight average molecular weight M ranging from about 10 000 g mole to about 200 000 g mole about 12 000 g mole to about 150 000 g mole about 15 000 g mole to about 140 000 g mole about 20 000 g mole to about 100 000 g mole or any value between theses ranges based on polystyrene standards. In particular embodiments the weight average molecular weight M of about 10 000 g mole to about 100 000 g mole. In general such polyphosphonates may have a polymer dispersity of greater than about 3. In comparison branched polyphosphonates prepared from the same monomers using sodium phenolate as catalyst as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 331 614 exhibits a Tof only 90 C. an Mof 21 400 g mole and a dispersity of less than 2.

The term copolyphosphonate as used herein is meant to encompass copoly phosphonate carbonate s and copoly phosphonate esters and include block copoly phosphonate carbonate s random copoly phosphonate carbonate s block copoly phosphonate esters and random copoly phosphonate esters . The constituent components of such copolyphosphonates may include any type of phosphonate and carbonate components.

The random copolyphosphonate of various embodiments may be any random copolyphosphonate known in the art and include for example the random copolyphosphonates described in U.S. Provisional No. 61 383 697 and U.S. Provisional No. 61 383 686 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. In some embodiments the random copolyphosphonates may be prepared from at least 20 mole high purity optionally substituted diaryl alkylphosphonate one or more diphenyl carbonate and one or more bisphenol wherein the mole percent of the high purity diaryl alkylphosphonate is based on the total amount of transesterification components i.e. total diaryl alkylphosphonate and total diphenyl carbonate.

The phosphonate and carbonate content of the copolyphosphonates may vary among embodiments and embodiments are not limited by the phosphonate and or carbonate content or range of phosphonate and or carbonate content. For example in some embodiments the copolyphosphonates may have a phosphorus content that is indicative of the phosphonate content of from about 1 to about 15 by weight of the total copolyphosphonate and in other embodiments the phosphorous content of the copolyphosphonates of the invention may be from about 2 to about 12 or about 4 to about 10 by weight of the total polymer.

The copolyphosphonates of various embodiments exhibit both a high molecular weight and a narrow molecular weight distribution i.e. low polydispersity . For example in some embodiments the copolyphosphonates may have a weight average molecular weight M of about 10 000 g mole to about 100 000 g mole as determined by or GPC using polystyrene standards and in other embodiments the copolyphosphonates may have a Mof from about 12 000 to about 80 000 g mole as determined by or GPC using polystyrene standards. The narrow molecular weight distribution i.e. Mw Mn of such copolyphosphonates may be from about 2 to about 7 in some embodiments and from about 2 to about 5 in other embodiments. In still other embodiments the random copolyphosphonates may have a relative viscosity of from about 1.0 to about 1.75 about 1.1 to about 1.5 about 1.2 to about 1.4 or any value between these exemplary ranges. In further embodiments the copolyphosphonate may have a Tof about 25 C. to about 140 C. about 50 C. to about 135 C. or about 75 C. to about 130 C.

Without wishing to be bound by theory the use of high purity diaryl alkylphosphonate or optionally substituted diaryl alkylphosphonate and in particular embodiments high purity diphenyl methylphosphonate DPP in the preparation of the copolyphosphonates of the invention may provide improved properties over random copolymers of the prior. The high purity optionally substituted diaryl alkylphosphonate and DPP of various embodiments may include total acidic components of less than about 0.15 by weight less than about 0.10 by weight and in certain embodiments less than about 0.05 by weight. Such acidic components are known in the art and may include but are not limited to phosphoric acid phosphonic acid methyl phosphonic acid and methyl phosphonic acid mono phenylester. In some embodiments the random copolyphosphonates may include substantially no acidic component contaminants and in other embodiments the random copolyphosphonates may include for example total acidic components of less than about 0.15 by weight less than about 0.10 by weight and in certain embodiments less than about 0.05 by weight.

The random copolyphosphonates of the invention generally exhibit high molecular weight and narrow molecular weight distribution which in turn may impart a superior combination of properties. For example the random copolyphosphonates of embodiments are generally tough extremely flame retardant and exhibit superior hydrolytic stability. In addition the copolyphosphonates of embodiments generally exhibit an excellent combination of processing characteristics including for example good thermal and mechanical properties.

The block copolyphosphonates useful in embodiments of the invention may be any block copolyphosphonate known in the art. For example the block copoly phosphonate carbonate s and block copoly phosphonate ester s may be those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 645 850 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In general the block copolyphosphonates may include at least one phosphonate oligomer or polyphosphonate and one or more oligoester or polyester or oligocarbonate or polycarbonate covalently linked to the at least one phosphonate oligomer or polyphosphonate to form a poly block phosphonato ester or poly block phosphonato cabonate . In some embodiments the at least one phosphonate oligomer or poly phosphonate and one or more polyester or polycarbonate may be linked to one another by transesterification or polycondensation and in certain embodiments the poly block phosphonato ester and or poly block phosphonato cabonate may have a single glass transition temperature T .

The phosphonate oligomer or polyphosphonate of the block copolyphosphonates before incorporation into the block copolyphosphonate may have a solution viscosity of from about 1.03 to greater than about 1.35 and may have a Tof from about 25 C. to about 140 C. In some embodiments the phosphonate oligomer or polyphosphonate may be branched or linear and can be prepared with up to about 50 mol. branching agent. In other embodiments the phosphonate oligomer of polyphosphonate may have a molecular weight M of from about 2 000 g mol to about 35 000 g mol and in certain embodiments the phosphonate oligomer or polyphosphonate may be prepared from at least a stoichiometrically imbalanced mixture of a phosphoric acid diaryl ester and a bisphenol.

Either commercial or custom synthesized branched or linear polycarbonates may be suitable for use in embodiments of the invention. In some embodiments the polycarbonates may have a relative viscosity of at least about 1.2 or from about 1.02 to about 1.2 in certain embodiments. Non limiting examples of commercially available polycarbonates may be those available under the trade names Lexan General Electric Company Makrolon Bayer AG Apec Bayer AG Hiloy ComAlloy Calibre Dow Chemical Co. Lupilonx Mitsubishi Naxell MRC Polymers Edgetek PolyOne Trirex Kasei and Panlite Teijin Chemicals . It should be understood that any polycarbonate available now or in the future may be used in embodiments of the method presented herein.

Custom polycarbonates may be prepared by any method known in the art. For example custom polycarbonates may be synthesized from diphenyl carbonate and any known bisphenol using a transesterification catalyst and in the case of branched polycarbonates a branching agent or by an interfacial polycondensation process using phosgene and any bisphenol with or without a branching agent. A variety of bisphenols can be used in such reactions and a compilation of known bisphenols readily available and well known to those skilled in the art including those containing heterocyclic structures can be found in Engineering Plastics A Handbook of Polyarylethers by Robert J. Cotter Gordon and Breach Science Publishers S.A. Switzerland 1995. For example bisphenols may include but are not limited to resorcinol hydroquinone 4 4 biphenol 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane bisphenol A 3 3 biphenol 4 4 dihydroxyphenyl ether 4 4 dihydroxydiphenylsulfone 9 9 dihydroxyphenyl fluorine 1 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 3 dimethyl 5 methylcyclohexane 4 4 dihydroxybenzophenone 4 4 dihydroxyphenyl sulfide 1 methyl 1 phenyl bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane bis 3 hydroxyphenyl methane bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane 9 9 bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl fluorene 9 9 bis 3 5 dimethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl fluorine 1 4 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 propyl benzene 1 4 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dimethylphenyl 2 propyl benzene 4 4 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl diphenyl methane 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl hexafluoroisopropylidene 1 trifluoromethyl 1 phenyl bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane and combinations thereof.

Any organic salt known in the art may be used in polymer compositions embodied and described herein. An organic salt as used herein encompasses any compound formed by the reaction between an organic acid and an inorganic base. All such organic acids are encompassed by various embodiments. In certain embodiments the organic salt may be a sulfonic acid which as defined herein encompasses organic compounds including the structure R SOOH in which the sulfur atom S is bonded to a carbon atom that may be part of a large aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbon R and also bonded to three oxygen atoms O one of which has a hydrogen atom H attached to it. The hydrogen atom makes the compound acidic much as the hydrogen of a carboxylic acid. However carboxylic acids are weak with dissociation constants of about 10 sulfonic acids are considered strong acids with dissociation constants of about 10 .

In various exemplary embodiments the organic salt may be the salts identified in U.S. Pat. No. 3 940 366 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Exemplary organic salts include but are not limited to sodium 2 5 difluorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 4 5 tribromobenzenesulfonate sodium p iodobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 4 dibromo 5 fluorobenzenesulfonate calcium 2 5 dichlorobenzenesulfonate disodium 2 5 dichlorobenzene 1 3 disulfonate sodium 4 4 dibromobiphenyl 3 sulfonate disodium 1 4 dichloronaphthalene x y disulfonate disodium 2 2 dichloro 1 1 bis 4 chloro phenyl ethylene 3 3 disulfonate Sodium 2 4 dinitrobenzenesulfonate calcium 2 chloro 5 nitrobenzenesulfonate calcium 3 trifluoromethyl benzenesulfonate sodium 3 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl benzenesulfonate lithium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate lithium p bromobenzenesulfonate barium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate potassium 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonate magnesium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate strontium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 chloro 4 cyanobenzenesulfonate calcium 3 chloro 4 methylbenzenesulfonate sodium 4 chloro 3 methylbenzenesulfonate sodium 3 5 dichloro 2 methylbenzenesulfonate sodium 3 trifluoromethyl 5 ar pentachlorobenzyl benzenesulfonate sodium 2 chloro 4 trifluorovinyl benzenesulfonate sodium 4 bromo dichlorostilbenesulfonate potassium tetrakis 4 chlorophenyl ethylene 3 sulfonate sodium 4 2 3 4 5 6 4 heptachlorotriphenylmethane 3 sulfonate disodium 1 1 1 trichloro 2 4 cyanophenyl 2 4 chlorophenyl ethanesulfonate sodium 2 2 bis 4 chlorophenyl hexafluoropropane 3 sulfonate lithium 9 10 dichloroanthracenesulfonate sodium 1 3 6 8 tetrachloropyrene 4 sulfonate sodium 2 3 dichlorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 3 4 trichlorobenzenesulfonate sodium pentachlorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 3 5 6 tetrachlorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 3 4 5 tetrabromobenzenesulfonate trisodium 2 4 6 trichlorobenzene 1 3 5 trisulfonate p fluorobenzene sulfonic acid 2 3 4 5 tetrafluorobenzenesulfonic acid pentafluorobenzenesulfonic acid p chlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 4 dichlorobenzenesulfonic acid p bromobenzenesulfonic acid 2 5 dibromobenzenesulfonic acid 2 bromo 4 chlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 chloro 4 bromobenzenesulfonic acid 2 bromo 5 chlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 chloro 5 bromobenzenesulfonic acid 2 3 4 trichlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 4 6 trichlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 3 4 5 tetrachlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 3 5 6 tetrachlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 3 4 6 tetrachlorobenzenesulfonic acid pentachlorobenzenesulfonic acid 1 chloronaphthalene x sulfonic acid 1 x dichloronaphthalene y sulfonic acid 1 bromonaphthalene x sulfonic acid 4 5 dichlorobenzene 1 3 disulfonic acid and combinations thereof. In other embodiments the organic salts may be sodium or calcium salts of oligomeric or polymeric sulfonic acids such as but not limited to sodium or calcium salts of poly monochlorostyrene sulfonic acid containing one sulfonate group per 5.4 phenyl rings.

In particular embodiments the organic salt may be potassium diphenylsulfone sulfonate KSS and sodium trichlorobenzene sulfonate STB potassium perfluorobutane sulfonate KPFBS p toluenesulfonic acid sodium salt NaTS poly styrenesulfonic acid sodium salt and similar salts as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 346 574 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety fluoroalkylsulfonamidate salts such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 518 347 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety potassium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzene potassium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate and combinations thereof. Quantities of such organic salts known to be useful in the polymer arts are known in the art and any concentration of organic salt sufficient to provide flame resistance may be used in embodiments. For example in certain embodiments the organic salts may be provided at about 0.01 wt. to about 1.0 wt. .

In further embodiments a co additive may be provided along with the organic salts to improve for example clarity of the resulting polymer and or processability. Examples of co additives that provide such properties include but are not limited to octaphenylcyclotetrasiloxane poly methyl siloxane poly methylphenyl siloxane halogenated organic additives such as tetrabromobenzene hexachlorobenzene and hexabromobenzene and biphenyls such as 2 2 dichlorobiphenyl 2 4 dibromobiphenyl 2 4 dichlorobiphenyl hexabromobiphenyl octabromobiphenyl decabromobiphenyl and halogenated diphenyl ethers containing 2 to 10 halogen atoms. Generally small quantities of such co additives are necessary to produce the desired result. For example in various embodiments less than 1.0 wt. or less than 0.5 wt. of such co additives may be provided in the polymer compositions.

Similarly any known silicone containing additive may be provided in the polymer compositions described herein. For example in various embodiments the silicone containing additive may be octaphenylcyclotetrasiloxane polymethylphenylsiloxane polymethyl phenyl methoxy siloxane poly phenylsilsesquioxane or any combination these or other silicone containing additives. The silicone containing additive can be provided at any concentration sufficient to provide a beneficial effect and the skilled artisan can determine this concentration using well accepted methods. In certain exemplary embodiments the concentration of silicone may be from about 0.001 wt. to about 1.0 wt. .

In some embodiments the polymer compositions of the invention may further include one or more anti dripping agents. Anti dripping agents are well known in the art and any anti dripping agent may be used in the compositions described herein. For example in particular embodiments the anti dripping agent may be one or more fluorinated polyolefins such as polytetrafluoroethylene or a blend of polytetrafluoroethylene and styrene acrylonitrile copolymer TSAN . In such embodiments the polytetrafluoroethylene may be provided at a concentration of from about 0.001 wt. to about 1.0 wt. although the skilled artisan may provide more or less anti dripping agent to produce the desired activity.

In still other embodiments the polymer compositions described above including one or more copolyphosphonates one or more polycarbonates and one or more organic salts and or in some embodiments a silicone containing compound may further include an additional polymer or engineering plastic. Additional polymers that may be combined with the polymer compositions described herein include but are not limited to plastics polyacrylonitriles polystyrenes polyamides glass filled or non glass filled polyamides more specifically PA 6 PA 6.6 PA 4.6 polyesters glass filled or non glass filled polyester more specifically polyethylene terephthalate PET polybutylene terephthalate PBT poly trimethylene terephthalate polyurethanes polyureas polyepoxys polyimides polyarylate poly arylene ether polyethylene polyethylene oxide polyphenylene sulfide polypropylene polyphenylene oxide PPO poly vinyl ester polyvinyl chloride bismaleimide polymer polyanhydride polyacrylonitrile butadiene styrenes ABS ABS PCs high impact polystyrenes HIPS PPO HIPS liquid crystalline polymer cellulose polymer or combinations thereof. The additional polymer may be blended with the polymer using any mixing blending or compounding method known in the art such as but not limited to melt mixing. Engineering plastics as used herein include both thermoplastics and thermosetting resins and may include but are not limited to epoxies derived polymers polyepoxies e.g. polymers resulting from the reaction of one or more epoxy monomer or oligomer with one or more chain extender or curing agent such as a mono or multifunctional phenol amine benzoxazine anhydride or combination thereof benzoxazines polyacrylates polyacrylonitriles polyesters such as poly ethylene terephthalate poly trimethylene terephthalate and poly butylene terephthalate unsaturated polyesters polyamides polystyrenes including high impact strength polystyrene polyureas polyurethanes polyphosphonates polyphosphates poly acrylonitrile butadiene styrene s polyimides polyarylates poly arylene ether s polyethylenes polypropylenes polyphenylene sulfides poly vinyl ester s polyvinyl chlorides bismaleimide polymers polyanhydrides liquid crystalline polymers cellulose polymers or any combination thereof commercially available from for example Sabic Plastics Pittsfield Mass. Rohm Haas Co. Philadelphia Pa. Bayer Corp. Polymers Akron Ohio Reichold DuPont Huntsman LLC West Deptford N.J. BASF Corp. Mount Olive N.J. Dow Chemical Co. Midland Mich. GE Plastics DuPont Bayer DuPont ExxonMobil Chemical Corp. Houston Tex. ExxonMobil. Mobay Chemical Corp. Kansas City Kans. Goodyear Chemical Akron Ohio BASF Corp. 3M Corp. St. Paul Minn. Solutia Inc. St. Louis Mo. DuPont and Eastman Chemical Co. Kingsport Tenn. respectively . In particular embodiments the copoly phosphonate carbonate s of the invention may be combined with polyepoxies.

In other embodiments the polymer compositions described above may include one or more additional components or additives commonly used in the art such as for example fillers fibers surfactants organic binders polymeric binders crosslinking agents coupling agents aramid fibres lubricants mould release agents such as pentaerythritol tetrastearate nucleating agents antistatic agents such as conductive blacks carbon fibers carbon nanotubes and organic antistatic agents such as polyalkylene ethers alkylsulfonates and polyamide containing polymers catalysts colorants inks dyes antioxidants stabilizers impact agents flame retardants and the like and any combinations thereof. In such embodiments the one or more additional components or additives may make up from about 0.001 wt. to about 30 wt. about 0.05 wt. to about 25 wt. about 0.5 wt. to about 20 wt. about 1.0 wt. to about 15 wt. or about 1.5 wt. to about 10 wt. based on the total composition.

In some embodiments the polymer compositions described above can be used alone as an engineering polymer or as additives that are combined with other polymers to provide flame resistance without detracting from other important properties. Certain embodiments include articles of manufacture and coatings prepared from the polymer compositions of the invention alone or in combination with another polymer. In still other embodiments engineering polymers of the polymer compositions may be combined with a reinforcement material such as for example glass carbon silicon carbide organic fibers and the like and combinations thereof to produce composites having an advantageous combination of fire resistance and dimensional stability while maintaining high HDT near that of the unmodified engineering polymer.

The polymer compositions described above including any of the components identified can be prepared by conventional means. For example in some embodiments the respective constituents can be mixed in a known manner and subjected to melt compounding and or melt extrusion at temperatures such as about 200 C. to about 400 C. in customary aggregates such as internal kneaders extruders or twin screw apparatuses. Mixing the individual constituents can be affected either successively or simultaneously and at about room temperature about 20 C. or at higher temperature. For example in some embodiments the copolyphosphonate and organic salt and or all additional components or additives can be introduced into the polycarbonate by compounding. In other embodiments the individual constituents can be introduced separately in different stages of the preparation process into the melt copolyphosphonate or melt polycarbonate. The form of addition of the compounds according to the invention is not limited. For example the engineering plastics and or additional components or additives can be added as solids such as a powder as concentrate in a polycarbonate powder solution. In industrial embodiments a side extruder may be operated with a throughput of for example 200 1000 kg of the polymer composition per hour.

The polymer compositions of the invention can be used as coatings or adhesives or they can be used to fabricate articles such as free standing films prepregs fibers foams molded articles and fiber reinforced composites. In the case of fiber reinforced composites the reinforcement may be in the form of continuous woven or chopped fibers including but not limited to glass carbon silicon carbide and organic fibers or combinations thereof. These articles may be well suited for a variety of applications as support parts electrical components electrical connectors electrical housings electrical covers electrical insulators printed wiring laminated boards housings covers brackets support structures enclosures and subcomponents and components in consumer products that must meet UL or other standardized fire resistance standards.

The polymer compositions of the invention are generally self extinguishing i.e. they stop burning when removed from a flame and any drops produced by melting in a flame stop burning are almost instantly extinguished and do not readily propagate fire to any surrounding materials. Moreover these polymer compositions do not evolve noticeable smoke when a flame is applied.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred versions contained within this specification. Various aspects of the present invention will be illustrated with reference to the following non limiting examples.

Into 250 L reactor equipped with a distillation column and mechanical stirrer was placed 75 kg 328.95 mol. 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane bisphenol A 26.10 kg 105.24 mol. high purity methylphosphonic acid diphenyl ester DPP 49.5 kg 231.31 mol. diphenyl carbonate and 55 g tetraphenylphosphonium phenolate TPPOP catalyst which is a chemical complex of tetraphenylphosphonium phenolate and phenol consisting of about 70 and about 30 of each respectively m.p 145 C. . Analysis of the DPP prior to performing this reaction indicated that this batch contained acidic 0.03 acidic components. The mixture was heated to 250 C. while reducing the pressure from 700 to 4 mm Hg over about 5 hours period. The distillate collected was 59.6 kg. The product of this mixture was oligo carbonate phosphonate.

Then the mixture was heated from 250 to 300 C. while reducing the pressure from 10 to 1.5 mm Hg over about 5 hours period. Approximately 3 kg of distillate was collected over the course of this reaction. The random copoly phosphonato carbonate product was extruded out of reactor into a water bath to form a strand that was subsequently palletized. The yield of the copolymer product out of the reactor was 79.3 kg of a transparent yellowish color and tough random copolymer. The characterization data were listed in Table below.

Various polymer compositions including poly carbonate PC or random copolyphosphonate having 35 mol. phosphonate CO 35 and potassium perfluorobutane sulfonate Rimar salt or 3 Phenylsulfonylbenzenesulfonic acid potassium salt KSS were prepared. The components were combined in the amounts provided in TABLE 4 and the compositions were compounded in Werner and Pfleider ZS B25 extruder with regular PC screw configuration. Compounding conditions are provided in TABLE 2 

As indicated in TABLE 4 polycarbonate PC test samples burned easily at all thicknesses tested whereas CO35 alone exhibited a UL 94 rating of V 0 and showed good flame retardancy. The addition of Rimar salt or KSS improved the flame retardancy of PC to provide a UL 94 rating of V 0 at 1.6 mm and 0.8 mm thicknesses but provided a UL 94 rating of V 2 at test thicknesses of 0.4 mm. These data suggest that the addition of organic salts to PC provides limited improvement in flame retardancy in thicker samples but the organic salts failed to provide adequate flame retardancy in thinner test samples.

CO35 alone exhibits excellent flame retardancy V 0 under UL 94 conditions. The addition of organic salts improved the performance by decreasing dripping. Specifically the dripping was reduced in samples including CO35 and Rimar salt Sample 4 as compared to CO35 alone Sample 3 .

Various polymer compositions including polycarbonate PC random copolyphosphonate having 35 mol. phosphonate CO 35 and potassium perfluorobutane sulfonate Rimar salt or 3 Phenylsulfonylbenzenesulfonic acid potassium salt KSS were prepared. The various components were combined in the amounts provided in TABLE 5 and the compositions were compounded in Werner and Pfleider ZS B25 extruder with regular PC screw configuration. Compounding conditions are set forth in TABLE 2 above and molding conditions are provided in TABLE 3 above. Data gathered from testing of these polymer compositions are provided in TABLE 5. Compositions including copoly phosphonato carbonate and PC with KSS and Rimar salt show excellent flame retardancy V 0 under UL 94 good mechanical properties not shown and decreased dripping. As such these polymer compositions provide an improvement over the prior art.

