---

title: Supine cycle
abstract: A therapeutic muscle exercise device for assisting subjects in maintaining and regaining muscle tone through the use of functional electrical stimulation has an extremity support and a functional electrical stimulation controller. The extremity support is mounted on a mobile support which allows the device to be easily used when the subject is laying on a bed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09511256&OS=09511256&RS=09511256
owner: RESTORATIVE THERAPIES, INC.
number: 09511256
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150515
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 994 957 filed on May 18 2014 with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and entitled SUPINE CYCLE. The application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to a training device for rehabilitation of individuals confined to a bed. More particularly the present invention relates to a device to assist patients perform leg or arm exercises while lying on their back.

Critical illness creates new physical cognitive and mental health impairments that compounds pre existing dysfunction. Intensive care unit ICU acquired weakness is one of the most important and common results of critical illness. More than 50 of ICU survivors suffer cognitive impairment and 30 report anxiety and depression or have persistent post traumatic stress disorder symptoms in the 2 years following their ICU discharge. Only 50 resume work by 1 year and 69 are still restricted in performing daily activities. These issues are collectively called post intensive care syndrome. They affect up to 70 of Intensive Care Unit ICU survivors are often long lasting. Acute ICU based rehabilitation has been shown to be feasible safe and to improve patient important outcomes.

There is a need for devices that assist patients who cannot stand or sit such as patients in ICU in conducting leg exercises to maintain or gain muscle tone and abilities. Patients typically need to be moved to utilize machines that provide exercise assistance. Such machines require either that the patient be moved in bed or even lifted from a hospital or patient bed onto the machine.

One object of the present invention is to provide an exercise device that allows a patient to maintain leg muscle tone and abilities without requiring repositioning of the patient in bed. As shown on the figures one embodiment of the present invention provides an exercise machine that can slide above the surface of a patient s bed in order to allow the patient to conduct supine leg or arm cycle training. The machine does not require that the patient be moved onto a machine or repositioned in bed and thus makes it much easier to treat patients who require treatment without the risks and time involved with moving the patient.

The invention summarized above may be better understood by referring to the following description the accompanying drawings and the claims listed below. This description of an embodiment set out below to enable one to practice an implementation of the invention is not intended to limit the preferred embodiment but to serve as a particular example thereof. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that they may readily use the conception and specific embodiments disclosed as a basis for modifying or designing other methods and systems for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. Those skilled in the art should also realize that such equivalent assemblies do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention in its broadest form.

As shown in one embodiment of the present invention comprises a therapeutic muscle exercise device also referred to herein as a supine cycle used to treat patients who are not capable of walking sitting or standing. The supine cycle comprises a cycling base that is mounted on a mobile support . In some embodiments the mobile support is an expandable table as explained in more detail below that fits over a hospital bed allowing the cycle to be brought to the patient.

The cycling base has a first extremity support and a second extremity support . It is contemplated that in some embodiments a single extremity support may be included to facilitate treatment of subjects who have lost a limb. Each extremity support and are attached to the cycling base by a first rotating arm and a second rotating arm respectively. Each rotating arm as a extremity support end and a base end .

The rotating arms and attach to the extremity supports and at a extremity support pivot point and . The configuration allows the foot of the subject to rotate as normally as it would when performing a cycling motion naturally. The base ends and connect to the cycling base at a base pivot point . In a preferred embodiment the base pivot point comprises a shaft that passes through a channel that extends through the base the shaft connects the base end of the first rotating arm to the base end of the second rotating arm . In such embodiment the shaft then rotates uniformly around the base pivot point . In other embodiments the rotating arms may connect to two independently rotatable shafts at the base pivot point allowing the extremity supports and to rotate independently of one another.

The cycling base also includes a support boom that provides support for two calf supports . In some embodiments the calf supports and are connected to the extremity supports and though an attachment link . In other embodiments the calf supports and may not be linked to the extremity supports and . The support boom in some embodiments includes a set of pulleys that allow a support cord to provide support for the calf supports and . In addition the support boom provides support for a lead cable that encases the various leads used to provide functional electrical stimulation FES to the subject s muscles.

The device also includes a functional electrical stimulation controller . The controller manages the electrical impulses provided to the subject s muscles through a series of leads which are connected to the controller through a lead cable . The controller also controls a motor not shown that controls the speed of rotation of the rotating arms and . The controller coordinates the rotation of the rotating arms and in conjunction with functional electrical stimulation through the leads depending on the level of need of the subject. In some instances the controller will direct full movement of the rotating arms and in conjunction with electrical stimulation resulting in fully FES evoked movement. In the alternative the controller may reduce the level of assistance provided by the motor and the electrical stimulation allowing volitional movement by the subject. In yet a further embodiment the controller will not provide any assistance in order to allow the subject to rotate the extremity supports without assistance. The controller provides such assistance as needed by the subject and directed by the user.

In one preferred embodiment the cycling base is mounted on a mobile support . The purpose of the mobile support is to allow a practitioner to slide the cycling base above the bed where a subject is laying without having to remove the base and place it on the bed. Many different types of mobile support combinations may be used. In one exemplary embodiment as shown here mobile support has a main base and two horizontally extendible arms and . The extendible arms and are attached to two rolling and telescoping legs . The dual telescoping legs provide significant stability to device .

The telescoping legs in one preferred embodiment are placed on rolling boards . For stability the rolling boards may be placed on rolling wheels . As understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art any types of wheels may be used including wheels that have breaking mechanisms to prevent the unit from moving once engaged. The mobile support may also include latches that allow the user to lock the unit in place and prevent it from sliding even when the wheel brakes are engaged. One particular advantage of the supine cycle described herein is the capability to expand the table in order to avoid obstacles under the bed. As shown on the figures the supine cycles is placed on a moveable base or table that can slide over the patient s bed. It is configured however so that it will have no protrusions under the bed that may interfere with the use of the supine cycle.

As described above the controller is configured to optionally provide FES. FES relates to electrical stimulation applied to peripheral nerves to produce a function. Reversing muscle atrophy and bone loss are the primary clinical benefits of neuromuscular electrical stimulation. Increases in bone density are directly related to the level of torque generated by the muscle.

In one embodiment a method for exercising a subject s lower extremities is provided. According to this embodiment the system continuously rotates at the set speed and it either assists or resists the patient s efforts. The patient s efforts are either volitional or evoked by FES. In a first step of the method the system s motor moves the subject s lower extremities and the controller provides initial muscle electrical stimulation. This first step can be referred to as a warm up step. In a subsequent step referred to as active transition the controller increases muscle electrical stimulation and reduces motor assistance until the muscle takes over movement of the extremity supports or 100 stimulation threshold is reached. In a subsequent step referred to as the active step electrical stimulation evokes coordinated muscle contractions as the rotating arms and turn around the pivot point resulting in the subject s muscles performing the cycling motion. The combination of the rotating arms and connected at the pivot point is also referred to herein as the crank. Once muscle fatigue is reached and or detected by the controller electrical stimulation is reduced and the motor of the cycling base takes over for cycling motion. In a final step referred to as cool down the motor completely takes over cycling motion allowing subject s muscles to rest while permitting movement through the range of motion.

In another embodiment the cycle crank moves to set positions to position the muscles for isometric contractions which are FES evoked. The approximate length for optimal contraction is determined for each muscle. The length tension curve determines the force generated by the muscle at a given electrical activation. A muscle should be at the peak of the length tension curve in order to gain the optimal increase in muscle mass. In addition an isometric contraction generates a greater force per a given activation of the muscle by electrical stimulation because of the resistance to the contraction provided. For optimal clinical benefit the cycle is positioned at the coordinates that places each muscle group at their optimal muscle length and stops so an isometric contraction occurs. For each individual the coordinates are determined based on extensors and flexors of each joint for each joint. Muscles are stimulated when the crank reaches the coordinates relative the joint position. Multiple muscles of the right and left leg are stimulated simultaneously as appropriate.

According to a different embodiment a device and method for exercising a subject s upper extremities is provided. Referring to the present embodiment may have an overall configuration similar to the lower extremity embodiment described with reference to but wrist and hand supports and may be provided in place of extremity supports and . According to a preferred embodiment wrist and hand supports may be configured to attach to rotating arms and in place of extremity supports and . Alternatively a shorter or longer set of rotating arms and may be substituted for rotating arms and at base pivot point and subsequent attachment to wrist and hand supports and . According to this upper extremity embodiment boom may be rotated out of the way as shown in .

According to the method of this embodiment in a first step of the method the system s motor moves the subject s upper extremities and the controller provides initial muscle electrical stimulation. This first step can be referred to as a warm up step. In a subsequent step referred to as active transition the controller increases muscle stimulation and reduces motor assistance until the muscle takes over movement of the arm supports or 100 stimulation threshold is reached. In a subsequent step referred to as the active step electrical stimulation evokes coordinated muscle contractions as the crank rotates resulting in the subject s muscles performing the arm cycling motion. Once muscle fatigue is reached and or detected by the controller electrical stimulation is reduced and the motor of the cycling base takes over for cycling motion. In a final step referred to as cool down the motor completely takes over cycling motion allowing subject s muscles to rest while permitting movement through the range of motion. In this embodiment the patient can we supine with different angles of back support for example the patient could be arm cycling while fully supine propped up at a 45 degree angle or fully seated at close to a 90 degree angle. In order for the electrical stimulation to be correctly coordinated with the crank rotation and position of the arms it is essential that the electrical stimulation control algorithm make allowance for the seating angle. This is done by rotating the position of top dead center for the stimulation counter clockwise with respect to the position of mechanical top dead center. As an example if the patient is lying in bed with their back propped up to a 45 degree angle the position of electrical top dead center will be rotated counter clockwise by 45 degrees with respect to mechanical top dead center.

The invention has been described with references to a preferred embodiment. While specific values relationships materials and steps have been set forth for purposes of describing concepts of the invention it will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the basic concepts and operating principles of the invention as broadly described. It should be recognized that in the light of the above teachings those skilled in the art can modify those specifics without departing from the invention taught herein. Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiments and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with such underlying concept. It is intended to include all such modifications alternatives and other embodiments insofar as they come within the scope of the appended claims or equivalents thereof. It should be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth herein. Consequently the present embodiments are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

