---

title: Method and apparatus for providing notification
abstract: An electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes: a transceiver configured to receive, from at least one wearable device, information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is being worn; and a processor configured to determine whether the at least one wearable device that is being worn, based on the received information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is being worn, and to provide a notification to the at least one wearable device in response to determining that the at least one wearable device is being worn.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09629120&OS=09629120&RS=09629120
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09629120
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150910
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 719 520 filed on May 22 2015 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 590 699 filed on Jan. 6 2015 in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office which claims priority from Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0062622 filed on May 23 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and application also claims priority from Korean Patent Application No. 10 2015 0018873 filed on Feb. 6 2015 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

Methods and apparatuses consistent with exemplary embodiments relate to providing a notification from an electronic device.

Various types of electronic devices such as smartphones smart watches smart glasses and tablet personal computers PCs have been developed. Situations or environments in which various types of electronic devices are used may vary according to the features thereof. Also different types of electronic devices are often used together such that communication can be established therebetween. For example a smartphone and a smart watch may be used together such that communication can be established therebetween.

A user may receive various types of notifications while using an electronic device. For example the user may receive various types of notifications such as a text message an email a message of a messenger application etc. Accordingly there is a need to develop a method of appropriately providing a notification to a user when the user uses various types of electronic devices together.

One or more exemplary embodiments relate to preventing a notification that a user is not likely to check from being provided.

One or more exemplary embodiments relate to increasing a probability that a user will immediately check a notification.

One or more exemplary embodiments relate to providing a notification such that a user is not interrupted by the notification.

One or more exemplary embodiments provide a wearable device with a notification in an appropriate form when an electronic device and the wearable device operate while communicating with each other.

According to an aspect of an exemplary embodiment there is provided an electronic device including a transceiver configured to receive from at least one wearable device information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is being worn and a processor configured to determine whether the at least one wearable device is being worn based on the received information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is being worn and to provide a notification to the at least one wearable device in response to determining that the at least one wearable device is being worn.

The processor may be configured to in response to determining that any one of the at least one wearable device is not being worn control the transceiver to provide the notification via the electronic device.

The processor may be configured to control the transceiver to provide the notification to a device that is in use from among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device.

The processor may be configured to in response to determining that the at least one wearable device is not being worn suspend providing of the notification until the processor detects that one of the at least one wearable device is being worn.

The processor may be configured to in response to a device being in use from among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device determine whether the notification is permitted to be provided to the device that is in use while a function is performed by the device that is in use and control the transceiver to provide the notification to the device that is in use based on the determination of whether the notification is permitted to be provided to the device.

The processor may be configured to obtain information regarding a remaining charge capacity of a battery of the determined wearable device that is being worn via the transceiver and control the transceiver to provide the notification to the determined wearable device that is being worn in response to the remaining charge capacity of the battery of the determined wearable device that is being worn by the user being equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold.

The electronic device may also include a sensor configured to sense a state of the electronic device and the processor may be configured to obtain information regarding a state of the at least one wearable device via the transceiver and determine a form of the providing of the notification based on at least one selected from the state of the electronic device and the state of the at least one wearable device.

The processor may be configured to transform a notification request protocol which is to be transmitted to the determined wearable device being worn that is to be provided with the notification based on at least one selected from an operating system and a protocol of the determined wearable device being worn by the user that is to be provided with the notification.

The processor may be configured to control the transceiver to provide the notification to a plurality of devices among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device and cancel the providing of the notification with respect to remaining devices in response to a device among the plurality of devices to which the notification is provided checking the notification.

According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment there is provided a method of providing a notification from an electronic device to at least one wearable device capable of communicating with the electronic device the method including obtaining information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is being worn and determining weather the at least one wearable device is being worn based on the obtained information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is being worn and providing the notification to the at least one wearable device in response to determining that the at least one wearable device is being worn.

The method may further include providing the notification via the electronic device in response to any one of the at least one wearable device not being worn.

The method may further include providing the notification to a device that is in use from among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device to provide the notification.

The method may further include in response to the at least one wearable device not being worn suspending the providing of the notification until one of the at least one wearable device is being worn.

The method may further include in response to a device being in use from among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device determining whether the notification is permitted to be provided to the device that is in use while a function is performed by the device that is in use and providing the notification to the device that is in use based on the determining.

The method may further include obtaining information regarding a remaining charge capacity of a battery of the determined wearable device that is being worn.

The providing of the notification may include providing the notification to the determined wearable device that is being worn in response to the remaining charge capacity of the battery of the determined wearable device that is being worn by the user being equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold.

The method may further include sensing a state of the electronic device obtaining information regarding a state of the at least one wearable device and determining a form of the providing of the notification based on at least one selected from the state of the electronic device and the state of the at least one wearable device.

The method may further include transforming a notification request protocol which is to be transmitted to the determined wearable device that being worn that is to be provided with the notification based on at least one selected from an operating system and a protocol of the determined wearable device being worn by the user that is to be provided with the notification.

The method may further include providing the notification to a plurality of devices among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device and canceling the providing of the notification with respect to remaining devices in response to a device among the plurality of devices to which the notification is provided checking the notification.

According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment there is provided a wearable device including a transceiver configured to communicate with at least one electronic device a processor configured to obtain information indicating whether the wearable device is being worn and a notification providing unit configured to provide a notification in response to the information indicating whether the wearable device is being worn indicates that the wearable device is being worn.

The processor may be configured to in response to the wearable device not being worn request that the at least one electronic device to provide the notification.

The advantages and features of the present inventive concept and methods of accomplishing them will be apparent from exemplary embodiments that will be described below and the accompanying drawings. The present inventive concept may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein. Rather these exemplary embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the present inventive concept to those of ordinary skill in the art. The spirit and scope of the present inventive concept are defined by the appended claims.

The terms used herein will be briefly described and then the present inventive concept will be described in detail.

In the present disclosure general terms that have been widely used nowadays are selected if possible in consideration of functions of the present inventive concept but non general terms may be selected according to the intentions of technicians in the this art precedents or new technologies etc. Also some terms may be arbitrarily chosen by the present applicant. In this case the meanings of these terms will be explained in corresponding parts of the present disclosure in detail. Thus the terms used herein should be defined not based on the names thereof but based on the meanings thereof and the whole context of the present inventive concept.

In the present disclosure it should be understood that the terms such as include or have etc. are intended to indicate the existence of the features numbers steps actions components parts or combinations thereof disclosed in the specification and are not intended to preclude the possibility that one or more other features numbers steps actions components parts or combinations thereof may exist or may be added. Also the term unit should be understood as software or a hardware element such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The term unit is capable of performing functions. However the term unit is not limited to software or hardware. The term unit may be an element that can be configured to be included in an addressable storage medium or can be configured to reproduce one or more processors. Thus examples of the term unit may include elements such as software elements object oriented software elements class elements and task elements processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware micro codes circuits data a database data structures tables arrays and variables. Functions provided in elements and units may be combined using a smaller number of elements and units or may be subdivided using additional elements and units.

As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Expressions such as at least one of when preceding a list of elements modify the entire list of elements and do not modify the individual elements of the list.

Hereinafter exemplary embodiments of the present inventive concept will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings so that those of ordinary skill in the art can easily accomplish them. Also parts that are not related to describing the present inventive concept are omitted in the drawings for clarity.

According to one or more exemplary embodiments the electronic device and the at least one wearable device operate while communicating with each other. According to the current exemplary embodiment the at least one wearable device may provide a notification regarding a notification event occurring in the electronic device and the electronic device may provide a notification regarding a notification event occurring in the at least one wearable device .

The electronic device may be embodied for example as a smartphone a tablet personal computer PC a camera a television a home system control device an automobile etc.

The at least one wearable device may be embodied for example as a smart watch smart glasses smart earphones smart shoes a smart ring a smart bracelet etc.

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification occurs in the electronic device or the at least one wearable device the notification may be provided by the at least one wearable device the electronic device or both the electronic device and the at least one wearable device based on whether the at least one wearable device is worn or not by a user.

According to one exemplary embodiment the number of the electronic device may be one and the number of the at least one wearable device may be one or more.

The notification event may be an event that a notification should be immediately provided to a user. Examples of the notification event include receiving a phone call receiving a text message receiving a messenger application message receiving an email a schedule notification a notification of a social network service SNS application notifications of various other applications operating system notification etc. According to one exemplary embodiment a form of the notification event may be set by a user based on a setting menu of the electronic device .

According to the current embodiment the electronic device includes a processor a notification providing unit e.g. a notification provider and a communication unit e.g. a transceiver .

The processor controls overall operations of the electronic device . According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor detects a notification event and determines a device that will provide a notification regarding the notification event. A device that will provide the notification regarding the notification event may be one or more devices selected from among the electronic device and at least one wearable device that communicates with the electronic device . The processor may obtain information indicating whether the wearable device is worn from the wearable device through a specific channel established by using the communication unit that will be described later.

The processor may determine the device that will provide the notification regarding the notification event based on information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn by a user. According to one exemplary embodiment the processor provides the notification to the at least one wearable device when the at least one wearable device is in a wearing state and provides the notification using the notification providing unit of the electronic device when the at least one wearable device is in a non wearing state. In one exemplary embodiment when the notification is provided to the at least one wearable device the electronic device may also provide the notification or may not provide the notification.

In the present disclosure the term wearing state means a state in which a user wears the at least one wearable device and the term non wearing state means a state in which the user does not wear the at least one wearable device .

According to one exemplary embodiment the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn includes sensing values of sensors included in the at least one wearable device . The sensing values may include for example a value indicating whether a locking structure is fastened information regarding motion detection a bio signal etc. According to the present exemplary embodiment the processor may determine whether the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state based on the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn.

According to another exemplary embodiment the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn is information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state. According to the current exemplary embodiment whether the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state is determined.

According to one exemplary embodiment the processor may receive the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn by requesting the at least one wearable device to provide this information.

According to another exemplary embodiment the at least one wearable device may periodically transmit this information to the electronic device and the electronic device may store this information in a storage unit not shown thereof. The processor may obtain the information stored in the storage unit to determine a device to which the notification regarding the notification event is to be provided.

When the electronic device is determined to provide the notification the notification providing unit provides the notification. The notification may be provided for example in the form of sound vibration turning on of a screen flickering of a light emitting diode LED etc.

The communication unit communicates with at least one wearable device . The communication unit may transmit a control signal a signal indicating the state of the electronic device or data to the at least one wearable device or receive a control signal a signal indicating the state of the at least one wearable device or data from the at least one wearable device .

When it is determined that the at least one wearable device provides the notification or both the electronic device and the at least one wearable device provide the notification the processor transmits a notification request to the at least one wearable device to provide the notification via the communication unit . When receiving the notification request from the electronic device the at least one wearable device provides the notification.

According to one exemplary embodiment the notification request may include information regarding the type of the notification contents of the notification and form of the notification. The type of the notification may include for example a text message a phone call an email a messenger message an SNS notification an application notification etc. The contents of the notification may include for example the transmitter and contents of a text message the caller of the phone call the transmitter and contents of a messenger message the contents of an SNS notification the contents of an application notification etc. Also the contents of the notification may include an icon a picture text and or other graphic or the like to be displayed when the notification is provided. The form of the notification may include for example sound vibration turning on of a screen flickering of an LED etc.

As described above according to exemplary embodiments whether the wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state may be determined by the processor of the electronic device or the at least one wearable device . For example it is determined that the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state in a case in which a locking structure of the at least one wearable device is fastened and a reference time or less passes after a motion of the at least one wearable device is detected a case in which a reference time or less passes after a bio signal is detected by the at least one wearable device or a case in which the locking structure of the at least one wearable device is fastened and a bio signal is detected from the at least one wearable device .

Whether the locking structure of the at least one wearable device is fastened may be determined using a sensing value of a sensor included in the locking structure of the at least one wearable device . Examples of the sensor included in the locking structure may include a conductive sensor a hall sensor a magnetic sensor etc.

A motion of the at least one wearable device may be detected using a motion sensor or an acceleration sensor included in the at least one wearable device .

The at least one wearable device may include a biosensor that detects a bio signal and is thus capable of detecting a bio signal. Examples of the biosensor may include a heart rate sensor a pulse sensor a blood pressure sensor a sweat sensor a body temperature sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor etc.

According to the current exemplary embodiment the notification providing unit may include at least one selected from among a vibration unit a speaker a display unit and an LED . In one exemplary embodiment the vibration unit e.g. a vibrator the speaker the display unit and the LED may be selectively included.

The vibration unit generates vibration in the electronic device of by using a motor or the like. According to the current exemplary embodiment when the vibration unit provides a notification in the form of vibration the vibration unit may provide the notification in the form of vibration having a predetermined pattern.

The speaker outputs sound. According to the current exemplary embodiment when the notification is provided in the form of sound the speaker may output preset notification sound. According to one exemplary embodiment the type of the notification sound may be preset by a user. According to one exemplary embodiment the type of the notification sound may be preset based on the type of a notification event.

The display unit displays various images thereon. According to the current exemplary embodiment when the notification is provided by turning on a screen of the display unit or in the form of message the screen of the display unit is turned on or a notification message may be displayed on the display unit at a time of point that the notification is provided.

According to the current embodiment the communication unit may include at least one selected from a Bluetooth low energy BLE module a Bluetooth module a near field communication NFC module a radio frequency RF module and a mobile communication module . In one exemplary embodiment the BLE module the Bluetooth module the NFC module the RF module and the mobile communication module may be selectively included.

The mobile communication module may transmit or receive a phone call or a text message or establish data communication via a mobile communication network. An example of the mobile communication network includes a communication network using at least one selected from among second generation mobile communication e.g. Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global system for Mobile communication GSM or Personal Digital Cellular PDC third generation mobile communication e.g. International Mobile Telecommunication 2000 IMT 2000 Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA or Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 and fourth generation mobile communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution advanced LTE A .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the wearable device includes a processor a notification providing unit e.g. a notification provider etc. and a communication unit e.g. a transceiver etc. .

The processor controls overall operations of the wearable device . According to the current exemplary embodiment when the processor receives a notification request from an electronic device or another wearable device the processor provides a notification by using the notification providing unit . The notification may be provided based on information regarding the type of the notification contents the notification and form of the notification included in the notification request.

When a notification event occurs in the wearable device the processor informs the electronic device of the notification event. The notice of the notification event may include the type and contents of the notification event. For example the type of the notification event includes a notification of an exercise application a notification of an operating system OS etc. The contents of the notification event may include an increase in a heartbeat a danger of a loss a low battery capacity a weak network signal etc.

The processor obtains information indicating whether the wearable device is worn and transmits the information to the electronic device .

According to one exemplary embodiment the information i.e. status information indicating whether the wearable device is worn includes sensing values of sensors included in the wearable device . For examples the sensing values may include information regarding whether a locking structure is fastened information regarding motion detection a bio signal etc. In an exemplary embodiment the wearable device may sense that it is currently being worn based on a distance of the wearable device from a body of the user or from the electronic device . In yet another exemplary embodiment the wearable device may sense that it is currently being worn based on whether it is in communication with the electronic device . According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor may transmit the sensing values to the electronic device .

According to another exemplary embodiment the information indicating whether the wearable device is worn is information indicating whether the wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state. According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor determines whether the wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state based on the sensing values and transmits a result of determining whether the wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state to the electronic device .

According to one exemplary embodiment the processor periodically transmits to the electronic device the information indicating whether the wearable device is worn. According to another exemplary embodiment the processor transmits the information indicating whether the wearable device is worn to the electronic device when the electronic device requests the information.

When it is determined that the wearable device will provide the notification the notification providing unit provides the notification. The notification may be provided for example in the form of sound vibration turning on of a screen flickering of an LED etc.

The communication unit communicates with the electronic device . The communication unit may transmit a control signal a signal indicating a state of the wearable device or data to the electronic device or may receive a control signal a signal indicating a state of the electronic device or data from the electronic device .

An electronic device that performs methods of providing a notification according to various exemplary embodiments may be for example the electronic device illustrated in that includes the processor the notification providing unit and the communication unit . However embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the electronic device of and methods of providing a notification may be performed by electronic devices having various structures according to exemplary embodiments. Exemplary embodiments performed by the electronic device of will be mainly described.

The processor obtains information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn by a user operation S .

According to one exemplary embodiment the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn includes sensing values of sensors included in the at least one wearable device . According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor may determine whether the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state based on the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn.

According to another exemplary embodiment the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn is information regarding whether the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state. According to the current exemplary embodiment the at least one wearable device determines whether the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state.

According to one exemplary embodiment the processor may obtain the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn by requesting the at least one wearable device to provide this information.

According to another exemplary embodiment the at least one wearable device may periodically transmit the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn to the electronic device and the electronic device may store this information in a storage unit thereof not shown . The processor may obtain the information stored in the storage unit to determine a device to which the notification regarding the notification event is to be provided.

Next when it is determined that the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state operation S the processor requests the at least one wearable device to provide the notification operation S . When it is determined that any one of the at least one wearable device is not in the wearing state operation S the notification providing unit of the electronic device provides the notification operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment a notification may be provided to a wearable device that is in the wearing state thereby increasing a probability that a user will check the notification.

When it is determined that there are wearable devices that are in the wearing state operation S YES the processor determines whether the number of the wearable devices in the wearing state is more than one operation S . When it is determined that there are no wearable devices that are in the wearing state operation S NO the electronic device provides the notification operation S . When it is determined that there is one wearable device in the wearing state operation S NO the wearable device that is being worn is requested to provide a notification operation S .

When it is determined that there are a plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state operation S YES it is determined whether a wearable device that is in use is present among the plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state operation S . The processor may request the plurality of wearable devices that are being worn to provide information indicating whether they are in use to determine whether the plurality of wearable devices are in use.

In one exemplary embodiment the wearable device or the electronic device may be determined to be in use if the wearable device or the electronic device have received input from the user within a predetermined time are reproducing content the wearable device or the electronic device are executing an application the wearable device or the electronic device are being operated in some manner by a user or a sensor of either the wearable device or the electronic device is detecting the use of the wearable device or the electronic device by the user. The states of the wearable device and the electronic device may be stored in the electronic device wearable device or both. In addition the state of both devices may be updated periodically or upon request of an application or a user by receiving information about use from the wearable device or the electronic device .

When a wearable device in use is present among the plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state the wearable device that is in the wearing state and in use is requested to provide the notification operation S . When no wearable device in use is present among the plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state one of the plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state is requested to provide the notification based on set priorities operation S .

According to one exemplary embodiment the set priorities may be criteria determined in consideration of a user s state a remaining charge capacity of a battery etc. When a plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state are present additional criterion may be used to determine a wearable device to which the notification is to be provided.

According to the current exemplary embodiment the preset priorities are allocated to wearable devices that will provide a notification based on the type of the notification. For example in the case of a sound notification priorities may be sequentially allocated to smart glasses a smart watch and a smart band. In the case of a vibration notification priorities may be allocated to the smart watch the smart band and the smart glasses. In the case of a screen notification priorities may be sequentially allocated to the smart glasses and the smart watch.

In addition priorities may be allocated to wearable devices regardless of the type of the notification.

As in the exemplary embodiment described above with reference to when a plurality of wearable devices are in the wearing state only one of the plurality of wearable devices is provided with a notification in consideration of the usage states of the wearable devices and set priorities thereby preventing a notification from being excessively provided to a user. For example according to the current embodiment when two wearable devices e.g. smart glasses and a smart watch are in the wearable device as illustrated in a notification is provided to only the smart glasses considering whether the smart glasses and the smart watch are in use the set priorities etc. If the notification is provided to both the smart glasses and the smart watch in the case of a user may be startled or provided with the notification more than necessary. Accordingly according to the current exemplary embodiment it is possible to appropriately provide a notification while minimizing interruptions that may be caused to the user.

In the method according to the current exemplary embodiment whether wearable devices that are in the wearing state are present and whether an electronic device or at least one wearable device that is in use is present are considered.

When a notification event is detected operation S the processor determines whether any one of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device is in use operation S . The processor may determine whether the at least one wearable device is in use by requesting the at least one wearable device to provide information indicating whether it is in use.

When it is determined in operation S that any one of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device is in use a notification is provided to a device that is in use operation S .

When it is determined in operation S that any one of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device is not in use the processor obtains the information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state operation S and determines whether any one of the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state operation S . If any one of the at least one wearing device is in the wearing state the wearable device in the wearing state is requested to provide the notification operation S . If any one of the at least one wearing device is not in the wearing state the electronic device or the at least one wearable device is requested to provide the notification according to set priorities operation S .

As illustrated in the processor may determine that a wearable device in use in a case in which music or video is being played back a case in which a reference time or less passes after a user input is detected a case in which a screen is being updated according to a user command or a case in which a screen is turned on. In one exemplary embodiment additional criteria may be further added or various criteria may be determined.

The processor of the electronic device requests each wearable device to provide information indicating whether the wearable device is in use receives this information and determines whether the wearable device is in use based on the information.

According to one exemplary embodiment the information indicating whether the wearable device is in use is information indicating whether the wearable device is in use or not. In this case it may be determined that the wearable device is in use when music or video is being played back in the wearable device when a reference time or less passes after a user input is detected when a screen is being updated according to a user command or when a screen is turned on. When a state of the wearable device does not correspond to any of these cases it may be determined that the wearable device is not in use and information indicating this fact may be transmitted to the electronic device

According to another exemplary embodiment the information indicating whether the wearable device is in use may include information indicating whether music or video is being played back a point of time when a latest user input is detected information indicating whether a screen is being updated information indicating whether the screen is turned on etc. In this case the processor of the electronic device may receive this information from the wearable device and determine whether the wearable device is in use based on this information.

In an exemplary embodiment in which a notification is provided considering whether the electronic device and the at least one wearable device that communicate with each other are in use the notification may be provided to a device that a user is likely to check. In particular when the notification is provided to a device in use the notification may be provided to the device to which the user is currently paying attention. Accordingly the user need not manipulate another device to check the notification thereby increasing user convenience.

In the method according to the current exemplary embodiment first whether there is a wearable device in the wearing state is determined and whether there is a device that is in use is determined when there is no wearable device in the wearing state unlike in the method of .

When a notification event is detected operation S the processor obtains information indicating whether at least one wearable device is worn by a user operation S and determines whether any one of the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state operation S . When a wearable device in the wearing state is present the wearable device is requested to provide a notification operation S .

When any wearable device is not in the wearing state the processor determines whether any device is in use among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device operation S . When it is determined in operation S that a device in use is present the notification is provided to the device in use operation S .

When it is determined in operation S that a device in use is not present the electronic device or the at least one wearable device is requested to provide the notification according to set priorities operation S .

When it is determined that there is a device in use operation S whether a plurality of devices are in use is determined operation S . When it is determined in operation S that only one device is in use the notification is provided to the device operation S . When it is determined in operation S that a plurality of devices are in use the notification is provided to the plurality of devices according to set priorities. The set priorities may be determined in various ways e.g. such that the notification is provided to a wearable device in the wearing state or such that a device to which the notification is to be provided is determined according to predetermined and stored priorities.

When it is determined that a device in use is not present operation S the notification is provided according to the set priorities operation S . The set priorities may be determined in various ways e.g. such that the notification is provided to a wearable device in the wearing state or such that a device to which the notification is to be provided is determined according to predetermined and stored priorities.

According to the current exemplary embodiment if whether a device in use is present is considered when a device to which a notification is to be provided is determined the processor further considers whether a notification is permitted to be provided while a function of the device in use is performed so as to determine a device to which the notification is to be provided. The current exemplary embodiment is applicable to all of exemplary embodiments in which whether a device in use is present is considered.

When it is determined in operation S that a device in use is present the processor determines whether the notification is permitted to be provided while a function of the device in use is performed operation S .

When it is determined in operation S that the notification is permitted to be provided while the function of the device in use is performed the processor provides the notification to the device in use operation S .

When it is determined in operation S that the notification is not permitted to be provided while the function of the device in use is performed the processor determines a device that will provide the notification among other devices except for the device in use based on set priorities operation S .

When it is determined in operation S that a device in use is not present the processor determines a device that will provide the notification based on the set priorities operation S .

In the current exemplary embodiment when a device in use is present it is determined whether a notification is permitted to be provided while a function is performed in the device in use as described above with reference to . illustrates a case in which a text message is input to the electronic device while a game is being played in the electronic device . In this case even if user input is detected within a reference time and it is thus determined that the electronic device is in use a user is interrupted when the notification is provided while the user is playing the game. Thus the processor determines that the notification is not permitted while the function is performed. Thus the processor provides the notification to the at least one wearable device instead of the electronic device in use.

In the current exemplary embodiment when a device in use is present it is determined whether a notification is permitted to be provided while a function is performed in the device as described above with reference to . illustrates a case in which a text message is received while a user makes a phone call with the electronic device . For example as illustrated in if a phone call is made with the electronic device a screen of the electronic device is turned on and thus the electronic device is determined to be in use. However when a notification is provided during the phone call the user is interrupted by the notification and the processor thus determines that the notification is not permitted to be provided while this function is performed. Accordingly the processor provides the notification to the at least one wearable device instead of the electronic device .

According to one exemplary embodiment the processor may determine whether a notification is permitted to be provided while a function is performed based on a list of functions that do not permit a notification to be provided while the functions are performed. For example the list of functions may include a game function a navigation function a video reproduction function a presentation function etc. The list of functions may be stored in a storage unit not shown or the like.

According to the current exemplary embodiment the electronic device includes a processor a notification providing unit e.g. a notification provider a communication unit e.g. a communicator and a sensor unit e.g. a sensor .

The processor controls overall operations of the electronic device . According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor detects a notification event and determines a device to which a notification of the notification event is to be provided. The device to which the notification of the notification event is to be provided may be at least one device selected from among the electronic device and at least one wearable device that communicates with the electronic device

The processor may determine a device to which the notification of the notification event is to be provided based on information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn by a user. According to one exemplary embodiment the processor provides the notification of the notification event to the at least one wearable device when the at least one wearable device is in the wearing state and provides the notification by using the providing unit of the electronic device when the at least one wearable device is not in the wearing state. In one exemplary embodiment when the notification is provided to the at least one wearable device the electronic device may also provide the notification or the electronic device may not provide the notification.

When it is determined that the electronic device provides the notification the notification providing unit provides the notification. The notification may be provided for example in the form of sound vibration turning on of a screen flickering of an LED etc.

When it is determined that the at least one wearable device provides the notification or both the electronic device and the at least one wearable device provide the notification the processor transmits a notification request to the at least one wearable device via the communication unit to request to provide the notification. When receiving the notification request from the electronic device the at least one wearable device provides the notification to the at least one wearable device .

The sensor unit includes at least one sensor. The processor may determine a user s state or a state of the electronic device by using a sensing value of a sensor included in the sensor unit .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the wearable device includes a processor a notification providing unit e.g. a notification provider a communication unit e.g. a transceiver and a sensor unit e.g. a sensor .

The processor controls overall operations of the wearable device . In the current exemplary embodiment when the processor receives a notification request from an electronic device or another wearable device the processor provides a notification by using the notification providing unit . The notification may be provided based on information regarding the type of the notification contents of the notification and form of the notification included in the notification request.

When a notification event occurs in the wearable device the processor informs the electronic device of the notification event. The notification of the notification event may include information regarding the type of the notification and contents of notification event.

The processor obtains at least one among information regarding whether the wearable device is worn by a user and information regarding a state of the wearable device and transmits the obtained information to the electronic device .

According to one exemplary embodiment the information regarding whether the wearable device is worn by a user includes sensing values of sensors included in the sensor unit .

According to another exemplary embodiment the information regarding whether the wearable device is worn by a user indicates whether the wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state. According to the current embodiment the processor determines whether the wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state based on the sensing values obtained by the sensor unit and transmits a result of determining whether the wearable device is in the wearing state or the non wearing state to the electronic device .

According to one exemplary embodiment the information regarding the state of the wearable device includes the sensing values of the sensors included in the sensor unit .

According to another exemplary embodiment the information regarding the state of the wearable device is information indicating a result of determining the state of the wearable device based on the sensing values of the sensor unit by the processor . According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor may determine the state of the wearable device as being held with a user s hand being held by a car holder being put in a bag etc based on the sensing values of the sensor unit .

When it is determined that the wearable device will provide the notification the notification providing unit provides the notification. The notification may be provided for example in the form of sound vibration turning on of a screen flickering of an LED etc.

The communication unit communicates with the electronic device . The communication unit may transmit a control signal a signal indicating the state of the wearable device data etc. to the electronic device or receive a control signal a signal indicating the state of the electronic device data etc. from the electronic device .

The sensor unit includes at least one sensor. The processor may determine the state of a user or the state of the wearable device based on a sensing value of the at least one sensor included in the sensor unit .

According to one exemplary embodiment the sensor unit or may include at least one selected among an illumination sensor a biosensor an inclination sensor a position detection module a proximity touch sensor a touch screen a camera a temperature sensor an infrared sensor and an acceleration sensor . In addition the sensor unit or may further include other various sensors.

The sensor unit or may include various combinations of sensors according to the types of the electronic device and the wearable device . For example when the electronic device is embodied in the form of a smartphone the sensor unit may include the illumination sensor the inclination sensor the position detect ion module the proximity touch sensor the touch screen the camera and the acceleration sensor . When the wearable device is embodied in the form of a smart watch the sensor unit may include the biosensor e.g. a heart rate sensor a blood pressure sensor a sweat sensor etc. the inclination sensor the touch screen the temperature sensor and the acceleration sensor . When the wearable device is embodied in the form of smart glasses the sensor unit may include the illumination sensor the biosensor e.g. a pulse sensor an iris sensor etc. the inclination sensor the position detection module the proximity touch sensor the camera and the acceleration sensor .

Examples of the position detection module may include a global positioning system GPS module a Wi Fi Protected Setup WPS module a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE module etc.

According to one exemplary embodiment the wearable device may be embodied in the form of a smart watch. In the wearable device in the form of a smart watch the sensors included in the sensor unit may be disposed on a bottom of a watch plate an inner circumferential surface of a watch strap a locking unit etc. For example a heart rate sensor a temperature sensor a sweat sensor a blood pressure sensor a proximity sensor etc. may be disposed on the bottom of the watch plate . A proximity touch sensor etc. may be disposed on the inner circumferential surface of the watch strap . A conductive sensor a hall sensor a magnetic sensor etc. may be disposed on the locking unit to sense whether the locking unit is fastened. A touch screen may be disposed on the watch plate . In addition an acceleration sensor an illumination sensor etc. may also be disposed on various locations on the wearable device

The wearable device in the form of a smart watch may have a structure in which the watch strap is detachable from the watch plate . In this case a sensor e.g. a conductive sensor a proximity sensor a hall sensor a magnetic sensor etc. may be disposed on portions of the watch strap and the watch plate that are combined with each other to detect whether the watch strap and the watch plate are combined with each other.

In wearable device such as a smart watch the processor may sense a motion of a user by using an acceleration sensor. For example the processor may determine whether the user is taking exercise or is driving a car based on an acceleration pattern of sensed by the acceleration sensor.

The processor may determine whether the locking unit is fastened and whether the smart watch is in the wearing state or the non wearing state based on a value sensed by a biosensor such as a heart rate sensor.

According to the current exemplary embodiment the wearable device may be embodied in the form of smart glasses. In the wearable device in the form of smart glasses sensors may be disposed on a glass frame glass temples portions of the glass temples that contact the temples of a user nose pads glass lenses etc. For example a touch sensor may be disposed on the glass frame or the glass temples a pulse sensor may be disposed on the portions an acceleration sensor or a touch sensor may be disposed on the nose pads or an iris sensor may be disposed on the glass lenses . That is various sensors may be disposed on various locations on the wearable device . According to one embodiment a camera may be disposed on a predetermined location on the glass temples or the glass frame .

According to one exemplary embodiment the wearable device in the form of smart glasses captures an image of a front area by using the camera and analyzes the captured image to determine the state of a user. For example as illustrated in it may be determined that the user is reading a book when a book is photographed by the camera .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the wearable device may be embodied in the form of earphones. In the wearable device in the form of earphones a sensor may be disposed on an outer circumferential portion a sound board etc. For example a heart rate sensor may be disposed on the outer circumferential portion and a temperature sensor may be disposed on the sound board .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the wearable device may be embodied in the form of a smart shoe. In the wearable device a sensor may be disposed on a body a sole an insert etc. For example a heart rate sensor a temperature sensor a sweat sensor a piezoelectric sensor or the like may be disposed in the insert . An acceleration sensor a motion sensor a position detection module or the like may also be disposed in the body the sole the insert etc.

According to the current exemplary embodiment the wearable device may be embodied in the form of a smart ring. In the wearable device in the form of smart ring a sensor may be disposed on a display unit a body an inner circumferential surface an outer circumferential surface etc. For example a touch screen may be disposed on the display unit a temperature sensor or a heart rate sensor may be disposed on the inner circumferential surface or an acceleration sensor a position detection module a motion sensor an illumination sensor of the like may be disposed on the body . A touch sensor may be disposed on the outer circumferential surface .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the wearable device may be embodied in the form of a smart bracelet. In the wearable device in the form of a smart bracelet a sensor may be disposed on a body a locking unit an inner circumferential surface or the like. For example an acceleration sensor a motion sensor a position detection module or the like may be disposed on the body a conductive sensor a hall sensor a magnetic sensor or the like may be disposed on the locking unit to sense whether the locking unit is fastened or a temperature sensor a heart rate sensor or the like may be disposed on the inner circumferential surface .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor of the electronic device or considers whether a recognizable device is present to determine a device to which a notification is to be provided.

When it is determined that recognizable device is present operation S the processor requests the recognizable device to provide a notification operation S . When it is determined that a recognizable device is not present operation S the processor determines a device that will provide the notification based on set priorities operation S and requests this device to provide the notification operation S .

For example in operations S S S S S and S the exemplary embodiment of may be one of the set priorities when a device to which the notification is to be provided is determined based on the set priorities.

According to one exemplary embodiment the processor determines whether a recognizable device is present. That is the processor only determines whether a recognizable device is present and determines a current state as a non recognizable state when there is no recognizable device. A device that is held with a user s hand a device that is held by a car holder but a navigation function is not run therein a device in which music is played back a device via which a conversation is being conducted a device in which user s eye contact is detected etc. may be determined a recognizable device. According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor does not determine whether a device is in a non recognizable state.

When pressure having a reference level or more is detected by a pressure sensor included in a housing of a device and a motion is sensed the device may be determined as a device that is held with a user s hand. As another example a device may be determined as a device that is held with a user s hand when a fingerprint is recognized or a temperature is sensed.

Whether the electronic device or the at least one wearable device is combined with a car holder may be determined using a sensor included in an interface between the car holder and the electronic device or the at least one wearable device . For example whether the electronic device is combined with the car holder may be determined using a magnetic sensor a hall sensor a conductive sensor a piezoelectric sensor or the like that is included in a housing of the electronic device that contacts or that is combined with the car holder. As another example whether the electronic device or the at least one wearable device is combined with the car holder may be determined by detecting whether an electrode of the car holder contacts an electrode of the electronic device or an electrode of the at least one wearable device or by exchanging a signal between these electrodes.

That music is being played back may be perceived through a function that is being performed in a device.

That a conversion is being conducted may be perceived by receiving external voice using a microphone and perceiving a predetermined pattern of the external voice. For example that a conversation is being conducted may be perceived by sensing repetitive voice of a specific person.

User s eye contact may be detected by capturing an image using a camera disposed near a display unit of the electronic device or the at least one wearable device and detecting the eyes of a user from the image.

According to the current exemplary embodiment an electronic device or a wearable device may include a display unit and a camera capable of photographing a subject that the display unit faces. According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor of the electronic device or the processor of the at least one wearable device may detect a line of a user s sight of by photographing a subject that the display unit faces by using the camera . For example whether the line of the user s sight is toward the electronic device or the wearable device may be determined by detecting the eyes of the user from an image the camera .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the electronic device may perceive that the line of the user s sight is toward the electronic device itself rather than the at least one wearable device .

According to another exemplary embodiment the processor may determine whether a non recognizable device is present and determine a current state as a recognizable state when a non recognizable device is not detected. In this case the processor does not determine whether a device is recognizable. For example the processor may determine that a device is in a non recognizable state when a user is driving a car is on the move or is in a movie theater when the device is in a do not disturb mode or in an airplane mode when a phone call is conducted using the device when the device is put in a bag or pocket etc.

That the user is driving a car may be detected using the motion of a smart watch a smart ring or a smart bracelet. For example it may be determined the user is driving a car when a motion of steering a handle is detected by a smart watch a smart ring or a smart bracelet. When a navigation function is run the electronic device or the at least one wearable device the processor may also perceive that the user is driving a car. When an image viewed through front glass of an automobile an image of a dashboard an image of a side mirror etc. is detected by a camera of smart glasses it may also be determined that a user is driving a car.

When an irregular motion of the electronic device or the wearable device is detected together with a change in the location thereof it may be determined that a user is on the move.

When the intensity of illumination is a reference level or less and a position detection module detects that a user is in a movie theater it may be determined that the user in the movie theater. When an image of a movie theater is captured by a camera of smart glasses it may also be determined that a user in a movie theater.

The do not disturb mode the airplane mode etc. may be perceived by determining a mode set in a device.

That a user is making a phone call may be perceived by detecting a function that is being performed in a device.

When the intensity of illumination sensed by an illumination sensor is equal to a reference level or less and a proximity sensor senses that an object is adjacent to a device it may be determined that the device is put in a bag or a pocket.

According to another exemplary embodiment the processor may detect cases in which a device is in a recognizable state or in a non recognizable state and may not consider whether the device can be recognized when the device is neither in the recognizable state nor the non recognizable state.

According to the current exemplary embodiment even if a notification event occurs operation S when the electronic device is in the do not disturb mode operation S providing of a notification is skipped operation S .

The do not disturb mode is a mode in which a notification is not provided to a user. According to an exemplary embodiment a notification of all of notification events including a phone call may be skipped in the do not disturb mode. According to another exemplary embodiment in the do not disturb mode a notification of a phone call may be provided but a notification of notification events except for the phone call may be skipped.

According to one exemplary embodiment when the providing of the notification is skipped operation S the contents of the notification event may be stored in the electronic device and the notification may be provided to a user when the user turns on a screen of the electronic device .

When the electronic device is not in the do not disturb mode operation S the processor may determine a device that will provide the notification based various criteria according to various exemplary embodiments operation S and request the determined device to provide the notification operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification event occurs operation S whether a device that is in the do not disturb mode is present among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device is determined operation S . The processor of the electronic device may request the at least one wearable device to provide information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is in the do not disturb mode and receive this information so as to determine whether the at least one wearable device is in the do not disturb mode.

When a device that is in the do not disturb mode is present among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device operation S a device that will provide a notification except for the device that is in the do not disturb mode is determined according to various exemplary embodiments operation S . For example when the electronic device is in the do not disturb mode a device that will provide the notification except for the electronic device is determined. As another example a device that will provide the notification except for the at least one wearable device that is in the do not disturb mode is determined.

When a device that is in the do not disturb mode is not present operation S a device that will provide the notification is selected from among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device operation S .

When a device that will provide the notification is determined this device is requested to provide the notification operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification event occurs operation S whether a device having an insufficient battery capacity is present among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device is determined operation S . Here the insufficient battery capacity means that a remaining charge capacity of a battery is less than a reference level. The reference level may be set to be the same or different for devices. The processor of the electronic device may request the at least one wearable device to provide information regarding a remaining charge capacity of a battery thereof and receive this information so as to determine whether the at least one wearable device has an insufficient battery capacity.

When a device having an insufficient battery capacity is present operation S a device that will provide the notification except for the device having an insufficient battery capacity is determined according to various exemplary embodiments operation S . For example when the electronic device has an insufficient battery capacity a device that will provide the notification except for the electronic device is determined. As another example a device that will provide the notification except for the at least one wearable device having an insufficient battery capacity is determined.

When a device having an insufficient battery capacity is not present operation S a device that will provide the notification is selected from among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device operation S .

When a device that will provide the notification is determined this device is requested to provide the notification operation S 

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification event occurs operation S the processor determines whether the at least one wearable device capable of communicating with the electronic device is present operation S . The processor of the electronic device may detect a communication state between the electronic device and the at least one wearable device to determine whether the at least one wearable device capable of communicating with the electronic device is present.

When the at least one wearable device is capable of communicating with the electronic device operation S a device that will provide the notification is selected among the at least one wearable device capable of communicating with the electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments operation S and is requested to provide the notification operation S .

When the at least one wearable device capable of communicating with the electronic device is not present operation S the electronic device provides the notification operation S .

While an electronic device operates such that it may communicate with first to third wearable devices and the electronic device may not be capable of communicating with at least one of the first to third wearable devices and for example in a case in which the second wearable device is powered off in a case in which the third wearable device is distant from the electronic device or in a case in which the third wearable device or the electronic device cancels a communication between the third wearable device and the electronic device . According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification event occurs first a communication state between the electronic device and the first to third wearable devices and may be checked thereby preventing a notification request from being not transmitted or determining of a device which will provide the notification from being delayed caused when the communication state is not considered.

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification event occurs operation S the type of the notification event is determined operation S and it is determined whether a predetermined device that will provide a notification of the notification event is present operation S . For example it may be determined beforehand that a notification of a phone call should be provided by the electronic device and a smart watch.

When the predetermined device that will provide the notification of the notification event is present operation S the predetermined device is requested to provide the notification operation S .

When the predetermined device that will provide a notification of the notification event is not present operation S a device that will provide the notification is determined based on set priorities according to various exemplary embodiments operation S and is requested to provide the notification operation S .

In one exemplary embodiment an order of notification of the plurality of wearable devices and the electronic device may be set. The plurality of wearable devices and the electronic device may then be sent notifications based on the order of notification. The order of notification may be determined based on status information of the electronic device or the plurality of wearable devices. The order of notification may also be determined based on and based on the type of notification.

According to the current exemplary embodiment a device that will provide a notification is predetermined according to the type of a notification event and stored in a storage unit not shown . For example a notification of a phone call may be provided to the electronic device and a smart watch. When communication between a device and the electronic device is disconnected a notification indicating the type of the device may be provided to the electronic device . When a device has an insufficient battery capacity a notification indicating this fact may be provided to the electronic device and the device having the insufficient battery capacity.

When a notification event occurs the exemplary embodiments of may be performed before determining the above described criteria i.e. whether a wearable device is in the wearing state whether a device that is in use is present whether a recognizable device is present etc.

According to one exemplary embodiment when a notification event occurs the processor may determine whether there is a device that is predetermined to provide a notification according to the type of the notification event according to the exemplary embodiment of determine whether a wearable device that is able to communicate with the electronic device according to the exemplary embodiment of determine whether there is a device that is in the do not disturb mode according to the exemplary embodiment of and determine whether there is a device having an insufficient battery capacity according to the exemplary embodiment of . The above determinations are performed according to the priorities described above but all of the criteria need not be applied and various combinations thereof may be used according to an exemplary embodiment. According to the current exemplary embodiment first it is determined whether a device that is predetermined to provide a notification according to the type of a notification event is present thereby minimizing process load on the determination of a device that will provide the notification.

According to another exemplary embodiment when a notification event occurs the processor may determine whether a wearable device that is able to communicate with the electronic device is present according to the exemplary embodiment of determine whether there is a device predetermined to provide a notification based on the type of the notification event according to the exemplary embodiment of determine whether there is a device that is in the do not disturb mode according to the exemplary embodiment of and determine whether there is a device having an insufficient battery capacity according to the exemplary embodiment of . The above determinations are performed according to the priorities described above but all of the criteria need not be applied and various combinations thereof may be used according to an exemplary embodiment. According to the current exemplary embodiment a time delay caused by a communication failure may be minimized.

According to the current exemplary embodiment a notification event is detected operation S the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device are detected operation S and a device that will provide a notification and a form of the notification are determined operation S . According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor determines a device that will provide the notification and a form of the notification based on the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device .

Since the form of the notification is also considered based on the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device a probability that a user will immediately check the notification may be increase and interruptions that may be caused to the user may be minimized.

When the device that will provide the notification and the form of the notification are determined the device that will provide the notification is requested to provide the notification operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a form of a notification is set for the electronic device or the at least one wearable device the notification is provided in the set form. According to one exemplary embodiment the form of the notification may vary according to the type of an event.

When a form of the notification is set for a device determined to provide the notification operation S the processor requests the device to provide the notification in the set form operation S . When a form of the notification is not set for a device determined to provide the notification operation S the processor determines a form of the notification based on a predetermined criterion operation S and requests the device determined to provide the notification to provide the notification in the form operation S .

For example the predetermined criterion for determining the form of the notification includes determining the form of the notification according to the type of the notification event providing the notification in a form that is set as a default etc.

According to the current exemplary embodiment a form of a notification may be set for all of the wearable devices and connected to the electronic device to establish communication with the electronic device operation S . For example the electronic device may set a sound notification as the form of the notification of the smart glasses and turn off the notification of the smart watch according to user input as illustrated in .

When the electronic device sets a form of the notification of at least one wearable device among the wearable devices and operation S the electronic device informs the at least one wearable device of the set form of the notification operation S . For example when the electronic device does not change the form of the notification of the smart glasses and changes the form of the notification of the smart watch a control signal for setting the form of the notification may be transmitted to the smart watch for which the form of the notification is changed. The at least one wearable device or that receives the control signal from the electronic device may set the form of the notification thereof according to the control signal operations S and S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment each of the at least one wearable device may set a form of a notification thereof. According to one exemplary embodiment when each of the at least one wearable device sets a form of a notification thereof operation S each of the at least one wearable device may inform the electronic device of the form of the notification thereof operation S . For example when a user sets a form of the notification of the smart watch as a vibration notification operation S the smart watch informs the electronic device of this fact operation S . When the electronic device receives the information that the form of the notification of the smart watch is set as the vibration notification from the smart watch the electronic device stores and manages the information operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a device that will provide a notification is determined the processor determines whether the device is in a situation that is not appropriate for providing a sound notification operation S . Here the situation that is not appropriate for providing a sound notification means a situation in which a user is not likely to recognize the sound notification due to surrounding noise or that is interrupted by the sound notification. The situation that is interrupted by the sound notification may include for example when a user is attending a lecture or is in a movie theater etc.

According to one exemplary embodiment information for determining whether the device is in a situation that is not appropriate for providing the sound notification may be obtained by a device capable of obtaining this information among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device . For example in order to obtain the information whether the user is attending a lecture or is in a movie theater smart glasses may capture an image by using a camera the processor of the electronic device or the smart glasses may recognize a current situation based on the image captured by the smart glasses and the processor may determine that both the electronic device and the at least one wearable device are in the situation that is not appropriate for providing the sound notification when the user is attending a lecture.

When the device is not in the situation that is not appropriate for providing the sound notification operation S the processor determines a form of the notification including the sound notification operation S . When the device is in the situation that is not appropriate for providing the sound notification operation S the processor determines a form of the notification excluding the sound notification operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the processor may determine a case in which a noise level is equal to or greater than a reference level a case in which a user is attending a lecture a case in which a user is in a movie theater etc. as situations in which a sound notification is not appropriate. The processor may receive noise via a microphone included in the electronic device or the wearable device and determine whether the level of the noise is equal to or greater than a reference level. Whether a user is attending a lecture or is in a move theater may be determined based on an image captured by a camera included in smart glasses.

According to one exemplary embodiment the processor may determine a device that will provide a notification and a form of the notification based on predetermined criteria. illustrates examples of predetermined criteria for a device that will provide a notification of a notification event except for a phone call and a form of the notification when the smart watch and the electronic device are used together.

When pressure having a reference level or more is detected by a pressure sensor included in a housing of the electronic device or the wearable device and the electronic device or the wearable device is neither on a table nor in a pocket or a bag it may be determined that the electronic device or the wearable device is held with a user s hand.

When acceleration perpendicular to a direction of gravity is detected and a motion is not detected the electronic device or the wearable device may be determined that it is on a table.

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a plurality of devices provide a notification operation S and the notification is checked in one of the plurality of devices operation S the device transmits information indicating that the notification is checked to the other devices operation S and cancels the notification in the other devices operation S . According to the current exemplary embodiment the notification may be prevented from being continued unnecessarily.

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a plurality of devices and provide a notification and the notification is checked in a device among them the device informs the other devices that the notification is checked and the electronic device requests the other devices to cancel the notification. For example when the notification is provided to the electronic device the first wearable device and the second wearable device and is checked in the second wearable device operation S the second wearable device informs the electronic device that the notification is checked operation S . When the electronic device receives the information indicating the notification is checked from the second wearable device operation S it is determined whether the notification is provided to another device except for the second wearable device and the electronic device . When the notification is provided to another device the device is requested to cancel the notification operation S . Referring to the electronic device requests the first wearable device to cancel the notification operation S . Then the notification is canceled in the first wearable device and the electronic device operations S and S .

In one exemplary embodiment once a notification is received acknowledged or seen by a user at one device from among the plurality of wearable devices and electronic device the notification may be removed from one or more of the remaining devices from among the plurality of wearable devices and electronic device.

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a plurality of devices and provide a notification and the notification is checked in a device among them the device informs the other devices or another device to which the notification is provided of the fact that the notification is checked. For example when the notification is provided to the electronic device the first wearable device and the second wearable device and is checked in the second wearable device operation S the second wearable device informs the electronic device and the first wearable device of the fact that the notification is checked operation S . Then the electronic device and the first wearable device receive this information from the second wearable device and cancel the notification operations S and S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment an electronic device determines either a device that will provide a notification or a form of the notification regardless of a device in which a notification event occurs. In this case information regarding the states of the wearable devices and is transmitted to the electronic device and the electronic device may determine a device that will provide a notification or a form of the notification based on the information regarding the states of the wearable devices and .

According to the current exemplary embodiment a notification event may occur in the electronic device or the wearable device operations S and S . When the notification event occurs in the wearable device operation S the at least one wearable device informs the electronic device of the notification event operation S . The electronic device obtains information regarding the state of the wearable device periodically or at a point of time when the occurrence of the notification event is informed operation S .

When the electronic device obtains the information regarding the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device the electronic device may determine a device that will provide a notification according to one of the previous exemplary embodiments operation S . If it is determined that the wearable device will provide the notification the electronic device requests the wearable device to provide the notification operation S . Then the electronic device and or the wearable device provide the notification operations S and S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a heart rate increases and a notification event thus occurs while the wearable device monitors the heart rate operation S the wearable device informs the electronic device of the notification event regarding an increase in the heart rate operation S . When the electronic device receives the information regarding the event from the wearable device the electronic device determines a device that will provide a notification and a form of the notification operation S . For example the electronic device determines the notification to be provided by itself by turning on a screen using a sound notification or displaying a message. Then the electronic device provides the notification in the determined form operation S .

According to one exemplary embodiment the electronic device may additionally inform the wearable device in which the notification event occurs that another device will provide the notification.

According to the current exemplary embodiment the at least one wearable device provides information regarding a state thereof to the electronic device regardless of whether a notification event occurs and the electronic device determines a device that will provide a notification when a notification event occurs based on the information regarding the state of the at least one wearable device that the electronic device receives and stores.

According to one exemplary embodiment the at least one wearable device may periodically detect information regarding the state thereof operations S and S and transmit the information to the electronic device operations S and S . For example the information regarding the state of the at least one wearable device may include information regarding whether a locking structure of the at least one wearable device is fastened information regarding motion detection a bio signal etc.

According to one exemplary embodiment the electronic device may periodically request the at least one wearable device to provide information regarding the state thereof and the at least one wearable device may transmit the information regarding the state thereof to the electronic device whenever the electronic device requests this information.

According to another exemplary embodiment the at least one wearable device may transmit the information regarding the state thereof to the electronic device in a predetermined cycle even when the electronic device does not request this information. In this case when communication is established between the electronic device and the at least one wearable device the electronic device transmits to the at least one wearable device information regarding a cycle in which the information regarding the state of the at least one wearable device is transmitted and the at least one wearable device may transmit the information regarding the state thereof in the cycle set by the electronic device .

According to another exemplary embodiment when the at least one wearable device detects a change in the information regarding the state thereof operations S and S the at least one wearable device may transmit information regarding the state thereof or a change value in the information regarding the state to the electronic device operations S and S . According to the current exemplary embodiment when communication is established between the electronic device and the at least one wearable device information regarding a current state of the at least one wearable device may be transmitted to the electronic device and be then transmitted to the electronic device whenever the state of the at least one wearable device changes.

According to one exemplary embodiment when a degree of a change in the information regarding the state of the at least one wearable device is equal to or greater than a reference value the at least one wearable device may transmit information regarding the state thereof to the electronic device . For example the at least one wearable device may transmit information regarding a heart rate to the electronic device only when a degree of a change in the information regarding the heart rate is 10 or more.

When the electronic device receives the information regarding the state of the at least one wearable device according to one of the previous exemplary embodiments the electronic device stores this information. When a notification event is detected operation S the electronic device obtains the stored information operation S and determines a device that will provide a notification or a form of the notification operation S . In exemplary embodiments information regarding a state of the electronic device may be detected periodically or when a notification event is detected.

When it is determined that the at least one wearable device will provide the notification operation S the electronic device requests the at least one wearable device to provide the notification operation S . When the at least one wearable device receives a notification request the at least one wearable device provides the notification operation S . When it is determined that the electronic device will provide the notification the electronic device provides the notification operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification event occurs a device that will provide a notification may be determined directly without collecting state information notification thereby minimizing a delay in transmitting the notification.

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification event is detected information regarding states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device is detected and shared.

When a notification event is detected operation S the electronic device requests the at least one wearable device to provide information regarding the state thereof operation S . When the at least one wearable device receives the request for the information regarding the state from the electronic device the at least one wearable device detects the state thereof operation S and transmit information regarding the state to the electronic device operation S . When the notification event is detected operation S the electronic device detects information regarding the state thereof operation S .

When the information regarding the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device is obtained the electronic device determines a device that will provide a notification and a form of the notification based on this information operation S .

When it is determined that the at least one wearable device will provide the notification the electronic device requests the at least one wearable device to provide the notification operation S . When the at least one wearable device receives a notification request the at least one wearable device provides the notification operation S . When it is determined that the electronic device will provide the notification the electronic device provides the notification operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device are detected only when a notification event is detected thereby minimizing load when the states are detected.

According to the current exemplary embodiment a device in which a notification event occurs determines a device that will provide a notification. Referring to a case in which a notification event occurs in the wearable device while the electronic device and the wearable device operate such that communication can be established therebetween will be described below.

When a notification event occurs in the wearable device operation S the wearable device determines a device that will provide the notification based on information regarding the states of the electronic device and the wearable device operation S . A point of time when the information regarding the states of the electronic device and the wearable device is obtained operation S may vary according to an exemplary embodiment.

When it is determined that the electronic device or another wearable device will provides a notification the wearable device requests the electronic device or the other wearable device to provide the notification operation S . When the electronic device receives a notification request the electronic device provides the notification operation S . When it is determined that the wearable device will provides the notification the wearable device provides the notification operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment it is possible to reduce load on the electronic device and load caused when communication is established between devices.

When a notification event that an increase in a heart rate should be informed occurs while the wearable device monitors the heart rate operation S the wearable device in which the notification event occurs determines a device that will provide a notification based on the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device operation S . When it is determined that the electronic device will provide a notification operation S the at least one wearable device transmits a notification request to the electronic device operation S .

When the electronic device receives the notification request the electronic device provides a notification regarding the increase in the heart rate based on the contents of the notification request operation S . For example when the notification request indicates turning on a screen outputting sound and displaying a message indicating the increase in the heart rate as a form of the notification sound is output and the message is displayed as illustrated in .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the electronic device and at least one wearable device e.g. the first and second wearable devices and share information regarding the states thereof regardless of whether a notification event occurs and a device in which a notification event occurs determines a device that will provide a notification. illustrates a case in which the notification event occurs in the first wearable device .

The electronic device the first wearable device and the second wearable device detect the states thereof operations S S and S and broadcast information regarding the states thereof to one another operations S S and S .

According to one exemplary embodiment the information regarding the states of the devices may be periodically detected and broadcast. According to one exemplary embodiment the information regarding the states of the devices may also be sequentially detected and broadcast in a predetermined order. For example the information regarding the states of the devices may be sequentially detected and transmitted in the order of the first wearable device the electronic device and the second wearable device .

According to another exemplary embodiment the detecting and broadcasting of the information regarding the states thereof may be performed after a change in this information is detected. For example the first wearable device may broadcast the information regarding the states of the devices which indicates a changed state of the first wearable device only when the state of the first wearable device changes. In another example the second wearable device may broadcast the information regarding the states of the devices which indicates a changed state of the second wearable device only when the state of the second wearable device changes. In yet another example the electronic device may broadcast the information regarding the states of the devices which indicates a changed state of the electronic device only when the state of the electronic device changes.

The information regarding the states of the devices may include for example information indicating whether the first wearable device or the second wearable device is worn by a user and information indicating whether the first wearable device the electronic device or the second wearable device is being used by the user.

For example when a change in an attached detached state of the first wearable device is detected information regarding the wearing not wearing state e.g. state information indicating whether the device is attached to a user of the first wearable device may be broadcast to the electronic device and the second wearable device . As another example when a degree of a change in a heart rate detected by the second wearable device is a reference level or more information regarding the heart rate detected by the second wearable device may be broadcast to the electronic device and the first wearable device .

According to an exemplary embodiment when the wearable device is a smart watch the smart watch may determine whether there is a change in a wearing state of the smart watch by sensing one or more of a connection state of a clasp of the smart watch by using a sensor for example a conductive sensor a hall sensor a magnetic sensor etc. included in the clasp of the smart watch by sensing a motion of the smart watch by using a motion sensor in the smart watch or by detecting a bio signal of a user by using a bio sensor in the smart watch. When the wearing state of the smart watch changes the smart watch may broadcast information indicating the change in the wearing state.

According to an exemplary embodiment when the wearable device is smart glasses the smart glasses may determine whether there is a change in a wearing state of the smart glasses based on a sensing value that is sensed by using one or more of a touch sensor disposed in a frame of the smart glasses a touch sensor disposed in temples of the glasses a pulse sensor disposed in a part of the temples of the glasses that contacts the temples of the user an accelerometer sensor and a touch sensor disposed in a nose pad and an iris sensor disposed in a glass lens. When the wearing state of the smart glasses changes the smart glasses may broadcast information indicating the change in the wearing state.

According to an exemplary embodiment when the wearable device is an earphone the earphone may determine whether there is a change in a wearing state of the earphone based on a sensing value that is sensed by using one or more of a heartbeat sensor disposed in an outer circumferential portion of the earphone and a temperature sensor disposed in a soundboard. When the wearing state of the earphone changes the earphone may broadcast information indicating the change in the wearing state.

According to an exemplary embodiment when the wearable device is smart shoes the smart shoes may determine whether there is a change in a wearing state of the smart shoes based on a sensing value that is sensed by using one or more of a heartbeat sensor a temperature sensor a perspiration sensor and a piezoelectric sensor that are disposed in a heel insert of the smart shoes and an accelerometer sensor a motion sensor and a position sensitive detector module that are disposed in a body a sole and the heel insert of the smart shoes. When the wearing state of the smart shoes changes the smart shoes may broadcast information indicating the change in the wearing state.

Although the above exemplary embodiment describes a case in which the wearable device broadcasts information indicating a change in the wearing state of the wearable device when there is the change in the wearing state the exemplary embodiments are not limited thereto. The wearable device may broadcast information indicating a usage state of the wearable device when there is a change in the usage state of the wearable device . For example the wearable device may broadcast information indicating whether the wearable device is in use and information regarding an operation executed in the wearable device .

When a notification event is detected in one of the electronic device and the first and second wearable devices and operation S the device in which the notification event occurs determines a device that will provide a notification operation S . If the notification event occurs in the first wearable device operation S the first wearable device determines a device that will provide the notification operation S .

If it is determined that a device except for the device in which the notification event occurs determines a device that will provide the notification the device in which the notification event occurs transmits a notification request to the device that will provide the notification operations S and S . When the electronic device or the second wearable device receives the notification request the electronic device or the second wearable device provides the notification operations S and S . If it is determined that the first wearable device will provide the notification the first wearable device provides the notification operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification event is detected the electronic device and the at least one wearable device detect and share information regarding the states thereof and a device in which the notification event occurs determines a device that will provide a notification. illustrates a case in which the notification event occurs in the first wearable device .

When the notification event is detected by one of the electronic device and the first and second wearable devices and operation S the device that detects the notification event requests the other devices to provide information regarding the states thereof operation S . If the notification events occurs in the first wearable device operation S the first wearable device requests the electronic device and the second wearable device to provide the information regarding the states thereof operations S and S .

A device that receives the request to provide the information regarding the state thereof detects the state thereof operations S and S and transmits information regarding the states thereof to the device in which the notification event occurs operations S and S . The device in which the notification event occurs detects the state thereof operation S .

When the first wearable device in which the notification event is detected obtains the information regarding the states of the electronic device and the second wearable device the first wearable device determines a device that will provide a notification based on the states of the electronic device the first wearable device and the second wearable device operation S .

When it is determined that at least one device except for the device in which the notification event occurs will provide the notification the device in which the notification event occurs transmits a notification request to the at least one device that will provide the notification operations S S and S . When the electronic device or the second wearable device receives the notification request the electronic device or the second wearable device provides the notification operations S and S . When it is determined that the first wearable device will provide the notification the first wearable device provides the notification operation S .

Referring to when a user removes the smart watch from his her wrist the smart watch may determine that the smart watch has been removed from the wrist of the user. The smart watch may determine whether a clasp of the smart watch is unclasped by using a sensor disposed in the clasp of the smart watch and may determine whether to sense a bio signal of the user via a bio sensor disposed in the smart watch . For example if the clasp is unclasped and the smart watch activates the bio sensor to sense the bio signal of the user when the bio signal of the user is not sensed the smart watch may determine that the smart watch is not attached to the wrist of the user. When it is determined that the smart watch is not attached to the wrist of the user the smart watch may broadcast information indicating that the smart watch is not attached to the wrist of the user.

When the user takes off the smart glasses the smart glasses may determine that the smart glasses are not on the face of the user. For example when the smart glasses sense that the user is holding the temples of the smart glasses the smart glasses may activate a heartbeat sensor disposed in the temples of the smart glasses to sense the heartbeat of the user. When the heartbeat of the user is not sensed the smart glasses may determine that the smart glasses are not on the face of the user. When it is determined that the smart glasses are not on the face of the user the smart glasses may broadcast information indicating that the smart glasses are not on the face of the user.

According to the current exemplary embodiment an electronic device may set a form of notification of all of wearable devices and connected to the electronic device such that communication may be established therebetween. After the form of the notification is set the electronic device may transmit information regarding the form of the notification to all of the wearable devices and .

According to the current exemplary embodiment the electronic device may set a form of notification of each of the wearable devices and connected to the electronic device such that communication may be established therebetween operation S . For example the electronic device may set a form of the notification of the smart glasses as a sound notification and turn off the notification of the smart watch according to user input as illustrated in .

When the electronic device sets the form of the notification of at least one among the wearable devices and operation S the electronic device transmits information regarding the form of the notification to all of the wearable devices and operation S . For example when the electronic device does not change the form of the notification of the smart glasses and changes the form of the notification of the smart watch the electronic device transmits information regarding the form of the notification of the smart watch to the smart watch and the smart watch . According to one exemplary embodiment the electronic device may transmit a control signal for setting the form of the notification to a device for which the form of the notification is changed.

Next a device that receives the information regarding the form of the notification stores this information operations S and S . When the information regarding the form of the notification is information regarding the form of the notification of the device the form of the notification of the device is set based on the information regarding the form of the notification. For example when the electronic device changes and sets the form of the notification of the smart watch information regarding the form of the notification of the smart watch is transmitted to the smart glasses and the smart watch . The smart watch may also change the form of the notification thereof based on the information regarding the form of the notification or according to the control signal for setting the form of the notification which is transmitted from the electronic device operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment each wearable device may set a form of a notification thereof and broadcast information regarding the set form of the notification to the electronic device and other wearable devices.

For example when the second wearable device sets a form of the notification thereof operation S the second wearable device broadcasts information regarding the set form of the notification to the electronic device and the other wearable device operation S . For example when a user sets a form of the notification of the smart watch as a vibration notification operation S the smart watch transmits information indicating that the form of the notification thereof is set as the vibration notification to the smart glasses and the electronic device operation S . When the smart glasses receive from the smart watch the information indicating that the form of the notification of the smart watch is set as the vibration notification the smart glasses store and manage this information operation S . The electronic device receives from the smart watch the information indicating that the form of the notification of the smart watch is set as the vibration notification the electronic device stores and manages this information operation S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment when a notification event occurs in the electronic device and the first and second wearable devices and the server may determine a device that will provide a notification based on the states of the electronic device and the first and second wearable devices and .

The server may communicate with the electronic device and the first and second wearable devices and via a predetermined network.

When a notification event is detected in a device among an electronic device and at least one wearable device operation S a device in which the notification event occurs informs a server of the notification event operation S . When the server is informed of the notification event the server requests the electronic device and the at least one wearable device to provide information regarding the states thereof operation S . When the electronic device and the at least one wearable device receive the request for the information regarding the states thereof they detect the states thereof operations S and S and transmit information regarding the states thereof to the server operations S and S .

When the server receives the information regarding the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device the server determines a device that will provide a notification and a form of the notification based on this information operation S .

When the device that will provide the notification and the form of the notification are determined operation S the server transmits a notification request to the device that will provide the notification operation S . A device that receives the notification request among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device provides the notification operations S and S .

According to the current exemplary embodiment an electronic device and at least one wearable device transmit information regarding the states thereof to a server regardless of whether a notification event occurs and the server determines a device that will provide a notification based on the information regarding the states of the devices which the server receives and stores when a notification event occurs. illustrates a case in which a notification event occurs in the electronic device .

The electronic device and the at least one wearable device detect the states thereof operations S and S and transit information regarding the states thereof to the server operation S and S .

According to one exemplary embodiment the information regarding the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device may be periodically detected and transmitted. According to one exemplary embodiment the information regarding the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device may be sequentially detected and transmitted in a predetermined order.

According to another exemplary embodiment the information regarding the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device may be detected and transmitted when a change in this information is detected. For example when a change in a wearing not wearing state of the at least one wearable device is detected information regarding the attached detached state of the at least one wearable device may be transmitted to the server .

When a notification event is detected in a device among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device operation S a device in which the notification event occurs informs the server of the notification event. When the notification event occurs in the electronic device operation S the electronic device informs the server of the notification event operation S .

When the server is informed of the notification event the server determines a device that will provide a notification and a form of the notification based on the information regarding the states of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device operation S .

When the device that will provide the notification and the form of the notification are determined operation S the server transmits a notification request to the device that will provide the notification operation S . A device that receives the notification request among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device provides the notification operations S and S .

According to exemplary embodiments an electronic device and at least one wearable device e.g. wearable devices and exchange signals e.g. a notification of a notification event a request for information regarding a device state information regarding a device state a notification request etc. with one another. The exchange of the signals may be performed between the communication unit of the electronic device see and the communication unit of each of the wearable devices and . Communication may be established between the electronic device and the wearable devices and according to communication standards employed to establish communication between devices.

According to one exemplary embodiment communication may be established between the electronic device and the wearable devices and via the electronic device . According to the current exemplary embodiment the wearable devices and may establish communication with another wearable device via the electronic device . For example when the electronic device and the wearable devices and communicate with one another based on a BLE communication mode the electronic device may act as a master and the wearable devices and may act as slaves.

According to one exemplary embodiment when the electronic device is in a non communicable state a device among the wearable devices and may act as a master in place of the electronic device .

According to the current exemplary embodiment an electronic device and at least one wearable device e.g. wearable devices and may directly communicate with each other. According to the current exemplary embodiment the electronic device and the wearable devices and may communicate with one another according to the same communication manner.

According to the current exemplary embodiment an electronic device and at least one wearable device e.g. wearable devices and may communicate with only some devices. For example the current exemplary embodiment may apply to a case in which devices employ different communication manners a case in which direct communication cannot be established due to a distance or the like a case in which devices have insufficient available resources for communicating with another device etc.

If the operating systems or protocols of an electronic device and at least one wearable device are different when a signal is transmitted between the electronic device and at least one wearable device the form of the signal may be transformed according to the operating system of a device that will receive the signal and then the transformed signal may be transmitted to the device. For example when the electronic device and the at least one wearable device have different operating systems the electronic device may generate a signal such as a request for state information a notification request etc. operation S and transform the form of the signal based on the operating system or protocol of the at least one wearable device operation S . The electronic device transmits the transformed signal to the at least one wearable device operation S . The at least one wearable device may receive the transformed signal from the electronic device and transform this signal operation S .

The signal may include a signal such as a notification of a notification event a request for state information a notification request etc. The signal may include data such as a document a photograph music video etc.

According to one exemplary embodiment the transforming of the signal operation S or S may be performed using an application installed in the electronic device and or an application installed in the wearable device .

In the electronic device a notification manager included in an operating system controls an operation of determining a device that will provide a notification and or a form of the notification and providing the notification according to one of the previous exemplary embodiments. The notification manager generates a control signal related to the notification and transmits a notification request to the application to the application via an application programming interface API . The application transforms the form of the control signal transmitted via the API according to the operating system or protocol of the at least one wearable device . The application transmits the transformed control signal to a communication unit of the wearable device via the communication unit .

The at least one wearable device receives the transformed control signal via the communication unit and transmits it to the application . The application transforms the transformed control signal and transmits a result of transforming the transformed control signal to an API when the transformed control signal needs to be transformed and directly transmit the transformed control signal to the API when the transformed control signal need not be transformed.

The API transmits the received control signal to a notification manager included in an operating system of the wearable device . The notification manager controls an operation related to the notification according to the received control signal.

Similarly a control signal related to the notification is transmitted from the wearable device to the electronic device via a notification manager the API the application and the communication unit . The electronic device receives the control signal related to the notification which is received via the communication unit from the notification manager via the application and the API and performs an operation related to the notification.

According to one exemplary embodiment the electronic device and the wearable device may share predetermined criteria e.g. the predetermined criteria of for the form of the notification or set values related to the notification when communication is first established between the electronic device and the wearable device or when the wearable device is first registered with the electronic device . For example the electronic device may transmit the predetermined criteria of to the wearable device when communication is first established between the electronic device and the wearable device . The notification manager of the electronic device and the notification manager of the at least one wearable device may manage and store the shared information related to the notification.

As illustrated in the structure of the electronic device or the at least one wearable device may apply to various devices e.g. a mobile phone a tablet PC a personal digital assistant PDA an MP3 player a kiosk an electronic picture frame a navigation device a digital TV or a wearable device such as a wrist watch or a head mounted display HMD .

Referring to the electronic device or the at least one wearable device may include at least one among a display unit a controller a memory a GPS chip a communication unit a video processor an audio processor a user input unit a microphone unit an imaging unit a speaker unit and a motion sensor .

The display unit may include a display panel and a controller not shown for controlling the display panel . The display panel may be embodied as any of various types of displays such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED display an active matrix OLED AM OLED a plasma display panel PDP . The display panel may be embodied as a flexible transparent or wearable display panel. The display unit may be combined with a touch panel of the user input unit to be provided as a touch screen not shown . For example the touch screen may include an integral type module in which the display panel and the touch panel are combined in an integrated structure.

The memory may include at least one among an internal memory not shown and an external memory not shown .

The internal memory may include for example at least one among a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RAM SRAM a synchronous DRAM SDRAM etc. a nonvolatile memory e.g. a one time programmable ROM OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a Flash ROM etc. a hard disc drive HDD and a solid state drive SSD . According to an exemplary embodiment the controller may load a command or data received from at least one among a nonvolatile memory and other elements to a volatile memory and process the command or data. The controller may store data which is received from or generated by another element in a nonvolatile memory.

The external memory may include for example at least one among a compact flash CF a secure digital SD a micro secure digital micro SD a mini SD an extreme digital xD and a memory stick.

The memory may store various programs and data for operating the electronic device and the wearable device . For example the memory may temporarily or semi permanently store at least a part of contents to be displayed on a lock screen.

The controller may control the display unit to display at least a part of the contents stored in the memory on the display unit . In other words the controller may display some of the contents stored in the memory on the display unit . Otherwise when a user makes a gesture on a region of the display unit the controller may perform a control operation corresponding to the user s gesture.

The controller may include at least one among a RAM a read only memory ROM a central processing unit CPU a graphic processing unit GPU and a bus . The RAM the ROM the CPU and the GPU may be connected via the bus .

The CPU accesses the memory and boots the system using an operating system OS stored in the memory . The CPU performs various operations using various programs contents data and the like stored in the memory .

Command sets for booting the system are stored in the ROM . For example when a turn on command is input to the electronic device and the wearable device to supply power to the electronic device and the wearable device the CPU copies the OS stored in the memory to the RAM according to a command stored in the ROM and runs the OS to boot the system. When the booting of the system is completed the CPU copies the various programs stored in the memory to the RAM and runs the various programs copied to the RAM to perform various operations. When booting of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device is completed the GPU displays a user interface UI screen on a region of the display unit . Specifically the GPU may create a screen including an electronic document including various objects such as contents icons menus etc. The GPU calculates attribute values such as the coordinates shape size and colors of each object according to the layout of a screen. The GPU may also create screens including various layouts including objects based on the calculated attribute values. The screens created by the GPU may be provided to the display unit and displayed in regions of the display unit respectively.

The GPS chip may receive a global positioning system GPS signal from a GPS satellite and calculate current positions of the electronic device and the wearable device . The controller may calculate the position of a user using the GPS chip when a navigation program is used or when the current position of a user is needed.

The communication unit may communicate with various external devices according to various communication manners. The communication unit may include at least one among a WiFi chip a Bluetooth chip a mobile communication chip and an NFC chip . The controller may communicate with various external devices via the communication unit .

The WiFi chip and the Bluetooth chip may establish communication according to a WiFi manner and a Bluetooth manner respectively. When the WiFi chip or the Bluetooth chip is used various connection information such as subsystem identification SSID and a session key may first be transmitted received communication may be established using the various connection information and then various other information may be transmitted received. The mobile communication chip means a chip that establishes communication according to various communication standards such as IEEE Zigbee 3G 3G partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE etc. The NFC chip is a chip that operates according to an NFC method using a frequency of 13.56 MHz among various RF ID frequencies e.g. 135 kHz 13.56 MHz 433 MHz 860 to 960 MHz and 2.45 GHz.

The video processor may process video data contained in contents received via the communication unit or contents stored in the memory . The video processor may perform various image processing such as decoding scaling noise filtering frame rate conversion resolution conversion etc. on video data.

The audio processor may process audio data contained in contents received via the communication unit or contents stored in the memory . The audio processor may perform various processing such as decoding amplification noise filtering etc. on the audio data.

When a reproduction program related to multimedia contents is run the controller the video processor and the audio processor may be driven to reproduce the multimedia contents. The speaker unit may output audio data produced by the audio processor .

The user input unit may receive various commands from a user. The user input unit may include at least one among a key a touch panel and a pen recognition panel .

The key may include various types of keys e.g. mechanical buttons wheels etc. formed in various regions e.g. a front side rear surfaces of the exterior of a main body of each of the electronic device and the wearable device

The touch panel may sense a user s touch input and output a touch event value corresponding to a sensed touch signal. When the touch panel is combined with the display panel to form a touch screen not shown the touch screen may be embodied as various touch sensors such as an electrostatic touch sensor a pressure sensitive touch sensor and a piezoelectric touch sensor. The electrostatic touch sensor calculates the coordinates of a touched point by sensing micro electricity that occurs on a user s body by using a dielectric coated on a surface of a touch screen when a surface of a touch screen is touched by a part of the user s body. The pressure sensitive touch sensor includes two electrode plates included in a touch screen and calculates the coordinates of a touched point by sensing electric current flows when a user touches the touch screen and the upper and lower plates contact on the touched point. In general a touch event may be generated on the touch screen mainly by a user s finger but may be also generated using a conductive material that may cause a change in an electrostatic capacitance.

The pen recognition panel may sense a proximity input or a touch input that is input with a user s touch pen e.g. a stylus pen or a digitizer pen and output a sensed pen proximity event or a pen touch event. The pen recognition panel may be embodied for example according to an EMR method and may sense a touch or proximity input according to a change in the intensity of an electromagnetic field caused when a pen approaches a touch screen or when the touch screen is touched by the pen. In detail the pen recognition panel may include an electromagnetic induction coil sensor not shown having a grid structure and an electronic signal processor not shown that sequentially supplies an alternate current AC signal having a predetermined frequency to loop coils of the electromagnetic induction coil sensor. When a pen including a resonant circuit is located near the loop coil of the pen recognition panel a magnetic field transmitted from the loop coil generates electric current in the resonant circuit in the pen based on mutual electromagnetic induction. An induction field is generated from a coil of the resonant circuit in the pen based on the electric current. The pen recognition panel may sense a point that a pen approaches or that is touched with the pen by detecting the induction field in the loop coils that is ready to receive a signal. The pen recognition panel may be prepared to occupy a predetermined region of the bottom of the display panel e.g. a region covering a display region of the display panel .

The microphone unit may receive a user s voice or other sound and transform it into audio data. The controller may use the user s voice input via the microphone unit to perform a call operation or transform the user s voice into audio data and store the audio data in the memory .

The imaging unit may capture a still image or video under control of a user. The imaging unit may be embodied as for example a front camera and a rear camera.

When the imaging unit and the microphone unit are prepared the controller may perform a control operation according to a user s voice input via the microphone unit or the user s motion recognized by the imaging unit . For example the electronic device and the wearable device may operate in a motion controlled mode or a voice controlled mode. When the imaging unit and the microphone unit operate in the motion controlled mode the controller may activate the imaging unit to photograph a user trace a change in the user s motion and perform a control operation corresponding to the change in the user s motion. When the imaging unit and the microphone unit operate in the voice controlled mode the controller may analyze a user s voice input via the microphone unit and operate in a voice recognition mode in which a control operation is performed according to the analyzed user s voice.

The motion sensor may sense motions of the main bodies of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device . The electronic device and the at least one wearable device may be rotated or tilted in various directions. In this case the motion sensor may sense the features of motions of the main bodies of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device such as a direction and angle of rotation an inclination etc. by using at least one among various sensors such as a geomagnetic sensor a gyrosensor and an acceleration sensor.

In addition although not shown in the exemplary embodiment of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device may further include a universal serial bus USB port to which a USB connector may be connected various external input ports to which various external terminals such as a headset a mouse a local area network LAN are connected a DMB chip that receives and processes a digital multimedia broadcasting DMB signal various sensors etc.

The terms of the elements of the electronic device and the at least one wearable device described above may however be changed. The electronic device and the at least one wearable device may each include at least one among the elements described above or may further include other elements.

The controller of may correspond to the processor of the electronic device or or the processor of the wearable device or . The communication unit of may correspond to the communication unit of the electronic device or or the communication unit of the wearable device or . The display unit and the speaker unit of may correspond to the notification providing unit of the electronic device or or the notification providing unit of the wearable device or . The touch panel the microphone the imaging unit and the motion sensor of may correspond to the sensor unit of the electronic device and the sensor unit of the wearable device

As described above according to the one or more of the above exemplary embodiments a notification that a user is not likely to check may be prevented from being provided.

Also according to the one or more of the above exemplary embodiments a probability that a user will immediately check a notification may be increased.

Also according to the one or more of the above exemplary embodiments a notification may be provided such that a user is not interrupted by the notification.

Also according to the one or more of the above exemplary embodiments a notification may be provided to a wearable device in an appropriate form when an electronic device and the wearable device operate while communicating with each other.

While not restricted thereto an exemplary embodiment can be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable recording medium. The computer readable recording medium is any data storage device that can store data that can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable recording medium include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The computer readable recording medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. Also an exemplary embodiment may be written as a computer program transmitted over a computer readable transmission medium such as a carrier wave and received and implemented in general use or special purpose digital computers that execute the programs. Moreover it is understood that in exemplary embodiments one or more units of the above described apparatuses and devices can include circuitry a processor a microprocessor etc. and may execute a computer program stored in a computer readable medium.

Further the above described devices may be formed of a hardware component a software component and or a combination of the hardware component and the software component. For example the devices and the components according to the one or more of the above exemplary embodiments may be embodied by using one or more general purpose computers or special purpose computers such as a processor a controller an arithmetic logic unit ALU a digital signal processor a microcomputer a field programmable array FPA a programmable logic unit PLU a microprocessor or any other devices which may execute and respond to instructions.

The above described devices may perform the operating system OS and one or more software applications performed in the OS. Also the devices may access store manipulate process and generate data in response to execution of software.

For convenience of understanding descriptions may have been made focusing on the case in which one device is used. However one of ordinary skill in the art would have understood that the device may include a plurality of processing elements and or a processing element in a multiple number. For example the device may include a plurality of processors or one processor and one controller. Also other processing configurations such as a parallel processor are also possible.

Software may include a computer program a code an instruction or a combination thereof and may configure the processing device to operate as desired or may individually or collectively instruct the device.

Software and or data may be permanently or temporarily embodied as a type of a device a component an physical equipment a virtual equipment a computer recording medium or device or transferred signal waves. The software may be stored or executed in a distributed manner in a computer system connected in a network. The software and or data may be recorded in one or more computer readable recording media.

The method of the present inventive concept may be implemented as computer instructions which may be executed by various computer means and recorded on a computer readable recording medium. The computer readable recording medium may include program commands data files data structures or a combination thereof. The program commands recorded on the computer readable recording medium may be specially designed and constructed for the inventive concept or may be known to and usable by one of ordinary skill in a field of computer software.

Examples of the computer readable medium include storage media such as magnetic media e.g. hard discs floppy discs or magnetic tapes optical media e.g. compact disc read only memories CD ROMs or digital versatile discs DVDs magneto optical media e.g. floptical discs and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and carry out program commands e.g. ROMs RAMs or flash memories .

Examples of the program commands include a high level language code that may be executed by a computer using an interpreter as well as a machine language code made by a complier.

The above hardware devices may be configured to operate as one or more software modules to perform the operations of the exemplary embodiments and vice versa.

Also herein a unit may be a hardware component such as a processor or a circuit and or a software component executed by a hardware component such as a processor. For example the processor may generally control a device by executing software programs stored in a memory of the device.

As the inventive concept allows for various changes and numerous embodiments particular embodiments were illustrated in the drawings and described in detail in the written description. However this is not intended to limit the present invention to particular modes of practice and it is to be appreciated that all changes equivalents and substitutes that do not depart from the spirit and technical scope of the present inventive concept are encompassed in the present invention.

It should be understood that the exemplary embodiments described therein should be considered in a descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Descriptions of features or aspects within each exemplary embodiment should typically be considered as available for other similar features or aspects in other exemplary embodiments.

While one or more exemplary embodiments have been described with reference to the figures it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form and details may be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope as defined by the following claims.

