---

title: Method and system for use of game for charity donations
abstract: A method and system for use of a game with charity donations. In one example, a donation agent interacting with a merchant website can offer an online user an option to allocate at least a portion of a payment for or price of a purchase, associated with a transaction made by the user via the merchant website, to be donated by a merchant (corresponding to the merchant website), on behalf of the user, to a charity of the user's choosing. The donation agent can disburse the calculated donation amount to the charity selected by the customer. The points earned can be combined with a college scholarship award mechanism. The game encourages people to participate in the charity in a fun way, e.g., as a hobby every day, with a large user base.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336540&OS=09336540&RS=09336540
owner: Sparo Corporation
number: 09336540
owner_city: Potomac
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150815
---
This application is a CIP of application Ser. No. 14 067 898 filed 2013 Oct. 30 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 111 300 which is related to a provisional application 61 840 286 filed 27 Jun. 2013. All the teachings of the provisional application and the parent application mentioned above are incorporated here by reference. The current application claims priority to the filing date of the provisional application and the parent application mentioned above.

Nowadays almost anything can be bought online. In ever increasing numbers merchants are offering goods and services via websites. On a typical merchant website a customer can navigate the website by entering commands via a computing device that provides a connection and an interface to the website. Using the computing device and the interface the customer can for example search an inventory select goods or services from the inventory and add the selected items to a virtual shopping cart. When the customer has finished his or her selections the customer can go through a check out process to finalize a purchase of the items in the virtual shopping cart.

The check out process can be interactive. For example as part of the check out process the website can present interface displays via the computing device that solicit information from the customer such as the customer s name address phone number credit card information and the like. The customer in response to prompts dialog boxes and the like presented via the interface displays can manipulate the computing device to provide requested information. Software responsible for the interface displays can process the information either independently in communication with other software. Processing the information can include for example generating queries to solicit further information performing error checking performing arithmetic and logical operations on information storing information retrieving information in response to queries and the like.

A company SocialVest Ventures LLC in Atlanta Ga. USA is also in charity business www.socialvest.us . Another site is www.IGive.com which is in the same field. However the inventions and embodiments described here below have not been addressed or presented in any prior art.

This disclosure relates to generally to embodiments of methods and systems for automated online merchant charity donations. More specifically according to the embodiments a donation agent interacting with a merchant website can offer an online user an option to allocate at least a portion of a payment for or price of a purchase associated with a transaction made by the user via the merchant website to be donated by a merchant corresponding to the merchant website on behalf of the user to a charity or charities of the user s choosing. If the online user exercises the option the donation agent can in response calculate an amount of the donation to be made and store the calculated donation amount in a database.

The donation agent can disburse the calculated donation amount to the charity or charities selected by the customer. Further pursuant to an agreement with the merchant corresponding to the merchant website the donation agent can bill the merchant for services. The services can include among others the offering to the user of the donation option via the merchant website and the calculating and storing of the donation amount. The services can further include the disbursing of the calculated donation amount to the charity or charities selected by the user. The amount billed to the merchant can be predetermined by agreement. The amount billed to the merchant can be for example a predetermined percentage of the payment for or price of the purchase.

The arrangement described in the foregoing can be advantageous among other reasons because it can encourage donation to charitable causes. For example merchants may be motivated to seek the favorable publicity of being associated with charitable causes by way of their websites. By providing the interactive donation capability on merchant websites thereby providing the sought after favorable publicity the donation agent can facilitate the linking of e commerce to the funding of charities. The donation agent can also encourage the participation of merchants by off loading from the merchants the tasks of calculating and disbursing the charitable donations in exchange for a modest fee.

The term donation agent as used herein encompasses at least software and machines and or articles of manufacture that store and execute the software to perform the operations described herein. A donation agent can also include at least a portion of a network such as the Web or the Internet.

Embodiments of the donation agent can provide a charitable service at online checkouts that allows shoppers to purchase what they like through sites they already trust while supporting their favorite causes. Customers can be twofold shoppers who currently purchase goods online and partner merchants who are enabled to make charitable donations. Shoppers who checkout through the donation agent are able to have a portion of their purchase donated to a charity of their choice. The merchant donates the portion of the purchase for the shopper.

There are at least two avenues in which the charitable giving can be done in this example. One avenue includes embedding of the donation agent into the website of the merchant as another option for checkout. A second avenue includes providing an independent website that acts as an agent and drives member customers to the merchants sites that are participating in charitable programs facilitated by the donation agent. The independent website also allows members to track their donation activities and donate directly to charities without having to make a purchase.

Note that we or our network or donation network or Sparo or our web site or our system refers to the donation agent website network. When referring to charities in this disclosure the reference include non profit organizations as well.

A user performing a transaction via a merchant website can see in a display of the merchant website associated with the transaction a virtual shopping cart containing an item or items to be purchased by the user. The user can subsequently perform operations facilitated by the merchant website to finalize the transaction. For example the operations can include the known checkout process.

During the operations to finalize the transaction operations by the donation agent can be invoked. The operations by the donation agent can include presenting via a display a list of selectable charities. The display can be by way of a display device associated with a computing device linked for example via a network to the merchant website. In response to an input indicating a choice of charity from the selectable list the donation agent can automatically capture information associated with the transaction. The information can be captured by a back end associated with the donation agent. Here back end encompasses at least software for processing the information machines for executing the software storage devices for storing the captured information and portions of a network for linking the machines and the storage devices.

In particular the donation agent can automatically calculate and store an amount of a charitable donation to be made to the selected charity based on the transaction. The amount of the charitable donation can be a variable amount a fixed amount an amount selected from a range of options and the like. For example the donation agent can calculate a predetermined percentage of a purchase price or payment associated with the transaction as the amount of the charitable donation or based on the income level of the user or based on the prior donations or history or preferences or question answer or personal folder data or gift certificate or proxy donation by friends or family or on a person s behalf or anonymous. Or it can be based on season or day of the calendar e.g. Earth s Day somebody s birthday triggered by an event Father s Day July 4 Independence Day or periodically applied or formulated or by an equation or from a table or list or from a curve or diagram or randomly generated donation value and or date.

After the foregoing operations the donation agent can bill e.g. transmit an invoice to the merchant associated with the merchant website for services performed by the donation agent. The amount billed to the merchant can be for example a predetermined fraction percentage or share of the purchase price or payment associated with the transaction or a fixed value or a value with a min. amount or a value with a max. amount or a step wise formula or graduated amount with steps or linear relationship or quadratic relationship or a polynomial relationship or closed form formula or open form formula or linear relationship with a cap and or min. or rounded number or truncated number or from a table or list or step function or logarithmic function or exponential function or n th power function of a variable or a value from a range of numbers or an integer value or a real value or random number or a predetermined number or based on a rule based on a rule engine based on if then rules based on conditions or the like.

Further the donation agent can disburse the amount of the charitable donation to the selected charity as part of services billed to the merchant. The billing and disbursement can be performed by the donation agent for example after payment pursuant to the transaction is made and verified.

The operations facilitated by the donation agent can further include presenting via an interactive display an option for a user to make an additional donation beyond the amount automatically calculated as described in the foregoing. The additional donation can be from the user s personal funds for example. The donation agent can further present an option for the user to become a member of a charitable program facilitated by the donation agent. In response to user input indicating that the user wants to exercise the option the donation agent can enable the user to navigate to an independent website generated and supported by the donation agent as described in more detail further on.

In non limiting embodiments the donation agent can include a charity application for each of known e commerce platforms e.g. Magento OsCommerce . . . etc. for example. Participating merchants can incorporate a charity application on respective websites to be invoked during e.g. the check out process similar to PayPal. Charity application as used here encompasses at least software that is customized or customizable to various e commerce platforms and or websites and executable by a computing device to perform operations described herein. The charity applications could be customized for each of several existing ecommerce platforms for example or could be designed from scratch where needed. The donation agent can include APIs Application Programming Interfaces for various charity applications that can facilitate customization.

2. Charity Management system List of Charities and assignments to B2B Clients. Similar to Categories and Products the donation agent can include a complete section for Charities and related programs. This section can allow adding Charities managing Charity pages and other specifications which can be completely customizable.

The donation agent can include a Charity API for clients to use for custom deployment of a donation agent charity application onto their website. This can require secure authentication with encryption placement of order and other activity in order to calculate donations. This can allow website backend and process the charities functionality and contributions.

Sufficient information to allow accounting for every transaction and provide more information on the transaction when needed.

The donation agent can solicit the following information for example from persons who wish to become members of the independent donation agent website 

E. FROM MERCHANT Downloading the donation agent application from the Website to embed in their website 

Embodiments of methods and systems for automated online merchant charity donations via the donation agent described in the preceding can include the following 

Software to implement the donation agent can execute in association with a merchant website. The software can generate interface displays on a display device for example. The interface displays can accept inputs from a user entered via a computing device connected to a network such as the Internet for example.

For example the user may access a merchant website via the Internet navigate the merchant website and execute one or more transactions to culminate in one or more purchases having a total purchase price. Pursuant to the purchase s functionality for collecting payment of the purchase price from the user may be invoked by the merchant website. For example the functionality can be the regular checkout process.

In non limiting embodiments the software to implement the donation agent can be invoked in connection with the checkout process. More specifically as part of the checkout process the software can issue an invitation to a user to have a merchant corresponding to the merchant website donate a portion of the purchase price or payment for the purchase to a selected charity or charities. The portion of the purchase price or payment to be donated by the merchant can be an agreed on e.g. between the merchant and the donation agent percentage of the purchase price or payment for example. The invitation can be in form of a pop up box or other graphical display for example containing text images and fields for accepting input. Based on an input or inputs supplied in response to the invitation the software can perform a number of operations.

For example the software can offer a selection from any or all of a local charity or charities a state charity or charities a national charity or charities an international charity or charities or other charity or charities. To provide a list of selectable local charities for example the software can solicit entry of a zip code. Based on an entered zip code the software can for example search a database or databases to identify corresponding charities and return a corresponding list for display via the interface.

For example if a response to the invitation indicates acceptance of the invitation the software can collect information associated with the one or more transactions executed on the merchant website. The information can include for example the information as shown above. The software can perform calculations based on the information and store both the information and calculated results in a machine readable storage device such as a volatile memory coupled to a processor and or a bulk non volatile memory such as disk storage on a server.

In particular for example the software can calculate and store the merchant donation value as shown above. Further the software can facilitate disbursement of the merchant donation value to the selected charity or charities and bill the merchant based on an agreement with the merchant.

In non limiting embodiments the software can offer the user an option to donate to a selected charity or charities from the user s personal funds as shown above.

In non limiting embodiments software for the donation agent can be implemented in the form of a downloadable plug in to a merchant website. The plug in can be fully customizable to each individual merchant website s requirements. The plug in could be automatically invoked during a check out process for a merchant website as described in the foregoing. The donation agent however is not limited in this respect and could be invoked at the merchant website on demand for example or automatically invoked by or during operations other than check out.

The donation agent can further supply functionality to cause the merchant website to be exited in response to user input and a different independent website associated with the donation agent hereafter independent website to be entered. The independent website can also be otherwise accessed that is without necessarily first entering a merchant website. For example a user can log directly into the independent website.

In any event the donation agent can execute security related operations either in connection with logging into the independent website or in response to being invoked via a merchant website. In particular if invoked via a merchant website the donation agent can create a secure session within another secure session. More specifically a checkout session of a merchant website is typically secure. Therefore because the donation agent can be invoked and executed within the checkout session performing security related operations associated with its own donation related session while executing within the checkout session the donation agent can create a secure session within another secure session.

The software for implementing the donation agent can generate and support the independent website. The independent website can generate and support a plurality of interface displays. One non limiting example of such an interface display is a login webpage. The login webpage can include input fields for accepting user input such as login and password information of registered members of the independent website and information as shown above for registering new members. The login page can also include a logo of the donation agent. Some of these are shown in the Figures.

Any person or entity can be a member of the independent website and or a participant in a charitable program s associated with the donation agent. For example merchants and charities can be registered members of the independent website and or participants in the charitable program s . Individuals such as customers of member merchants can be registered members of the independent website and or participants in the charitable program s .

The independent website can generate and support another interface display. The webpage can include fields responsive to user input such as a navigation field listing items selectable by e.g. clicking with a user input device such as a mouse or touchpad a search field to accept search terms for e.g. searching for charities to which to donate a field providing for selectable options to query e.g. an amount of total donations to date and total donations for the current week as a running sum or averages or typical data or goals or percentage of goals amounts achieved so far a field showing a running total of donations compared to a threshold or target donation total a field showing selectable banners or logos of member merchants e.g. merchants participating in the charitable program s and subscribing to services of the donation agent where e.g. clicking on a banner causes navigating to the corresponding merchant s website a field showing selectable banners or logos of member charities e.g. charities participating in the charitable program s and subscribing to services of the donation agent where e.g. clicking on a banner causes navigating to the corresponding charity s website and a field showing various selectable options for navigating to or invoking other features of the independent website.

The independent website can generate and support still another interface display. The webpage can correspond to a member s personal account and therefore display a personal identifier such as a user s image and or name Christine . The webpage can further display information concerning the user s personal record of donations. The information can include for example an amount of total donations to date by the user a weekly total of donations and a current amount in the user s personal account for charity or charity bank. The user s personal charity bank account also e.g. piggy bank can be funded for example by a user s personal donations as described previously or by merchant donations directed by the user to the piggy bank. The charge money can be from a credit card debit card credit line cash checking account foreign currency regular periodic salary direct deposit wire cashier check fund backed by the bank government securities regular stock third party authorized account from somebody s will or trust or inheritance or other funding sources.

The webpage can also offer selectable navigation or donation options. For example in response to clicking on the SHOP MORE button the donation agent software can enable the user to navigate to one or more merchant websites. In response to clicking on the DONATE FROM PIGGY BANK button the donation agent software can enable the user to donate part or all of the user s charity bank account to a selected charity via services of the donation agent.

The donation agent can facilitate accumulation of funds in the user s personal piggy bank over time and then disbursement of an amount of the accumulated funds at a time of the user s choosing or it can get the fund at some time in future per calendar setting and user s choice e.g. 1day of the month automatic withdrawal from the checking account. In more detail in addition to the functionality of the donation agent described previously the donation agent can further enable a user to direct a merchant s donation calculated or specified pursuant to a transaction via a merchant website to the user s piggy bank. Additionally or alternatively the donation agent can enable the user to direct a personal donation to the user s piggy bank. To this end the donation agent can generate and support one or more interactive interfaces along lines discussed previously. Thus the donation agent can enable donations that are substantially immediate or donations that are discretionary. The substantially immediate donations can be substantially immediate in the sense that they are automatically calculated and allocated to a charity or charities for disbursement by the donation agent after a transaction on a merchant website. The discretionary donations can be discretionary in the sense that they can accumulate over time in the user s piggy bank and then be disbursed at a time and to a charity or charities of the user s choosing. The donation agent can facilitate safeguards to ensure that funds in the piggy bank are used for charitable purposes.

The security biometrics certification of approval PKI encryption and password can be used for authentication and validation. The charities can be approved by IRS government third party independent agents or rated by people. The charities overhead and types of fund usage or transparencies are also listed for users review e.g. as a portal for charities or comparison table or can be searchable for topics emphasis goals location budget overhead percentage and rating by the user from our web site as a service to the user for selecting the desired charities or groups of charities which can be stored as a set for each person as a database for future referral and usage. This makes the experience easier and more convenient for the users.

Alternatively in response to clicking on the DONATE DIRECTLY TO CHARITIES the donation agent software can enable the user to donate directly to a selected charity.

The webpage can further display at least a portion of a charity related activity history corresponding to the user or for her friends or her family members based on permission to access for the user.

The independent website can generate and support still another interface display s analogous to the webpages described in the foregoing for displaying a running tally of donations targeted to some specific purpose along with a threshold amount that when reached triggers an automatic award of the accumulated donations. For example the specific purpose could be tuition assistance and the threshold amount could be 5000.

In more detail the donation agent can support a live feed or real time display of donations targeted to the specific purpose. The live feed or real time display can be driven by finalized and verified transactions executed via various merchant websites for example. The real time display could be in the form of a status bar that shows the threshold amount and the verified amount accumulated toward the threshold amount based on the most recent data available. The appearance of the real time display however is in no way limited by the examples described herein.

The donation agent can perform operations to calculate the accumulated amount and compare the accumulated amount to the threshold amount. Based on the comparing the donation agent can determine whether the accumulated amount has reached or exceeded the threshold amount. If the donation agent determines that the accumulated amount has not reached or exceeded the threshold amount the donation agent can continue to monitor and display the verified amount accumulated toward the threshold amount based on the most recent data available.

On the other hand if the donation agent determines that the accumulated amount has reached or exceeded the threshold amount the donation agent can announce an award of the threshold amount to a recipient. The donation agent can randomly select the recipient for example. The announcement of the award can take the form of a display via the live feed or real time display for example but the announcement can take various alternative or additional forms such as emails or other electronic notifications U.S. postal service notifications and the like.

As noted the donation agent can randomly select an award recipient using any of known randomization techniques for example. Recipients can be members of the donation agent website for example or any other persons or organizations who register as part of an award program supported by the donation agent. In the case where the specific purpose is tuition assistance for example candidates for receiving the award could be students who register with the award program via for example the independent website. Each registered student could be assigned a number by the donation agent a winning number could be randomly selected by the donation agent after the threshold is reached and the donation agent could award the threshold amount to the student assigned the winning number.

After the award is made the donation agent can reset the accumulated amount to zero and again begin to monitor and report on the accumulated amount as it grows. The donation agent can also reset or change the threshold amount if this is desired.

As noted previously application of an automated randomly assigned award with real time reporting supported by the donation agent is not limited to the example of tuition assistance. Any charitable cause could serve as the specific purpose toward which donations are accumulated.

As depicted for example in the donation agent can provide an interactive input field for navigation . For example the input field can be a display or portion of a display that is generated during a session within the independent website but wherein a user has navigated to a merchant website for example from within the independent website session. The input field can display information for reminding a user that the user is currently interacting with a session that was entered or invoked via the independent website and the donation agent can navigate back to the independent website in response to user input in the input field. In one embodiment the donation agent can track user activity with the merchant website session.

In one embodiment the cross domain scripting is addressed for example by creating script elements and setting the source to a script file from another domain e.g. via JSON web services and dynamic script tags. One embodiment dynamically creates tags on a page where the JavaScript source is executed. A tag references a remote JavaScript source and a dynamically created script tag that references a source on another domain that source outputs JSON. In one embodiment message posting is used to communicate information. In one embodiment an agent plug in or extension is used e.g. running in the browser e.g. to examine the document object model and interact with third party server. As depicted in in one embodiment a user interface is provided on top or floating above the store website e.g. in iFrame with links for jumping to various websites or information sites. The scripts e.g. using jQuery are used to control the animated behavior for hiding rolling minimizing the interface and interaction with user input e.g. mouse .

Table 1 below tabulates various possible features of the independent website and application software of the donation agent.

In various embodiments for example as depicted in the user browses and selects items services from a merchant s website for purchase and the merchant provides donations e.g. as a percentage of the total purchase to the charities selected by the customer.

An embodiment as for example depicted in a donation user interface is presented to the user at the checkout process where the user selects one or more charities e.g. prior to the completion of the checkout process. After the selection the checkout is completed and the user is presented with the confirmation s for such a donation transaction. In such an embodiment a reference ID is generated by the donation agent e.g. as a primary key to a database table to associate with the transaction. Once the transaction is complete the merchant s confirmation code or transaction ID is captured e.g. via API or script plug in running on client s side and associated with the reference ID generated by the donation agent. In one embodiment the amount of the transaction used for determining the donation amount is captured and recorded by donation agent. In one embodiment the confirmations are in form of both on screen and email or TXT.

An embodiment as for example depicted in a donation interface is displayed to the customer after the checkout confirmation for the customer to choose charities of choice for donation. In one embodiment the confirmation code e.g. at checkout and or purchase information is captured for determining the amount of the donation based on the merchant s settings queried from the database such as the current percentage rate. In one embodiment the browser session ID is captured and used to query the purchase information e.g. amount and merchant s confirmation code transaction ID to associate with a transaction ID generated by the donation agent. In one embodiment the customer may still invoke the donation interface if previously dismissed it after the checkout process . In one embodiment the user logs into donation agent e.g. by signing in as a returning member or signing up as a member e.g. to bring the customer s favorite charities into the interface. In one embodiment the customer uses a social network posting feature to share the information about the donation on one or more social networks. In one embodiment the shared message is automatically constructed based on a template with the merchant s information and rules. In one embodiment the customer enters own comments about the donation activity in the message. In one embodiment the customer can select the charities of choice without logging into or signing up with the donation agent and the donation is recorded and associated with a generic guest in the database. In one embodiment as for example depicted in the donation interface is displayed after the checkout process e.g. for merchants who work on a time sensitive basis such as ticket sales . In one embodiment after the customer selects the charities for donation the donation agent captures the transaction information and associates it with a reference ID. If subsequently the customer logs into donation agent the transaction is associated with the member by looking up the reference ID. In such an embodiment the transaction will show up when the member logs into the donation portal.

In one embodiment for example as depicted in customers are provided with a user interface prior to the checkout process e.g. a Sparo button to participate. In one embodiment this presents an option for merchants to have the donation agent appear more subtle as a more intention driven feature during the checkout process to filter in customers who purposefully want to purchase with a purpose of donating to charities. In one embodiment a promotional banner alerts new customer to what Sparo donation agent is. In one embodiment donation agent codes scripts are downloaded from the merchant s website referenced imported via merchant s webpage or invoked via an extension or plug in installed at the user s browser. In one embodiment the merchant s application interacts with the donation agent in the backend e.g. via an API. In one embodiment the banner indicates based on the items in the shopping cart e.g. total purchase amount the amount of donation anticipated by the merchant. In one embodiment the donation agent and merchant s application communicate via e commerce platform e.g. a shared platform type or predetermined APIs . In one embodiment the buttons or banners on the webpage are generated via scripts embedded or referenced on the webpage. In one embodiment upon customer s selecting the buttons interface corresponding to the donation agent the donation interface is displayed to the customer to select charities of choice. The customer may sign in sign up or participate a guest with donation agent in selecting such charities. In one embodiment the customer is provided with an interface to also personally donate to the charities of choice for example as depicted in . In one embodiment a minimum and or maximum threshold amount s e.g. based on merchant s settings donation agent s settings the member s settings if logged in or a default values are used to limit such personal donations from the customer. In one embodiment personal donation from the customer is captured at the checkout as a separate donation item to be processed by the same payment process system. In one embodiment the donation agent captures both the personal donation and the merchant s donation associated with the transaction. In one embodiment the customer if logged in a member of the donation network specifies donation to charities from the corresponding charity piggy bank based on the amount available in the charity bank and the rules limitations imposed by the merchants associated with the portions available in the charity bank associated with the member.

In one embodiment as for example depicted in the checkout process is done via donation agent e.g. for fast checkout for returning members customers . In one embodiment the customer is provided with a choice to checkout as a guest or as a returning member e.g. as depicted in . In one embodiment the customer proceeds as a guest e.g. as depicted in . In one embodiment the customer choosing to proceed as a returning member is provided with an interface to choose or enter payment information e.g. previously stored . In one embodiment the customer s own donation purchase amount are processed based on the payment information authorization and the authorization or confirmation ID is returned to the merchant s server e.g. via API to complete the checkout at the merchant s side. In one embodiment the donation amount and fees corresponding to the transaction is communicated to the merchant upon the completion of the checkout e.g. as information or as part of invoicing process .

In one embodiment a user selects default e.g. favorite or a subset of favorite set of charities for donations to be given. In one embodiment the donation interface during checkout is suppressed or not presented to the user based on merchant s setting and or user s settings e.g. if logged in or determined based on browser s history or cookie . In one embodiment the default charities are used as pre selected donees without presenting the donation interface. In one embodiment the distribution of the donation amount between the selected charities is based on their priority e.g. high medium or low as for example depicted in for associated matching causes . In one embodiment the distribution of donation amount is driven based on a stochastic process to choose a set of charities based on the corresponding priorities.

In other words revenue from total transactions in a given month will not be considered finalized and secured until 60 days or 2 months after the given month or period .

For example linear programming is used to determine the available solutions in linear constraint. For example for half piggy bank icon situation some but not all merchants contributed to the piggy bank accept contribution to the selected charity. So that is a constraint on distribution of the funds based on the disapproved or not approved charity by some merchants in this example.

In one embodiment non cash donation is processed via donation agent. In one embodiment as for example depicted in an entity e.g. ABC Utility provides a gift certificate or coupon from a merchant or advertiser e.g. XYZ Shop to its customers for an incentive e.g. to go paperless for billing statements . An interface is provided to the customers to donate such certificates coupons to charity of their choice. In one embodiment the certificate or coupon is presented by a code e.g. identifying the specific coupon and other identifying information for the issuer of the coupon . In one embodiment the information is packaged in an object file e.g. signed electronically using PKI . In one embodiment the user selects charities of choice and authorizes the donation of the coupon or certificate for use of charities. In one embodiment the authorization is associated with a Ref. ID by donation agent and or merchant s . In one embodiment a cash value for the coupon certificate is extracted e.g. via a marketplace or auction to purchase by a third party to use the certificate coupon at the issuer merchant. In one embodiment the payment subtracted by the fees are provided as donation to the selected charities and captured in the member s donation via XYZ Shop in the member s account at the donation agent.

In one embodiment as for example depicted in a merchant can donate to a customer s charity of choice a non cash item. For example a clothing shop may donate clothes to a charity e.g. Salvation Army . In one embodiment charities and or merchants can specify in their settings the type of non cash donations that they may offer accept. In one embodiment such settings can be matched by the donation agent to allow a merchant provide its donation in a non cash form. In one embodiment the merchant e.g. via the donation agent creates a coupon or certificate reflecting the amount of donation to be redeemed by the charity as non cash item purchase. In one embodiment the beneficiaries of the charity redeem the donation by purchase at the merchant. In one embodiment the donation agent accumulates such donations to a charity until a e.g. minimum threshold e.g. set by the merchant to provide the charity.

In one embodiment we can have donation to special events such as unexpected flood or school as special charity appearing as a special case in our network or system e.g. run by Sparo us as a donor as well as others contributing e.g. people as consumers or non members and merchants for goodwill. In one embodiment the users or merchants stores can aggregate their contributions e.g. via group email or invitation with acceptance box with suggestions for amount of contributions and the goal to reach in a social media or friends circle environment.

In one embodiment we can have donation before payment for purchase. In one embodiment we have donation after payment for purchase transaction. In one embodiment the user can contribute to charity from piggy bank or from e.g. her own credit card which either Sparo we or store add and process the total charges based on those corresponding accounts forms.

In one embodiment we have regional classification of charities e.g. local state national and international with a tab shown on screen for ease of use. In one embodiment we have subject classification of charities e.g. homeless medical related children related environmental related food related and the like. In one embodiment the system gets the donation to charity from the store and with no charge to the customer or invoices that to the store at a later date or does a batch process for many items at the end of the period. In one embodiment we have a portion of the proceeds going to the other usage e.g. student tuition or expense scholarship or grant. Then the rest is used for our expense or overhead as well as company s shareholders if any.

In one embodiment we have the list of charities prioritized by us users government based on lower overhead based on past history or preference of the user on categories types geography country or lower overhead percentages. In one embodiment we have plug ins in any web site or store or using cookies for tracking or behavioral analysis on an individual basis or aggregated for all users as average or trend analysis or statistical analysis. In one embodiment we have APIs to partner sites or entities or developers associated with our program. In one embodiment we have charities getting a percentage of our company as stock for encouraging more participation and good will.

In one embodiment we have 3 types of the accounts 1 merchant stores 2 consumer as a customer of merchant and a member of the Sparo and 3 charities or non profit organizations e.g. certified by the government IRS or a neutral third party. The certification for validation of charity can be in the form of PKI or certificate with public private keys to make sure the money or correspondences are coming or going to the right place or account. In one embodiment we have piggy bank for each consumer so that they can accumulate for later for a specific charity or above a threshold amount for grant of the money to happen. In one embodiment we have tax break for the business that gives to charity as well as goodwill for customer plus more sales through public as an edge in the marketing.

In one embodiment we have the customer consumer as a member of Sparo or charity network or portal or central or HQ with piggy bank account and other relations built up. In one embodiment we have the consumer as a non member for one time use or with no permanent record with no piggy bank account. In one embodiment we have the customer signed up with personal data or using FACEBOOK or GOOGLE accounts to transfer information. In one embodiment we have the GPS location data for user or her device for locating the user and for finding the location of the nearby charities or using telephone number address zip code history personal information using dialog box or email address or server for locating the user.

In one embodiment we have the total transaction numbers and dollar values for a user a charity a store or combination of store giving to charity or person to charity or store selling to a person or any combination of the above or average or statistics or history of the above recorded stored or presented to any or all parties per request or query or based on the display on computer for the account holder to visit and review or print for various purposes e.g. for tax deduction purposes as donations. In one embodiment we have the user sending the gifts or donation amounts as a pride or encouragement to friends or family e.g. by email text or post on using TWITTER or FACEBOOK by the user or automatically generated and sent by our web site.

In one embodiment we have various level of pride levels or scores being generated e.g. based on numbers points color codes or stars shown on the person s account or FACEBOOK or other social sites to signify the amount a person donated or gave through stores so far as a way to encourage more giving. For example we can have GOLD CLUB member or SILVER CLUB member or level donor to show the amount or frequency or average or maximum or the last time a person donated on computer monitor or listing or as heroes on the web site or as a graph or bar diagram or sliding bar to advertise and encourage and promote for good deed.

In one embodiment we have anonymous donor so that there is no record of anything if the user chooses so. In one embodiment we have unique ID for a customer.

In one embodiment we have multiple causes for distribution e.g. student fellowship single mothers flood victims and the like so that they can register and get verified by authorities or certified so that randomly or lottery or based on FIFO order of request or based on priority of severity of situation for each case one can get funded. The verification can be manual by fax telephone email or automatic through computers e.g. using forms on line by FEMA or other government agencies or by social workers or by offices qualified for such certifications and authentications generating such certificates automatically and transmitting to Sparo for our processing the requests to fund the people or groups or causes.

In one embodiment we have updates for criteria for each cause e.g. student scholarship threshold or approved schools or majors or family status or situation or income or need which can be changed for future evaluations and decisions after e.g. the new threshold takes effect and propagates in the system. In one embodiment we have updates for enrollments for people coming in and out of the database e.g. people graduating from college or entering college to turn the eligibility flag on off based on the state and status for a person student as a student to be eligible to receive the fund for scholarship. This will affect the approval process for the student. So we can have an active window for periodic check for these types of parameters to actively or based on student mandate requiring the student to certify the continuity of her status as eligible to receive funds as a full time student or part time student.

In one embodiment we have login allowed from another server using a phantom session. In one embodiment the system allows the Sparo logo display. In one embodiment the system does not allow the Sparo logo display. In one embodiment the system allows the merchant or store logo display. In one embodiment the system allows layered tab like display for various charities in different locations areas cities or for displaying different topics focuses e.g. environmental causes mother causes children causes family causes school causes and the like. In one embodiment the system allows overlap between different topics e.g. some charities belonging to 2 or more topics e.g. topics such as mother causes children causes family causes and school causes.

In one embodiment we have a message at the end for notification for user for her social network account for her friends for her phone texting for her regular mail printout or for her tax accountant IRS automatically generated sent. In one embodiment we have the user or store or both are capable of adding more cash or merchandise to the total for charity. In one embodiment we our system have merchandise or equivalent cash being donated by the store or merchant. In case of objects or merchandise donation the charity or the third party can convert the object to cash in a middle step or a 4party can get that object in an auction or sales forum and pay the charity in cash instead as a single or combination transaction.

In one embodiment we accept donations in the name of or honor of others living or deceased or friends or family or groups with notification sent to designated parties. In one embodiment we have the total so far for all charities or per charity per store per person per group per class per category per type per merchandise per school tuition per student or the like for statistics average sum max min range standard deviation distribution trend curve time variation mean and the like as number or graphic or plot or visual presentation. In one embodiment we have a goal dollar amount for a period or deadline also shown on screen as number bar sliding marker graph pie chart percentage axis glass shape with liquid in it or the like to signify how much we are getting closer to the goal.

In one embodiment we have 3 choices in menu shop donate to charity and put dollar in piggy bank. In different embodiments we have different order for 1 giving money to charity 2 signing up or sign in as optional and 3 purchasing the object as different steps in various orders e.g. as steps 1 2 3 1 3 2 2 1 3 2 3 1 3 1 2 and 3 2 1 combinations sequences. In one embodiment we have ratings for consumers and ratings for stores and ratings for charities based on performances indexes numbers votes by users frequency of transactions number of transactions average overhead total mean values and the like. In one embodiment we have different badges colors stars heart symbols or the like to signify the achievements so far.

In one embodiment we can share the story of user or randomly highlight the best donors for good will or advertisement on social sites or on our web site. In one embodiment we can start a group based on the charitable causes or people e.g. Friends of Charity Q . In one embodiment we can start a portal for small charities that do not have separate web sites or otherwise like to have another venue to process their gifts and donations. In one embodiment we can have statistics and behavior or social or economical or mood or direction of people and society and politics evaluated or examined versus time and context and location.

In one embodiment we can have the tuition accumulated and paid after some threshold or based on time period or events or randomly or based on rules or based on need or based on semester calendar or combination of the above. The payment can be full or partial or on percentage or based on tuition or fixed or variable or based on formulas or tables or trend or the like. In one embodiment we can have delay for payment from the stores and we also put a margin of time for the returned merchandise to offset the total sales for the period. In one embodiment we can have the payment done to the charity first and invoice the stores later. In one embodiment we can have the reverse of the above to have the money in hand before paying the charity as a delay payment schedule.

In one embodiment we can have a credit card from a bank associated with the website so that a percentage goes to charities with participation of a payment processor. In one embodiment we can have student tuition divided or allocated or specified based on subclasses e.g. based on gender major university area of the country ethnicity age grades background or the like to focus and help a specific group or subset of population who may need the tuition or assistance more than others. In one embodiment we can have the badge system based on milestones achieved for all parties e.g. GOLD BADGE e.g. for weekly goals.

In one embodiment we can have cookie to track activities and patterns. In one embodiment we can have various merchants old relationships lots of donations lots of transactions and the like. In one embodiment we have plug in to overtake the web page to customize for the look and interface. In one embodiment we have legal agreements between parties on line for review and electronic signature e.g. using PKI or biometrics or passwords. In one embodiment we have universities sign in or we invite them based on a student from the school requesting for scholarship which requires information from school including verification of the university s identity secure transmission certificate PKI name of authority telephone number of the authorized person methods of secured verifications for university ID student ID name and enrolment status as well as tuition and student s balance account status all done automatically. In one embodiment we have the verification of university by a person being done manually using a computer interface or by phone or email or any communication means.

In one embodiment we have university accounting department linking directly or communicating directly with our system so that the fund transfer is done securely and automatically with minimum delay. In one embodiment we have universities as partners or shareholders in our company for good will and advertising. In one embodiment we display the awarded students and charities as highlights for advertising on our site or computer display or marketing material. In one embodiment we have grad undergrad categories major field student ID name biometrics password and the like for school interface questionnaire. In one embodiment we have student in queue for availability of funds or getting full amount accumulated for future payment or installments. In one embodiment we have a number assigned to a student for random draw for lottery for award. In one embodiment we have tuition awards based on need verifiable by the school per semester automatically. In one embodiment we have one tuition bank. In one embodiment we have multiple tuition banks.

In one embodiment we have more weight for students waiting more in the queue to award as an adjustment to award faster. In one embodiment we have confirmation notice or email to the student as well as using it as an ad. In one embodiment we have charity portal with interface for sign in sign up ID number for charity upload logo for charity web site link email contact info other info mission of charity with total averages over time performance subclass break downs on usage and different expenditure on different causes overhead salaries other expenses marketing cost executive salary and benefits non profit status tax deduction eligibility for donors IRS validation of status third party validation of status total so far last transaction pending ones last month summary year to date history trend sources stores and the like.

In one embodiment we have piggy bank distribution being based on FIFO proportion to total need based merit based student GPA score based and the like. In one embodiment a merchant can have a filter for a list of approved charities as well as a filter for the consumer so that the 2 filters can work in series limiting the list even further as the two are AND ed together. In one embodiment we have a list of approved suggested charities for users if they need to suggest to them for each category such as environmental causes. In one embodiment the cause is related to the time of the year in calendar such as environmental causes for Earth Day which we can remind the user on screen of computer or on her device mobile phone with suggestions. In one embodiment we i.e. the system check for the public databases for verification of charities e.g. from Give Well plus their performance and parameters. In one embodiment our internal search engine or filter can filter the charities e.g. for charities with their overhead less than a threshold which can be filtered and listed in order of lowest to highest overhead for the user consumer. Other parameters can be used for limiting the search result for the charities such as topic or geographical areas. In one embodiment the system uses a rules engine for that purpose with If Then rules for decision making

In one embodiment the system has a suggestion box for adding charities or verify charities by us. In one embodiment the system approves the merchants versus a bad actor list to filter porn sites or similar sites generated by us or third party to avoid known bad actors as much as possible. In one embodiment the system has templates for small entities to sign in so that they do not need their own IT work for interface. However for bigger entities for customization the system allows variety or customized look for each entity with SDK and API offered to them. In one embodiment the system automatically tracks the returns and subtracts them from the running sum so that there is no cheating or unfair transaction recorded against any entity store merchant.

In one embodiment the system processes in batch form for all transactions or does it one by one as they come. In one embodiment the merchant has a key or password that changes in time for security purpose. In one embodiment the system lets the user uses the personal or group login or information from other social web sites or transfer the information for new account. In one embodiment the system lets the merchant or user add more cash to the original donation e.g. suggesting as rounded number added or total being a rounded number e.g. an integer value. In one embodiment the system lets the user suggest merchandise store charity or cause to friends with invitation or links or interface provided or the information about the charity or store attached or linked.

In one embodiment the system lets the user chooses the charity contribution after the cart or purchase. In one embodiment the system lets the user chooses the charity contribution before the cart or purchase. In one embodiment the system lets the user can come and browse as guest. In one embodiment the system lets the user know on screen or notify later by email or text or the like about the transactions and the contributions and all of their details for example as confirmation or receipt or for IRS directly or for accountant directly as certificate.

In one embodiment the system shows the invoice timeline for merchants as a table versus time in 2D for staggered events happening for collection and disbursement of the funds and when to invoice or collect or remind the store to pay as markers in the timeline for the table of events and accounts. See for an example showing different actions and deadlines for different periods of time as scheduled in a staggered manner displayed in the format of or using a rule engine to make that automatically executed by computer.

In one embodiment the system has selection of countries and currencies or exchange rates with some designated countries or charities in the forbidden lists to avoid for various safety and legal reasons. In one embodiment the system has various languages and translations with localization. In one embodiment the system has grace period for payments with contract online for different parties approved with electronic signature and verification e.g. PKI. In one embodiment the system has multiple groups e.g. merchants charities consumers friends schools with scholarships and students applying for scholarships all registering and involved in this process benefiting from the transactions described here. In one embodiment the system has a newsletter for users of all type or targeted for specific interests. In one embodiment the system has opt in out for the newsletters. In one embodiment the system has a poll survey for the parties.

In one embodiment the system has a content management system. In one embodiment the system shows how many percent of donors donate H percent of the sales for various H values. In one embodiment the system includes customer name ID email ID charity ID donations from customer date status paid or pending and the like. In one embodiment the system suggests some value for the donations based on the income or history or sales price or pattern or average of people or income bracket or position at work or location in country or season or economy or stock index or inflation or past year tax bracket or salary.

In one embodiment the system collects information about parties e.g. verifies the charity to filter the bad ones e.g. through GuideStar publication 78 of IRS IRS Business Master File automatic exemption revocation list internal revenue bulletin for individual revocations reason for non profit status eligibility to receive tax deductable contributions IRS good standing and as not listed by office of foreign assets control OFAC as specially designated national SND e.g. engaging in support of terrorism or as being under sanction. Thus the bad actors are filtered periodically or based on events leaving the rest as eligible party. In one embodiment the system always checks against the designated lists or databases before any transaction.

In one embodiment the system checks the performance parameters of the charities on the known 3party sites as independent evaluation getting the numbers and use our own formula to come up with Merit Score for each charity e.g. for a higher score we have one factor being the lowest overhead or lowest salary or lowest expenses or more coverage or more impact factor or best match with the user or best feedback or longest time in business or the like. It also depends on disbursement amount fundraising budget and effort and feedback complaint resolution. It can get score using an API from a database or another source application. In one embodiment the system shows the ranking based on score match relevance category geography and or preference causes.

In one embodiment the system shows the most popular charities or preferred in each category. In one embodiment the system divides the funds equally or based on weighted average or weighted or cycle between or based on formula or time table or category or randomly within a category or class per person per class of people per student per group per charity or for all total e.g. 30 percent going to environmental causes or a specific one or the first 3000 US going to environmental causes or a specific one and the next 2000 US to charity number and so on. In one embodiment the fee for tuition bank is coming from our Sparo s profit or income as a percentage or fixed value. In one embodiment the fee for tuition bank is coming directly from the merchant store as a separate item or as a total sum bundle.

In one embodiment the system allows the donation of professional services service packages merchandise or objects as non cash items donated which can be auctioned or matched to or bought by third parties and the proceedings used in the charities as cash later. For example there may be an offer for coupon or restaurant voucher or upgrade on the seat on airplane or free mileage for doing an action by the user which can be donated based on an exchange of donations through our web site or liquidation of such offers to cash or cash equivalent in our donation exchange platform described here.

In one embodiment the system uses an ID for each charity which changes constantly as an index for our own internal table to match with the name of charity so that the hackers cannot hijack the name of charity and use that for their financial benefit because the ID number expires soon and with no notice and becomes ineffective and also indicating a hacker activity or fraud if detected with invalid or expired number later on.

In one embodiment the system lets the user access merchants through our web site. In one embodiment the system lets the user get to an agent through a merchant store. The agent provides cash market for the coupon or offer for a fee or percentage of the deal. In one embodiment the system uses an agent at the backend of the merchant with interface done by merchant and API to backend. In one embodiment the merchant provides the UI or GUI depending on user s profile and purchase history.

In one embodiment the system uses a plug in at users side. In one embodiment the system uses codes at the merchant side. In one embodiment the system uses a signature or ID to refer to a merchant website. In one embodiment the system uses a social networking for boosting the participation. In one embodiment the system uses a return merchandise authorization time margin within our invoice delay time period or fund release to make sure nobody can cheat the system.

In one embodiment the system uses a merchant approved list or forbidden list or blocked list or priority list for charities from which it gets filtered and the same mechanism can be applied to consumers users as well. For example after 5000 US is given to charity in category then the rest or next 2000 US or a percentage goes to charity and so on based on priority listing. The filters for filtering for each party can be in series ANDed together or multiplied together as the INTERSECTION or in parallel ORed together or added together as the UNION in mathematical form or set theory format.

In one embodiment the system uses tabs for display for stores or charities for international national state local and favorite ones. In one embodiment the system uses acceptance form for all parties after their reading the agreement online with disclaimers and tax laws or warnings plus privacy issues and ethical concerns to digitally sign or accept the agreement so that the process moves on for each stage including e.g. students schools charities stores and third parties e.g. auction houses.

In one embodiment the system uses an addition based on absolute value or relative value or percentage or ratio for added donation at the checkout for added value. In one embodiment the system uses a suggested percentage to donate based on size or revenue or profit or number of employees or stores or market cap of the company or industry type or average of industry or class or profit margins or geography or people or users or heuristic or the like.

In one embodiment the system invites the charities to sign up or alternatively they come and signup at our website or gets suggested or recommended by users or members. In one embodiment the system lets the user changes percentages of the contributions and divisions between charities or schools based on time table formula listing rules if then conditions schedules and the like over time or for future and keep the data for reference if needed. In one embodiment the system uses all the data as marketing for other related purposes as individual or aggregated for all or averages.

In one embodiment the system uses a record of all usages from piggy bank to keep track of all distributions to proper charities and schools for proper receipt generated automatically or upon request for IRS tax purposes e.g. 100 percent compliance with tax codes or minimum value for a specific purpose or maximum time remaining in piggy bank. That is due to tax codes for proper year it has to be spent or released from the piggy bank. Otherwise in case of no action by the user the default is to release the fund before deadline for tax purposes by Sparo automatically before deadline to a random or listed charities or schools. In one embodiment the system does not let the fund stay in the accounts indefinitely enforcing a known deadline or giving warning to user or forcing a distribution of a fund to charities or schools if the user fails to act or respond on time causing tax violations or legal problems which can be avoided by this method automatically and also certified sent accordingly for IRS or the CPA.

In one embodiment the system subtracts school funds directly from merchant contribution. In one embodiment the system uses our profit or income as the source of school funds which has different tax consequences for the parties involved as the donor for deductions. In one embodiment the system uses multiple charities or school banks or funds or the like to stagger over time and grow together as shown on display for all parties to see e.g. using bar diagram or sliding ruler growing in parallel e.g. student account growing in value on display.

In one embodiment the system has multiple consumers and our web sites in the middle connecting to multiple charities and schools each without or with any filtering on the available choices or each time can be chosen by the user or each time using a predetermined list or preferences or rules disbursing the funds e.g. based on FIFO first in first out rule or other methods and keeping track of all division of funds and allocations for tax purposes and reports to users or parties for IRS or tax government authorities.

In one embodiment the system uses multiple versions of tuition banks e.g. local state national international or favorite for usage e.g. per student and per schools. In one embodiment the system uses the data for the first time user or one time user or un signed user if the user desires to merge add or accumulate the contributions or funds or scores or parameters from multiple accounts of the same user party or one time usage into a single account per user s request so that the user can get credit for that session. Of course the identity of the user is checked with PKI encryption keys passwords certificates by a validation authority and or biometrics. In one embodiment in case of lost signup information by any party the system helps to recover password and other account parameters if the user can prove the identity in other forms e.g. by re emailing a new password to the original email using a unique ID for the user s account. In one embodiment the system lets user log in or sign up and create a new account before or after the donation and or before or after purchase transaction.

In one embodiment the system shows how much in each account is accumulated up to now or in average or monthly or weekly. In one embodiment the system distinguishes the user as e.g. environmentalist based on history to filter and get the related organizations searched or listed automatically. In one embodiment the system uses the State Dept. filter for unwanted organizations or countries to filter out. In one embodiment the system rounds up numbers or values or rounds down for dollar values or truncates the numbers to nearest dollar cent 10 cents 5 cents or the like for ease of use for individual items or for totals. In one embodiment the system uses tel. call or email to verify a university for the first time or use a 3party organization. In one embodiment the system lets the user save parameters or use pre set values or share with friends or email or transfer the data. In one embodiment the system lets the user uses preference degrees such as high or low or use numbers such as 10 or percentage or binary yes or no for charities or parameters or mixture of the above. In one embodiment the system uses the local relative to user location currently or permanently as options. In one embodiment the system uses the list of search parameters as filters on screen by user.

In one embodiment the system uses multiple items from merchant e.g. one with deep discount not eligible for any charity contributions making it a separate account for tracking as eligible and not eligible items as well as an account for returned items for accountability and subtractions from total especially against fraud against the system.

In one embodiment the system uses a pop up or regular window for menu for display for parties to choose the options or see the options. In one embodiment the system uses this model 

In one embodiment the system uses best or most popular charities on the top of the list as promoted each time for display for ranking. In one embodiment the system uses an event drive for local or national charities with customized page based on API provided for customized display with announcements to people or members of groups or prior donors for the cause if they did not opt out for related or general announcements. In one embodiment the funds are actually at the piggy bank. In one embodiment the funds are shown in piggy bank as placeholders but are actually at the merchant s possession which once selected will be transferred directly to charities as specified.

In one embodiment the system uses API with one example shown below. The eCommerce website customers apply the donation to their website. So we have 

Create an XML API which at first verifies the Subscription by sending Subscription Key and Subscribers User Name and a Request Code.

Transaction id Specify a transaction ID or a comma separated list of transaction IDs to retrieve information only on specific transaction s . Not Required. Only Required if Status Cancelled or Updated . 

In one embodiment we have Sparo.com High level Website Overview as shown below Note that Sparo refers to our web site. 

In other words revenue from total transactions in a given month will not be considered finalized and secured until 60 days after the given month.

In one embodiment we use games to encourage usage of our platform for charity and in some examples in combination with the school tuition or scholarships with charities. The money in the pot increases and once it gets to some level or threshold it can be assigned or withdrawn or transferred to a charity or school or person toward its account for scholarship involving a merchant and same security mechanism that was explained elsewhere in this disclosure. The people can play the game everyday with large user base and very frequently as hobby. The game may have extra life for the game character to survive for another round or higher level of the game which in some embodiment can be bought from the merchant once they pay the merchant e.g. when the user buys a shirt from the merchant web site the user gets a point which can be added to buy an extra life in the game for future or next round.

In one embodiment we use some random number generator to increase the chance of small unknown charities or scholarships or schools to come up in the list or rank for all choices for democratizing the system for all sizes and types to reorder the listing or rankings for all to bring the lower listed items higher randomly for higher chances of selections in the process or shorter period on the waiting list.

In one embodiment we use a pot for all not specific to a particular charity or school. In one embodiment we use a platform for all games to hook in as agnostic so that we can get a third party game bought or collaborated or just added in and seamlessly add or subtract a game without touching the other end of the platform dealing with schools and charities plus merchants. So we have a standard interface with a SDK and API to hook in from a third party or our own so that the games can flourish independent of the charity side of the platform. In one embodiment we use piggy bank. In one embodiment we have many users involved for multiuser games all contributing to the piggy bank. In one embodiment we use a shooting game. In one embodiment we use a 3D game. In one embodiment we use a puzzle video block game similar to Candy Crush from a third party.

In one embodiment we use multiple prizes and grand prize for small charities and all charities to encourage new charities to join. In one embodiment we use dollar value proportional to the users and contributions and vote on a charity as average or weighted average. In one embodiment we use ads and sponsors or merchants or manufacturers to promote something on screen or on the side during the game as sponsored box or view or in the middle of game screen for good view by player or user to promote the source of money for the charity or school funds to increase the sales or awareness of brand and increase the conversion or click rates for objects or merchants or ads. In one embodiment we use merchants money. In one embodiment we use players money. In one embodiment we use a button or menu at different stages of transaction to show Sparo button for charity or school funds to attract the people to participate and contribute bringing more sales and conversion for the merchant as an advertisement for goods and goodwill. shows an example of a system of the game for charity or school funds.

In one embodiment we use a block shooting or matching puzzle type game where the game is based on the blocks named or assigned to a charity of choice or a school with color or initials or markings of the block set by the player or user or consumer or member of public to identify the entity where if the block is selected or hit or collected it would add to the pot for one or more players in one or more games to add a score for total for charity to pay off for at the end of the period e.g. day or hour or week or when passes a threshold as an absolute number. In one embodiment we use collaboration or Facebook announcement between friends or from other social sites to invite friends or others to get and help the cause or announce to others how much a player helped a charity or school so far as a badge of honor or star ranking to brag about or be proud of for a good cause. shows an example of a game for charity or school funds with blocks for points or life in a game for redeeming for future e.g. for playing more or saving the character in the game or going the higher level or getting lifeline or getting the hints for the game or solve the puzzle.

A method of distribution of charity funding using a game said method comprising receiving by a computer an order by a user for a merchandise from a merchant site obtaining by said computer a price for said merchandise from a price database associating by said computer a donation value to said ordered merchandise wherein an authentication module runs on said computer receiving by said computer said donation value into a first account running a game on a game module connected to said computer wherein said game comprises a character functioning in said game assigning by said computer a number of lives to said character related to said game wherein said number of lives for said character is a function of said price for said merchandise playing said character in said game by said user according to said number of lives for said character selecting a first charity from a list of charities performing by said computer cross domain scripting for said merchant site wherein a first domain corresponds to said selected first charity creating by said computer a file including script elements for said merchant site obtaining by said computer a source of said script elements from said merchant site and writing said source of said script elements into a second domain via web services and dynamic script tags dynamically creating by said computer a script tag and writing said script tag into said second domain wherein said source of said script elements is executed by said authentication module referencing and comparing by said authentication module said script tag against a remote script source for verification purposes and upon verification by said authentication module allocating by said computer a portion of said donation value from said first account to said first charity.

A computer program or collection of programs comprising computer executable instructions according to embodiments of the donation agent described herein can be stored and transported on machine readable media such as magnetic tape floppy disk CD ROM and fixed disk. The computer instructions can be retrieved from the machine readable media using a suitable reading device into a memory and executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions can be distributed across a plurality of media such as on physically separate storage devices respectively associated with physically separate computer systems that can communicate via a network. The functionality disclosed hereinabove for performing the embodiments may find specific implementations in a variety of forms which are considered to be within the abilities of a programmer of ordinary skill in the art after having reviewed the disclosure.

A suitable environment for implementing various aspects of the subject matter described herein includes a computer. The computer includes a processing unit a system memory a codec and a system bus. The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit. The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit.

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 664 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and non volatile memory. The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in non volatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. According to present aspects the volatile memory may store the write operation retry logic and the like. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM and enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM .

Computer may also include removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. It also includes for example a disk storage which includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive solid state disk SSD floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 60 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used.

Note that the software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources is positioned in the suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer. Applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data such as the boot shutdown transaction table and the like stored either in system memory or on disk storage. Note that the subject matter described herein can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device. There are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapter includes by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus. It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device a smart phone a tablet or other network node and typically includes many of the elements described relative to computer. Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then connected via communication connection s . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN and cellular networks. LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the system bus. The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and wired and wireless Ethernet cards hubs and routers.

The system e.g. includes one or more client s which can include an application or a system that accesses a service on the server s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s metadata and or associated contextual information by employing the specification for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware or hardware in combination with software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform for example interest point detection distorting merging pruning mixing fingerprint generation matching score generation or fingerprint comparisons in accordance with the subject disclosure. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes where the data packet contains for example an audio sample. The data packet can include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers.

This may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The systems and processes described herein can be embodied within hardware such as a single integrated circuit IC chip multiple ICs an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. Further the order in which some or all of the process blocks appear in each process should not be deemed limiting. Rather it should be understood that some of the process blocks can be executed in a variety of orders that are not all of which may be explicitly illustrated herein.

