---

title: Adaptive task assignment for online games that uses player profiles
abstract: Software at an online game website assigns to a player of a massively multiplayer online (MMO) game a first game task in a conditional series of game tasks. The assignment is based at least in part on a measure of difficulty associated with the first game task. The measure of difficulty depends on a profile associated with the player that includes an Active Social Network (ASN) metric as determined by data that has been read from an in-memory database and that has been retrieved from a social networking website through an application programming interface (API) exposed by the social networking website. Then the software provides a reward to the player upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks. The reward depends at least in part on the game tasks in the conditional series of game tasks that were completed by the player.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09604145&OS=09604145&RS=09604145
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09604145
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151026
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 875 278 entitled Adaptive Task Assignment for Online Games which was filed on May 1 2013 and which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 675 819 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 676 325 which were filed on Jul. 26 2012. This application is also a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 875 266 entitled Adaptive Task Assignment for Online Games That Uses Player Profiles which was filed on May 1 2013 and which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 675 819 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 676 325 which were filed on Jul. 26 2012. This application incorporates by reference the disclosures of each of the applications identified above.

A massively multiplayer online MMO game is capable of supporting thousands of players simultaneously. Typically such games involve video. A social MMO game is a MMO that leverages an online social graph or network to make an MMO game more interesting to its players. Often social graphs are maintained by social networking websites such as Facebook or social media websites such as MySpace. But one might think of a contact list buddy list or another similar access control list ACL as also being a social graph.

Keeping players engaged in social MMO games is important to revenue generation e.g. from the purchase of virtual goods or from third party advertisements. If players are assigned game tasks that are too difficult for them to accomplish players tend to become discouraged and withdraw from the game leading to a reduction in revenue. But player attrition can also occur if players are assigned game tasks that are too easy and become bored. Consequently finding the sweet spot in terms of difficulty for game tasks continues to be an ongoing area of research and experimentation for the designers of social MMO games.

In an example embodiment a processor executed method is described for engaging players in a massively multiplayer online MMO game. According to the method software at a MMO game website assigns to a player of an MMO game a first game task in a conditional series of game tasks. Each game task includes a specified duration. At least one of the game tasks in the conditional series of game tasks is a social game task that can be completed with the assistance of one or more persons associated with the player by an access control list. The software determines whether the player completed the first game task within the specified duration. If the player did not complete the first game task within the specified duration the software assigns the player a second game task in the conditional series of game tasks that is less difficult to complete than the first game task. If the player completes the first game task within the specified duration the software assigns the player a third game task in the conditional series of game tasks that is more difficult to complete than the first game task. Then the software provides a reward to the player upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks. The reward depends at least in part on the game tasks in the conditional series of game tasks that are completed by the player.

In another example embodiment an apparatus is described namely computer readable storage media that persistently store a program for engaging players in a MMO game. The program might be part of the software at a MMO game website. The program assigns to a player of an MMO game a first game task in a conditional series of game tasks. Each game task includes a specified duration. At least one of the game tasks in the conditional series of game tasks is a social game task that can be completed with the assistance of one or more persons associated with the player by an access control list. The program determines whether the player completed the first game task within the specified duration. If the player did not complete the first game task within the specified duration the program assigns the player a second game task in the conditional series of game tasks that is less difficult to complete than the first game task. If the player completes the first game task within the specified duration the program assigns the player a third game task in the conditional series of game tasks that is more difficult to complete than the first game task. Then the program provides a reward to the player upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks. The reward depends at least in part on the game tasks in the conditional series of game tasks that are completed by the player.

Another example embodiment also an apparatus namely a system. The system includes one or more processors and a memory in communication with the one or more processors and storing instructions that are executable by the processors. The instructions assign to a player of an MMO game a first game task in a conditional series of game tasks. Each game task includes a specified duration. At least one of the game tasks in the conditional series of game tasks is a social game task that can be completed with the assistance of one or more persons associated with the player by an access control list. The instructions determine whether the player completed the first game task within the specified duration. If the player did not complete the first game task within the specified duration the instructions assign the player a second game task in the conditional series of game tasks that is less difficult to complete than the first game task. If the player completes the first game task within the specified duration the instructions assign the player a third game task in the conditional series of game tasks that is more difficult to complete than the first game task. Then the instructions provide a reward to the player upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks. The reward depends at least in part on the game tasks in the conditional series of game tasks that are completed by the player.

Other aspects and advantages of the inventions will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the inventions.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the exemplary embodiments. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the example embodiments may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances process operations and implementation details have not been described in detail if already well known.

The personal computing device might be a a laptop or other personal computer or b a mobile device such as a smartphone e.g. an iPhone Blackberry Android etc. a tablet computer e.g. an iPad etc. In an example embodiment each of the websites and might be composed of a number of servers connected by a network e.g. a local area network LAN or a WAN to each other in a cluster or other distributed system which might execute cloud platform software. The servers in website and might also be connected e.g. by a storage area network SAN to persistent storages and respectively. In an example embodiment persistent storages and might include a redundant array of independent disks RAID .

Persistent storage might be used to store algorithms and data related to an MMO game and its players including data about the players received by website from website e.g. through an application programming interface API exposed by website . In an example embodiment some of the data from persistent storage might be cached in memory cache in volatile memory on servers on website e.g. using a an in memory database or main memory database system MMDB or b a hybrid in memory database that also uses persistent storage in order to improve performance. Persistent storage might be used to store data including content associated with a profile and or stream for members of a social network or social graph e.g. users who are associated with each other through access control lists ACLs .

As indicated above personal computing device might be a laptop or other personal computer. In that event personal computing device and the servers in website and might include 1 hardware consisting of one or more microprocessors e.g. from the x86 family or the PowerPC family volatile storage e.g. RAM and persistent storage e.g. a hard disk or solid state drive and 2 an operating system e.g. Windows Mac OS Linux Windows Server Mac OS Server etc. that runs directly or indirectly e.g. through virtualization software on the hardware. Or the operating system for the servers might be replaced by a hypervisor or other virtualization software. Alternatively personal computing device might be a smartphone tablet computer or other mobile device that includes 1 hardware consisting of one or more low power microprocessors e.g. from the ARM family volatile storage e.g. RAM and persistent storage e.g. flash memory such as microSD and 2 an operating system e.g. Symbian OS RIM BlackBerry OS iPhone OS Palm webOS Windows Mobile Android Linux etc. that runs on the hardware.

Also in an example embodiment personal computing device might include a web browser as an application program or part of an operating system. Examples of web browsers that might execute on personal computing device if it is a laptop or other personal computer include Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Safari and Google Chrome. Examples of browsers that might execute on personal computing device if it is a smartphone tablet computer or other mobile device include Safari Mozilla Firefox Android Browser and Palm webOS Browser. It will be appreciated that users of personal computing device might use browsers to communicate with software running on the servers at website and at website . Alternatively users of personal computing device might use other application programs to communicate with software running on the servers at website and at website . For example if the personal computing device is a smartphone tablet computer or other mobile device users might use an app or a hybrid app e.g. an app written in Objective C or Java that includes embedded HTML5 to communicate with software running on the servers at website and at website . It will be appreciated that an application program for a mobile device is often referred to as an app .

Returning to server software includes load balancers e.g. the load balancing and virtualization software provided by Citrix VMware Microsoft or Xen that balance the load between the servers e.g. Apache HTTP servers in an elastic or dynamic array . It will be appreciated that the array is elastic because its size can be increased to accommodate additional servers and decreased to accommodate fewer servers. As further depicted in the servers in the elastic array transmit e.g. using HTTP data to and receive data from a the web browser or app and b the servers on a social networking website such as Facebook. In an example embodiment the servers might read data from and write data to memory cache e.g. a memory cache created with memcached and managed with Couchbase Server which in turn is backed by database which might be MySQL. In an alternative example embodiment the database might be NoSQL. It will be appreciated that performance latencies can be significantly reduced by such a caching arrangement which exploits locality of reference. It will also be appreciated that memory cache in corresponds to the memory cache in and the persistent storage in corresponds to the database in . In an example embodiment synch queue might receive the data from memory cache to be written asynchronously to the database . As indicated on the functional software modularization depicted in the figure might be implemented as a LAMMP Linux Apache Memcache MySQL PHP architecture in an example embodiment.

In server software includes load balancers that balance the load between the servers in an elastic array . As further depicted in this figure the servers in the elastic array transmit data to and receive data from a the web browser or app and b the servers on a social networking website such as Facebook. In an example embodiment the servers might read data from and write data to a hybrid in memory database and which persists data e.g. a hybrid in memory database such as Membase Couchbase Server .

As depicted in software running on one or more servers at website e.g. Zynga assigns a game task in a conditional series of game tasks to a player of an MMO game in operation . As used in this disclosure a conditional series of game tasks which might be one or more game tasks is referred to as a game quest or a game quest line which might include multiple game quests . Each game task in the series of game tasks includes a specified duration. Consequently in some example embodiments a game quest or game quest line might include a specified duration e.g. a specified duration derived from the specified durations of the individual game tasks in the game quest or game quest line . One or more of the game tasks in the conditional series might be a social game task that can be completed with the assistance of persons associated with the player by an access control list ACL on the MMO game website or a social networking website e.g. the player s Facebook friends. For example in the Zynga game Caf World a player might be tasked with requesting a virtual good such as a kitchen utensil from the player s friends or neighbors on a social network possibly including friends who are not presently players of the MMO game. The software might facilitate such a request by broadcasting the request to the player s friends through the use of an application programming interface API which might be a web API exposed by software running on a social networking website e.g. website in . Examples of such APIs include Facebook REST API Facebook Graph API Twitter API Bebo s Social Networking API SNAPI OpenSocial API etc. It will be appreciated that the Facebook APIs allow authorized third parties e.g. third parties with an access token and or permissions to access a user s Facebook profile and the stream e.g. Facebook News Feed associated with that profile.

In operation the software determines whether the player completed the assigned game task within the specified duration. And in operation the software assigns the player a new game task in the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line that is less difficult than the earlier game task e.g. serving a smaller number of servings of a dish e.g. caramel apple in Zynga s Caf World if the player did not complete the earlier game task within the specified duration. Or in operation the software assigns the player a new game task in the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line that is more difficult than the earlier game task e.g. serving a larger number of servings of a dish e.g. caramel apple in Zynga s Caf World if the player completed the earlier game task within the specified duration. It will be appreciated that operations and are alternative operations that might be implemented using conditional logic e.g. an if then else statement or a case statement. The operations are only numbered sequentially for purposes of identification. Then in operation the software provides a reward to the player e.g. virtual good such as a recipe virtual currency such as Caf Cash CC in Zynga s Caf World experience points etc. that depends on the game tasks in the conditional series that are completed by player upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line . In an example embodiment the game mechanics for the MMO game might allow the player to use virtual currency e.g. which can be purchased with real money earned as a reward in an MMO game received as a gift etc. to purchase completion of a game task that the player did not complete e.g. so as to receive a full reward upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line .

The conditional series of game tasks described in might be represented as a deterministic finite state machine where the inputs to the state machine are success and failure. Such a state machine is shown as in where as indicated in the figure s callout the difficulty of a game task refers to a serve task e.g. Task 2 as described below in an example embodiment. In another example embodiment the difficulty of a game task might refer to a a serve task e.g. Task 2 as described below or b a social game task e.g. Tasks 1 and or Task 3 described below . Further as depicted by the schematic in each game task in the conditional series of game tasks might include several subtasks. That is to say as shown in schematic a quest line might consist of 100 conditional quests where each quest consists of three game tasks or game subtasks and has a specified duration of three days.

In an example embodiment the software might automatically generate quests for such a quest line of 100 quests using a task taxonomy similar to the following which relates to a Cook A Thon quest line in Zynga s Caf World. As indicated above each of the 100 quests in the quest line might include three game tasks. Task 1 in each quest might involve asking e.g. using a social network as described above for a number e.g. 10 N where N is described as below of a particular part or component such as a postcard e.g. a B part as further described below. This game task might be accomplished by receiving the part through a stream e.g. Facebook s News Feed on a social network. And completion of this game task might be purchased using virtual currency e.g. 40 K Caf Cash CC where K is further described below. Task 2 in each quest might involve reaching a level e.g. level m equal to 1 2 etc. of mastery for a dish such as a caramel apple e.g. dish A as further described below. Again completion of this game task might be purchased using virtual currency e.g. 60 K Caf Cash CC . Task 3 in each quest might involve asking for a number e.g. 10 N of a particular part or component such as recipe card e.g. a C part as further described below. This game task might be accomplished by asking for the part e.g. from a friend on a social network. And completion of this game task might be purchased using virtual currency e.g. 40 K Caf Cash CC .

In an example embodiment N increases by 1 for every 5 quests so that N would be 30 parts for the 100quest in the quest line. K increases by 5 for every 10 quests so K for the 100quest would be 90 CC for Task 1 110 CC for Task 2 and 90 CC for Task 3. Also in an example embodiment the purchase price for a game task that involves dishes e.g. Task 2 might go up by 10 CC every 10 quests.

Also in an example embodiment Task 2 for Quest 1 might be to Serve Caramel Apple 30 times . For Quests 2 100 Task 2 might be as follows for even quests reach level 1 mastery for dish A where A might be the dish rewarded in the most recent quest as further described below and for odd quests reach level 2 mastery for dish A where A might be the dish rewarded in the most recent quest as further described below . For Parts B and C the software might reuse ten different parts 2 per quest repeating after every five quests.

In an example embodiment if a player fails the previous dish goal e.g. Task 2 the software might cycle through the following set of four dish goals as a Task 2 that are less difficult anywhere in a quest line 1 Serve Chips and Guacamole 30 times 2 Serve Super Chunk Fruit Salad 30 times 3 Serve Bacon Cheeseburger 30 times and 4 Serve Caramel Apple 30 times . And if the player fails a mastery level 1 goal the software might repeat this goal in the next quest. shows a rewards table that might be used with the task taxonomy described above. The columns in the rewards table are labeled with the quest number e.g. from 1 100. The rows are labeled with rewards e.g. a a dish to master as in the first row from the top of rewards table or b Random spice 500 XP in the second row from the top of rewards table where XP stands for experience points and the random spice is awarded based on equal probability between Instant Thyme Mastery Mint Power Pepper Super Salt 1 hour Thyme 6 hour Thyme and 12 hour Thyme in Zynga s Caf World.

Further as shown in chart in of all the players who played or engaged with a social MMO game with NGAQL e.g. Cook A Thon quest line in Zynga s Caf World 58 did so after failing one or more game tasks. And as shown in chart in for a player in a social MMO game with NGAQL e.g. Cook A Thon quest line in Zynga s Caf World the average number of game tasks completed by the player after a first failed game task was over 6 and the median number of game tasks completed by the player after a first failed game task was approximately 4.

As depicted in software running on one or more servers at website e.g. Zynga assigns game tasks in a conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line to a player of an MMO game based at least in part on a measure of difficulty that depends on the player s profile e.g. the game resources possessed by player and or a metric related to a social graph of the player in operation . One or more of the game tasks in the conditional series might be a social game task that can be completed with the assistance of persons associated with the player by an ACL on the MMO game website or a social networking website e.g. the player s Facebook friends. For example in the Zynga game Caf World a player might be tasked with requesting a virtual good such as a kitchen utensil from the player s friends on a social network possibly including friends who are not presently players of the MMO game. Here again the software might facilitate such a request by broadcasting the request to the player s friends through the use of an API exposed by software running on a social networking website e.g. website in .

In operation the software provides a reward to the player e.g. virtual good such as a recipe virtual currency experience points etc. that depends on the game tasks in the conditional series that are completed by player upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line . In an example embodiment the game mechanics for the MMO game might allow the player to use virtual currency to purchase completion of a game task that the player did not complete e.g. so as to receive a full reward upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line .

As indicated above the measure of difficulty used to assign tasks in depends on the player s profile. In an example embodiment the player s profile might include data related to such things as 1 the game resources possessed by the player e.g. stove burners or stove tops and or stove speed in the Zynga game Caf World 2 the player s game task completion or performance history in the current MMO game and or other MMO games e.g. as measured by player level in terms of experience points 3 an online social graph associated with the player or a metric related to such a social graph and 4 the game tasks that have already been assigned to the player. An example of such a metric is active social network ASN for a player. In an alternative example embodiment the measure of difficulty might also depend on the player profiles of other players who are on a team with the player e.g. a team performing a collaborative game task.

In an example embodiment ASN might be a count of the friends e.g. as determined by an ACL on a MMO game website and or a social networking website of the player with whom the player has had a reciprocal or closed interaction loop within a duration window that is within a recency period. In an example embodiment a reciprocal or closed interaction loop might involve 1 an initial message and a response message or 2 an initial message and an action in response to the message e.g. a visit to a private game space and or a corresponding action there. An example of the latter is a visit to a restaurant and trying a daily special in the Zynga game Caf World. So if the player has sent a message e.g. a message pursuant to a messaging protocol such as email instant messaging SMS etc. that might include text images audio video etc. to a friend and the friend has responded with a message within a specified duration window e.g. one week after the initial message is sent that friend might be included in the count assuming the duration window is within a specified recency period e.g. one week from the time of counting . Likewise if the friend has sent a message to the player and the player has responded with a visit to the friend s private game space and a corresponding action there within a specified duration window e.g. one week after the message is sent that friend might be included in the count assuming the duration window is within a specified recency period e.g. one week from the time of counting .

In an example embodiment the ASN count might include friends of the player who are players of the MMO game which might be social at the MMO game website and friends who are players of other MMO games which might be social at the MMO game website. Alternatively the ASN count might include the friends the player on a social networking website regardless of whether they are players of the MMO game or other MMO games. Likewise in an example embodiment the message sent to a friend or to a player might relate to the MMO game or other MMO games in order to qualify as a message for purposes of an ASN count. In an alternative example embodiment the message sent to a friend or to a player might qualify as a message for purposes of an ASN count regardless of the subject matter of the message. In still other example embodiments the ASN count might be adjusted to reflect the type of message sent. For example a reciprocal or closed interaction loop might be discounted e.g. by a fraction decimal less than 1 if the initial message is a template message provided by the MMO game and the message is sent in response results from a click on a graphical user interface GUI control on the template message. And a reciprocal or closed interaction loop might be multiplied amplified e.g. by a fraction decimal greater than 1 if the initial message and or the message is sent in response is a personal message e.g. not a template message.

In an alternative example embodiment ASN might be a count of friends e.g. as determined by an ACL on a MMO game website and or a social networking website of the player who are daily active users DAUs of the MMO or other MMO games within a recency period time e.g. a week . And a user might be considered to be active if the user has initiated a game task which might be a social game task within the recency period. For example if the game task is a social game task a user might be classified as an active user if the user has sent a message related to the MMO game to a friend within the recency period.

In an example embodiment the game resources possessed by a player might determine e.g. on a linear basis between a specified minimum and a specified maximum or on a step function basis the number of task units assigned to a player in a game task. Thus in a game like Caf World a player might be assigned a game task of 3 servings of a particular dish within 3 hours if the player has an inventory of 3 burners or stove tops whereas a player with only 1 burner or stove top might be assigned a game task of only 1 serving of the particular dish within 3 hours. Similarly in an example embodiment the ASN of a player might determine e.g. on a linear basis between a specified minimum and a specified maximum or on a step function basis the number of friend as determined by an ACL requests assigned to a player in a game task that is social.

It will also be appreciated that the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line described in might differ from one player to another in contrast to the conditional series of game tasks in . For example the initial game task for a player with many game resources might be different from the initial game task for a player with fewer game resources. Thus the latter player might never be assigned any of the game tasks assigned to the former player. And consequently in an example embodiment players might be assigned rewards based on the level of difficulty associated with the game tasks they have completed. For example a player might be assigned a combined score that depends on difficulty values assigned to the non social game tasks that the player has completed and difficulty values assigned to the social game tasks that the player has completed. Then the combined scores for all of the players of the MMO game might be used to create a distribution of scores with a specified number of intervals which determine a corresponding number of rewards for the players of the MMO game e.g. a player whose combined score is in the highest interval will receive the best reward .

As depicted in software running on one or more servers at website e.g. Zynga assigns a game task in a conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line to a player of an MMO game based at least in part on a measure of difficulty that depends on the player s profile e.g. the game resources possessed by player and or a metric related to a social graph of the player in operation . One or more of the game tasks in the conditional series might be a social game task that can be completed with the assistance of persons associated with the player by an ACL on the MMO game website or a social networking website e.g. the player s Facebook friends. For example in the Zynga game Caf World a player might be tasked with requesting a virtual good such as a kitchen utensil from the player s friends on a social network possibly including friends who are not presently players of the MMO game. Here again the software might facilitate such a request by broadcasting the request to the player s friends through the use of an API exposed by software running on a social networking website e.g. website in .

In operation the software determines whether the player completed the assigned game task within a specified duration associated with the game task. And in operation the software assigns the player a new game task in the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line that is less difficult in terms of the player s profile than the earlier game task e.g. serving a smaller number of servings of a dish e.g. caramel apple in Zynga s Caf World if the player did not complete the earlier game task within the specified duration. Or in operation the software assigns the player a new game task in the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line that is more difficult in terms of the player s profile than the earlier game task e.g. serving a larger number of servings of a dish e.g. caramel apple in Zynga s Caf World if the player completed the earlier game task within the specified duration. Here again it will be appreciated that operations and are alternative operations that might be implemented using conditional logic e.g. an if then else statement or a case statement. The operations are only numbered sequentially for purposes of identification. In operation the software provides a reward to the player e.g. virtual good such as a recipe virtual currency experience points etc. that depends on the game tasks in the conditional series that are completed by player upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line . In an example embodiment the game mechanics for the MMO game might allow the player to use virtual currency to purchase completion of a game task that the player did not complete e.g. so as to receive a full reward upon termination of the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line .

As indicated above the measure of difficulty used to assign game tasks in depends on the player s profile. Here again in an example embodiment the player s profile might include data related to such things as 1 the game resources possessed by the player e.g. stove burners or stove tops and or stove speed in the Zynga game Caf World 2 the player s game task completion or performance history in the current MMO game and or other MMO games e.g. as measured by player level in terms of experience points 3 an online social graph associated with the player or a metric related to such a social graph and 4 the game tasks that have already been assigned to the player. An example of such a metric is active social network ASN for a player as described above. In an alternative example embodiment the measure of difficulty might also depend on the player profiles of other players who are on a team with the player e.g. a team performing a collaborative game task.

Here again in an example embodiment the game resources possessed by a player might determine e.g. on a linear basis between a specified minimum and a specified maximum or on a step function basis the number of task units assigned to a player in a game task. Thus in a game like Caf World a player might be assigned a game task of 3 servings of a particular dish within 3 hours if the player has an inventory of 3 burners or stove tops whereas a player with only 1 burner or stove top might be assigned a game task of only 1 serving of the particular dish within 3 hours. Similarly in an example embodiment the ASN of a player might determine e.g. on a linear basis between a specified minimum and a specified maximum or on a step function basis the number of friends as determined by an ACL requests assigned to a player in a game task that is social.

It will be appreciated that the assignment operations and involve a forms of player personalization. In an example embodiment the software might only use the player personalization described in operation without the player personalization described in operations as depicted in . That is to say regardless of whether a player completes an assigned game task within the specified duration if any associated with the game task the software might assign game tasks to the player based at least in part on a measure of difficulty that depends on the player s profile as described above with reference to .

It will also be appreciated that the conditional series of game tasks e.g. a game quest or a game quest line described in might differ from one player to another in contrast to the conditional series of game tasks in . For example the initial game task for a player with many game resources might be different from the initial game task for a player with fewer game resources. Thus the latter player might never be assigned any of the game tasks assigned to the former player. And consequently in an example embodiment players might be assigned rewards based on the level of difficulty associated with the game tasks they have completed. For example a player might be assigned a combined score that depends on difficulty values assigned to the non social game tasks that the player has completed and difficulty values assigned to the social game tasks that the player has completed. Then the combined scores for all of the players of the MMO game might be used to create a distribution of scores with a specified number of intervals which determine a corresponding number of rewards for the players of the MMO game e.g. a player whose combined score is in the highest interval will receive the best reward .

In conclusion show that cash spending on an MMO game can be increased by dynamically assigning fewer social game tasks to a player with a smaller ASN.

In operation 1 the player clicks on a graphic for a social MMO game causing browser to transmit an HTTP request to server software e.g. Facebook for the game s initial web page. In operation 2 server software e.g. Facebook returns an HTML5 and JavaScript JS web page consisting of an iFrame e.g. Facebook chrome and an iFrame HTML tag for the game s initial web page. In operation 3 the browser uses the HTML tag to transmit a request to server software e.g. Zynga for the game s initial web page to display inside the iFrame. The game s initial web page might be an application server page e.g. PHP 5 or an HTML5 page. In operation 4 the application server page executes on server software e.g. Zynga resulting in requests to databases and other servers as needed to complete generation of the web page including possibly an HTTP request not shown transmitted to an API exposed by server software e.g. Facebook . In operation 5 the server software e.g. Zynga returns the game s initial web page e.g. HTML5 and JS for the browser to display in the iFrame.

At some point thereafter in operation 6 the player clicks on a graphic e.g. representing a graphical user interface or GUI widget on a game web page e.g. HTML5 and JS causing browser to transmit an HTTP request to server software e.g. Zynga requesting assistance with a social game task e.g. requesting a kitchen utensil from the player s friends on a social network possibly including friends who are not presently players of the MMO game . In operation 7 the server software e.g. Zynga returns a web page e.g. HTML5 and JS to the browser indicating that the request was received. In operation 8 the server software e.g. Zynga transmits an HTTP request to an API exposed by server software e.g. Facebook posting the request for assistance with a social game task to the profiles e.g. through a Facebook notification and or streams of the requesting player s friends on the social network managed by server software e.g. Facebook . It will be appreciated that in order to access the friends profiles and or streams e.g. using an access token the server software e.g. Zynga might have earlier obtained permission from the friends e.g. when they joined the game or other Zynga games. Then in operation 9 server software e.g. Facebook sends a response e.g. in Java Script Object Notation JSON to server software e.g. Zynga describing the success or failure of the posting to each profile and or stream.

In an alternative example embodiment the game s initial web page or some subsequent web page served up by the game might have an Adobe Flash application e.g. a Small Web Format or SWF file embedded in it. In this alternative example embodiment the user of browser might thereafter interact with the Adobe Flash application e.g. its GUI causing it to interact with the server software e.g. Facebook and the server software e.g. Zynga .

At some point thereafter in operation 4 the player clicks on a graphic e.g. representing a GUI widget on a game web page e.g. HTML5 and JS causing browser to transmit an HTTP request to server software e.g. Zynga requesting assistance with a social game task e.g. requesting a kitchen utensil from the player s friends on a social network possibly including friends who are not presently players of the MMO game . In operation 5 the server software e.g. Zynga returns a web page e.g. HTML5 and JS to the browser indicating that the request was received. In operation 6 the server software e.g. Zynga transmits an HTTP request to an API exposed by server software e.g. Facebook posting the request for assistance with a social game task to the profiles e.g. through a Facebook notification and or streams of the requesting player s friends on the social network managed by server software e.g. Facebook . Here again it will be appreciated that in order to access the friends profiles and or streams e.g. using an access token the server software e.g. Zynga might have earlier obtained permission from the friends e.g. when they joined the game. Then in operation 7 server software e.g. Facebook sends a response e.g. in JSON to server software e.g. Zynga describing the success or failure of the posting to each profile and or stream.

Here again in an alternative example embodiment the game s initial web page or some subsequent web page served by the game might have an Adobe Flash application e.g. a Small Web Format or SWF file embedded in it. In this alternative example embodiment the user of browser might thereafter interact with the Adobe Flash application e.g. its GUI which in turn might interact with the server software e.g. Facebook and the server software e.g. Zynga .

Though the disclosure above has focused on MMO games which might be social some or all of the operations described above might be used in a gamification application rather than in an MMO game. It will be appreciated that gamification involves the use of game design techniques game thinking and game mechanics to enhance tasks performed in non game contexts. So for example some or all of the operations described above might be used in an employee training program e.g. where the game tasks involve learning information relevant to the employee s duties e.g. by analogy to computerized adaptive testing CAT .

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the inventions might employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the inventions are useful machine operations. The inventions also relate to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The inventions can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs DVDs Flash magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although example embodiments of the inventions have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the following claims. The operations described above can be ordered modularized and or distributed in any suitable way. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the inventions are not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the following claims. In the following claims elements and or steps do not imply any particular order of operation unless explicitly stated in the claims or implicitly required by the disclosure.

