---

title: Low collateral damage tunable directional-lethality explosive fragmentation ammunition
abstract: A flexible warhead which can be used for a bunker defeat mechanism. The warhead has a polysterene membrane embedded with lethal tungsten alloy fragments, contains an explosive gel, and also has an attached time delay fuze. The warhead is folded and stored in a case. In use, the warhead is expelled from the case by a propellant and the membrane is exploded with its fragments proximate to impacting a target, after the time delay.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09528801&OS=09528801&RS=09528801
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09528801
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150914
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

In bunker defeat mechanisms for instance it is desired to provide an improved warhead which can deliver a significantly larger quantity of lethal fragments at an intended target. This invention relates to a warhead having means for efficiently storing and ejecting a multiplicity of lethal fragments in a prescribed target direction. This warhead may also nearly completely eliminate collateral damage to a site and minimize unintended casualties or injuries to non combatants.

The above desired effects are achieved using a warhead having a foldable elastomeric fragmentation encasement having a closed membrane of adjustable shape and curvature which will enclose an inner volume of gel or liquid explosive. The elastomeric fragmentation membrane may include a multiplicity of hinge joint tungsten alloy fragments deposited into the elastomeric matrix encasement membrane material. The tungsten alloy fragments may be formed in alternating patterns of triangular rectangular pentagon hexahedral or other shapes. The patterns may be loosely jointed through transverse hinge joint rotational and extensional connections held together by the tension of the elastomeric encasement membrane. The membrane can achieve a control over fragment spray direction. The membrane may be deposited into a light weight carbon fiber composite case and carried within an ammunition. When this warhead is prepared to approach and engage a target site an auxiliary propellant charge may be set off to eject the folded membrane out of the case.

Once the warhead membrane is ejected under the action of the propellant s high pressure gases air drag the explosive and the membrane s inertial forces the membrane unfolds into an explosive fragmentation charge of prescribed shape and curvature. It may then be detonated by a programmable time delayed fuze which was attached to the membrane. According to an embodiment of the invention hinge joint rotational and extensional fragment connections allow for fragmentation membrane flexure and complete reconstitution when unfolding and unfolded into a prescribed shape. When subjected to rapid acceleration in a direction normal to plane of a hinge joint it can self lock delaying premature escape of high pressure detonation products of the gel or liquid explosive. This would thereby maximize kinetic energy transferred to the lethal fragments. Also according to the invention folded fragmentation membranes can unfold into a variety of prescribed shapes and fragmentation warhead curvatures including concave convex ellipsoidal and or spherical configurations as may occur.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a flexible warhead which can be used for a bunker defeat mechanism.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a warhead having a polysterene membrane embedded with tungsten alloy fragments used to defeat a potential target.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a flexible warhead which can be folded into a shell such as a bunker defeat mechanism or full up round case and which flexible warhead can be expelled there from to engage a target.

It is a yet further object of the present invention to provide a flexible warhead with a maximal number of lethal fragments thereon the fragments having hinged joints to make the warhead more flexible and further the fragments are molded directly into said flexible warhead s perimeter.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here just for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

In a warhead is shown having an elastomeric essentially spheroidal configurated membrane which encloses for instance gel or liquid explosive and is detonated through a fuze which is permanently attached to membrane . The membrane material may be polysterene material. A plurality of tungsten alloy fragments are embedded in the perimeter of membrane . The fragments are present in the mold e.g. when membrane is manufactured. That is to say the fragments are molded right into the wall of the membrane perimeter. Nonetheless the manufacturing may not be perfect and a fragment or fragments may extend out slightly from the surface of the membrane making the membrane surface imperfect as to smoothness this however does not affect the operation of the warhead. The membrane perimeter also is still intact so that it can contain the amounts of gel or liquid explosive present there without any leaks. Ideally the fragments have hinge joints with respect to one another to be explained further here below. For an ordinary target the fuze might be a proximity type but in bunker defeat mechanism applications e.g. the fuze operation is usually based on a time delay. The time delay fuze would begin a countdown sequence upon an impact such as upon a first ground impact. The intention is that the warhead will then penetrate into the ground and be near the intended target perhaps inside a room of a below ground bunker and when the fixed time delay has been reached that the warhead will then detonate into the intended target. At that time the target will be attacked and shredded by the plurality of lethal fragments . shows how membrane can be prepared into a folded shape such as to install it into a launching case which case may be made of carbon composite material. Case may be a shell casing of a bunker defeat mechanism cartridge or of a full up round for example. A fuze is shown here positioned at the aft location of case behind the folded membrane. The case includes a means for expelling the folded membrane together with its fuze attached thereto. Means for expelling may include a propellant which can be ignited to initiate expulsion of the warhead from case . Immediately after expulsion folded membrane may unfold in flight into an initial shape such as shown in . The membrane is squeezed from behind by escaping propellant gases also pushed to an extent by moving fuze while retarded in its front regions by air resistance. These may account for the new shape . However as flight continues the membrane begins to assume the spheroidal shape of in due to air drag on the membrane tending to pull it out into the spheroidal shape . For extra clarity it should be understood that and are all the same membrane just in different states of being folded or unfolded or in flight. Various possible cross sectional shapes for the fragments are shown in such as planar fragments having triangular square pentagonal or hexagonal cross sectional shapes though other shapes are possible. Fragments could also have a rectangular cross sectional shape e.g. The lateral edges of fragments may also be cupped into either concave or convex shapes as shown in the side views of . The fragments could then be arranged so they are nested together with each fragment s convex shape edge mated into a concave shaped edge of an adjacent fragment. For rectangular cross sectional fragments e.g. this would be 2 convex shaped edges and 2 concave shaped edges on each fragment. This allows flexible movement of the membrane with its fragments as the membrane is folded or unfolded or is in flight as shown in and this is what was meant by the fragments being hinge jointed. Many other cross sectional shapes for the fragments are possible and ways to nest them together may be similarly applied.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

