---

title: Confirming an identity of a user of a social network
abstract: In cases where a user of a social network has lost access to one or more email addresses on file with the social network, the social network may confirm an identity of the user before issuing a new password. The social network may confirm the identity of the user by prompting the user to correctly identify pictures of members of the social network that are connected to the user, selecting or receiving a selection of a plurality of trustees (e.g., members of the social network who are connected to the user), prompting the trustees to confirm with the user that the user has lost the access, and receiving notification that at least a specified number of the trustees have confirmed with the user that the user has lost the access. After the social network confirms the identity, the social network may provide a new password to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621560&OS=09621560&RS=09621560
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09621560
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150130
---
A social network system is a computer or web based service that enables users to establish links or connections with persons for the purpose of sharing information with one another. Some social network systems aim to enable friends and family to communicate and share with one another while others are specifically directed to business users with a goal of establishing professional networks and sharing business information. For purposes of the present disclosure the terms social network and social network system are used in a broad sense and are meant to encompass services aimed at connecting friends and family often referred to simply as social networks as well as services that are specifically directed to enabling business people to connect and share business information also commonly referred to as social networks but sometimes referred to as business networks or professional networks .

In the following a detailed description of examples will be given with references to the drawings. It should be understood that various modifications to the examples may be made. In particular elements of one example may be combined and used in other examples to form new examples.

Many of the examples described herein are provided in the context of a social or business networking website or service. However the applicability of the inventive subject matter is not limited to a social or business network system. The present inventive subject matter is generally applicable to a wide range of information services.

A social network system is a service provided by one or more computer systems accessible over a network that allows members of the service to build or reflect social networks or social relations among members. Typically members construct profiles which may include personal information such as the member s name contact information employment information photographs personal messages status information multimedia links to web related content blogs and so on. In order to build or reflect these social networks or social relations among members the social network system allows members to identify and establish links or connections with other members. For instance in the context of a business network system a type of social network system a person may establish a link or connection with his or her business contacts including work colleagues clients customers personal contacts and so on. With a social network system a person may establish links or connections with his or her friends family or business contacts. While a social network system and a business network system may be generally described in terms of typical use cases e.g. for personal and business networking respectively it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that a business network system may be used for personal purposes e.g. connecting with friends classmates former classmates and the like as well as or instead of business networking purposes and a social network system may likewise be used for business networking purposes as well as or in place of social networking purposes. A connection may be formed using an invitation process in which one member invites a second member to form a link. The second member then has the option of accepting or declining the invitation.

In general a connection or link represents or is otherwise associated with an information access privilege such that a first person who has established a connection with a second person is via the establishment of that connection authorizing the second person to view or access certain non publicly available portions of their profiles that may include communications they have authored. Example communications may include blog posts messages wall postings or the like. Depending on the particular implementation of the business social network system the nature and type of the information that may be shared as well as the granularity with which the access privileges may be defined to protect certain types of data may vary greatly.

Some social network systems may offer a subscription or following process to create a connection instead of or in addition to the invitation process. A subscription or following model is where one member follows another member without the need for mutual agreement. Typically in this model the follower is notified of public messages and other communications posted by the member that is followed. An example social network system that follows this model is Twitter which is a micro blogging service that allows members to follow other members without explicit permissions. Other connection based social network systems also may allow following type relationships as well. For example the social network system LinkedIn allows members to follow particular companies.

A user may set up an account with the social network. In some examples when the account is being set up the social network may ask the user for information that may be used to contact the user such as one or more email addresses. Once the account is set up the user may access the account using a username and password. The one or more email addresses are retained on file in the social network and may be changed or updated as needed by the user.

In instances when a user forgets the password the user may request a new password from the social network. Typically in response to a password change request the social network may send the user password updating information via email to the one or more email addresses on file at the social network.

Unfortunately there may be instances when the user no longer has access to the one or more email addresses on file at the social network. For instance an email address on file may be for a previous job held by the user or may be for a closed email account. For cases where the user forgets the password and no longer has access to the one or more email addresses on file at the social network the user may have significant difficulty accessing the account on the social network. This condition may be referred to as No Access to Primary Email address NAPE .

When confronting NAPE a user may turn to the customer service features on the social network. In many cases the customer service features involved with resetting a password for a user with NAPE are non automated and as a result may be tedious and labor intensive. For instance in order to reset a password for a user a social network may require proof of a user s identity. In some examples such proof may include submission of a scan or photo of a photo ID as well as a utility bill that shows the same address as the photo ID. For the user this process may be burdensome and may raise concerns about privacy when sending a scan or photo of a photo ID. This is but one example other non automated examples may also be burdensome for the user and labor intensive for the social network.

For purposes of the present disclosure the term member is intended to specify a person who has an account on the social network. For purposes of the present disclosure the term user is intended to specify the member who has lost access to the one or more email addresses on file with the social network.

Disclosed in some examples are systems methods and machine readable media for an automated process for confirming an identity of a user of a social network who has lost access to one or more email addresses on file with the social network. In response to a password change request submission the system may first verify that the entity submitting the password change request is a human rather than a robot. For instance the system may show to the user pictures of members connected to the user and prompt the user to identify names of the shown members. After the system has verified that a person is submitting the password change request the system may select or receive a selection of trustees. The trustees may be members of the social network who are connected to the user. These trustees may but need not be the members whose pictures are shown to the user. The system may prompt the trustees to confirm with the user that the user has lost access to the one or more email addresses on file with the social network. In some examples the system may direct the trustees to confirm using other communications outside the social network such as telephone or texts. In some examples the social network may deliver a code to each trustee and direct the trustee to provide the code to the user. The user may enter the codes received from the trustees into the social network and thereby demonstrate that the trustees have contacted the user. When the social network receives notification that at least a specified number of the trustees have confirmed with the user the social network may change the password of the account for the user.

Users of computing devices and may include one or more members prospective members or other users of the social network system . Computing devices and communicate with social network system through a network . The network may be any means of enabling the social network system to communicate data with computing devices . Example networks may be or include portions of one or more of the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN wireless network such as a wireless network based upon an IEEE 802.11 family of standards a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a cellular network or the like.

Computing device may be a laptop desktop tablet cellphone or any other computing device which may provide a social networking application in conjunction with browser . Social networking application may be one or more of hypertext markup language HTML javaScript Java or other browser executable objects that are executed within the browser to provide social networking functionality to a user. The social networking application may be deployed to the computing device by content server process through interaction with browser .

Computing device may be a laptop desktop tablet cellphone or any other computing device which may provide a social networking functionality to the user through execution of a social networking application . Social networking application may include a graphical user interface GUI module which may provide a graphical user interface output to a display which may show social networking information. Input and output module may accept input and process it in order to update the graphical user interface provided by the GUI module . Input and output module may interface with the social network system through the content server process using one or more application programming interfaces APIs . For example input and output module may receive data related to the social network system e.g. member profile information GUI information and other data by interfacing through one or more application programming interfaces APIs .

Both social networking applications and may provide social networking functionality to users in conjunction with content server process and in some examples in conjunction with storage . Social networking functionality may include viewing editing or deleting information in member profiles communicating with other members adding or removing skills and the like.

The social network system may include various modules connected to the content server module and storage which may prompt a user or member and receive input from the user or member. In response to a password change request from a user who has lost access to one or more email addresses on file with the social network the modules may confirm an identity of the user.

A human identification module may confirm that the entity who submitted the password change request is a human rather than a robot or other non human entity. In some examples the human identification module may include a graphical user interface that prompts the user to respond to text and or images displayed on the graphical user interface in a manner that would be apparent to the user who is a human but would befuddle a robot or non human entity. For instance the human identification module may prompt the user to correctly identify pictures of members of the social network that are connected to the user. In some examples the human identification module may prompt the user to respond in a manner that would be suitable for a human not necessarily the user but not suitable for a robot or non human entity. For instance the human identification module may display a picture on the graphical user interface and prompt the user to enter one or more alphanumeric characters embedded in the picture. These are but two examples for the human identification module other suitable examples may also be used.

A trustee selection module may determine trustees. The trustees may be members of the social network who are connected to the user. In some examples the trustee selection module may include a graphical user interface that prompts the user to select the trustees. For instance the graphical user interface may display names and or pictures of the user s connections and may allow the user to choose the trustees from the displayed names and or pictures. In some examples the graphical user interface may advise the user to select trustees that have a good relationship to the user so that the trustee may easily contact the user outside the social network such as by telephone or text. In other examples the trustee selection module may select the trustees from the user s connections without requesting input from the user.

The trustee selection module may determine the trustees after the user submits the password change request rather than requiring the user to select trustees at an earlier time such as when the user opens the user s account. Requiring the trustee selection when registering the account may be time consuming and may dissuade a person from completing the registration process. In addition at the time of account creation the user isn t connected to any other members making trustee selection problematic. In addition as a user s relationships with the user s connections evolve trustees selected too long ago may not have stayed in touch with the user and may not be able to contact the user outside the social network such as by telephone or text.

A trustee prompt module may prompt the trustees to confirm with the user that the user has lost access to the user s one or more email addresses on file with the social network. For instance the trustee selection module may notify each trustee such as by an internal notification within the social network or an external email sent to an email address on file for the trustee. In some examples the trustee notification may include a statement that the user has lost access to the user s email address and is requesting a password change and instructions on how to respond. In some examples the instructions may include a clickable link that provides a code to the trustee. In some examples the instructions may direct the trustee to contact the user outside the social network such as by telephone or text to confirm that the user really did lose access to the user s email address. In some examples the instructions may direct the trustee to provide the code to the user. In some examples the instructions may direct the trustee to contact the user confirm with the user that the user really did lose access to the user s email address then confirm with the social network that the user really did lose access to the user s email address.

A confirmation module may receive a notification that at least a specified number of the trustees have confirmed with the user that the user has lost access to the user s one or more email addresses on file with the social network. In some examples the confirmation module may include a graphical user interface that prompts the user to enter codes supplied by the trustees. In some examples the confirmation module may include a graphical user interface that prompts a trustee for confirmation that the user really did lose access to the user s email address. The specified number may be a specified fraction of the total number of trustees such as 60 80 or 100 . The specified fraction may be high enough to generate a meaningful sample of trustees responses but low enough to accommodate uncooperative trustees. If the confirmation module receives notification from at least the specified number of trustees the confirmation module may direct the social network to change the user s password.

At operation a password change request is received from the user. For instance the user may click on a link in a graphical user interface provided by the social network. The link may include text that indicates that the user has lost access to the one or more email addresses on file with the social network such as Forgot Password or Forgot Password and Lost Access To Email 

Operation confirms that the user is a human rather than a robot or automated entity on the internet. In some examples the user is prompted to correctly identify pictures of members of the social network that are connected to the user. In some examples operation may display pictures of faces of people connected to the user on a graphical user interface and may prompt the user to enter the first names of the displayed people into the graphical user interface. The displayed pictures may be profile pictures of the user s connections pictures in which the user s connections are tagged or other suitable pictures. In these examples the user may find it easier to remember just the first names rather than both first and last names. The graphical user interface may limit the name entry to within a specified time limit such as one minute. It is expected that the time limit may prevent an automated entity from searching through the social network or searching another social network or the internet to find the first names of the displayed people. In some examples the graphical user interface may allow passage of the user to subsequent operations only if the user correctly identifies a specified number of the displayed pictures or a specified percentage of the displayed pictures such as four out of five or 80 . If the user fails to correctly identify at least the specified percentage the graphical user interface may repeat operation a specified number of times such as one or two. Limiting the number of attempts to the specified number may discourage imposters and may therefore enhance security for the social network. Two specific examples for operation are shown in and are discussed in detail below.

At operation a plurality of trustees is determined. The trustees may be members of the social network who are connected to the user. In some examples the at least one computer processor may receive the selection of the trustees from the user. For instance the graphical user interface may allow the user to select the trustees from a list of names and or pictures of members connected to the user. In some examples the graphical user interface may allow the user to select the trustees after receiving a password change request from the user and then after prompting the user to correctly identify the pictures of members of the social network that are connected to the user. In other examples the social network may perform the selection of the trustees. In some examples there may be two three four five six or more than six trustees in the plurality.

At operation the trustees are prompted to confirm with the user that the user has lost access to the one or more email addresses on file with the social network. In some examples the trustees may be instructed to perform the confirmation outside the social network such as by telephone or text. A specific example for operation is shown in and is discussed in detail below.

At operation the at least one computer processor receives notification that at least a specified number of the trustees have confirmed with the user that the user has lost the access. In some examples the specified number is one two three four five or more than five. In some examples the specified number is expressed as a percentage of the total number of trustees such as 40 50 60 70 80 or more than 80 . If the specified number or fraction is equaled or exceeded the method may proceed to operation where the social network may change the password for the user. If the specified number or fraction is not equaled or exceeded the method may prevent the social network from changing the password for the user.

At operation the at least one computer processor may select a plurality of members of the social network that are connected to the user. In some examples the at least one computer processor may select the plurality of members to include members connected to the user who have most recently interacted with the user through the social network. In some examples the at least one computer processor may select a specified number of members such as two three four five six or more than six for the plurality.

At operation the at least one computer processor may display to the user on a graphical user interface pictures of faces of the members in the plurality. The plurality may include two three four five six or more than six members.

At operation the at least one computer processor may display to the user on the graphical user interface names of the members in the plurality. In some examples the names may be displayed in a different order from the pictures.

At operation the at least one computer processor may receive from the user on the graphical user interface associations between the names and the pictures. For instance the graphical user interface may prompt the user to match names from a list to pictures from another list. In some examples the graphical user interface may limit the input of the associations to within a specified time window such as 30 seconds or one minute. Other suitable time windows may also be used.

At operation the at least one computer processor may determine that at least a specified number of the associations correctly match the names to the pictures. The specified number of associations may be two three four five or more than five or may be expressed in terms of a fraction of the displayed pictures.

At operation the at least one computer processor may select a plurality of members of the social network that are connected to the user. In some examples the at least one computer processor may select the plurality of members to include members connected to the user who have most recently interacted with the user through the social network.

At operation the at least one computer processor may display to the user on a graphical user interface pictures of the members in the plurality.

At operation the at least one computer processor may receive from the user on the graphical user interface entry of names corresponding to the pictures. In some examples the graphical user interface may limit the entry of the names to within a specified time window such as 30 seconds or one minute.

At operation the at least one computer processor may determine that at least a specified number of the names are correctly associated with the pictures.

At operation at least one computer processor may provide through a graphical user interface a code to the trustee. In some examples the at least one computer processor randomly generates the codes. In some examples the at least one computer processor generates the code to be a randomly generated word a randomly generated number and or a randomly generated alphanumeric string. In some examples the codes are unique among the trustees.

At operation at least one computer processor may provide through the graphical user interface instructions to the trustee to communicate the code to the user outside the social network. For example the graphical user interface may instruct the trustee to contact the user by telephone or text and may request that the trustee provide the code to the user by telephone or text. In some examples the user may enter the codes into the social network at operation . For instance operation may include receiving from the user through a graphical user interface at least a specified number of the codes communicated from the trustees. These codes may be entered directly from the trustees to the social network or may be communicated from the trustees to the user and entered by the user to the social network.

Examples as described herein may include or may operate on logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules are tangible entities e.g. hardware capable of performing specified operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In an example circuits may be arranged e.g. internally or with respect to external entities such as other circuits in a specified manner as a module. In an example the whole or part of one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware processors may be configured by firmware or software e.g. instructions an application portion or an application as a module that operates to perform specified operations. In an example the software may reside on a machine readable medium. In an example the software when executed by the underlying hardware of the module causes the hardware to perform the specified operations.

Accordingly the term module is understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed specifically configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily e.g. transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a specified manner or to perform part or all of any operation described herein. Considering examples in which modules are temporarily configured each of the modules need not be instantiated at any one moment in time. For example where the modules comprise a general purpose hardware processor configured using software the general purpose hardware processor may be configured as respective different modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a hardware processor for example to constitute a particular module at one instance of time and to constitute a different module at a different instance of time.

Machine e.g. computer system may include a hardware processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a hardware processor core or any combination thereof a main memory and a static memory some or all of which may communicate with each other via an interlink e.g. bus . The machine may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In an example the display unit input device and UI navigation device may be a touch screen display. The machine may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system GPS sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor. The machine may include an output controller such as a serial e.g. universal serial bus USB parallel or other wired or wireless e.g. infrared IR near field communication NFC etc. connection to communicate or control one or more peripheral devices e.g. a printer card reader etc. .

The storage device may include a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures or instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the techniques or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within static memory or within the hardware processor during execution thereof by the machine . In an example one or any combination of the hardware processor the main memory the static memory or the storage device may constitute machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated as a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers configured to store the one or more instructions .

The term machine readable medium may include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the techniques of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. Non limiting machine readable medium examples may include solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media may include non volatile memory such as semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks Random Access Memory RAM Solid State Drives SSD and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. In some examples machine readable media may include non transitory machine readable media. In some examples machine readable media may include machine readable media that is not a transitory propagating signal.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device . The machine may communicate with one or more other machines utilizing any one of a number of transfer protocols e.g. frame relay internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP etc. . Example communication networks may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a packet data network e.g. the Internet mobile telephone networks e.g. cellular networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 family of standards known as Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 family of standards known as WiMax IEEE 802.15.4 family of standards a Long Term Evolution LTE family of standards a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS family of standards peer to peer P2P networks among others. In an example the network interface device may include one or more physical jacks e.g. Ethernet coaxial or phone jacks or one or more antennas to connect to the communications network . In an example the network interface device may include a plurality of antennas to wirelessly communicate using at least one of single input multiple output SIMO multiple input multiple output MIMO or multiple input single output MISO techniques. In some examples the network interface device may wirelessly communicate using Multiple User MIMO techniques.

