---

title: User-configurable indication device for use with an on-demand transport service
abstract: A system and method for configuring an indication device is described. An on-demand service system arranges a transport service for a user to be provided by a driver. The system determines whether the user has specified an output configuration for an indication device in an account of the user. In response to determining that the user has specified an output configuration for the indication device, the system identifies data corresponding to the output configuration and transmits the data to a driver device of the driver to enable the driver device to control the indication device of the driver based on the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536271&OS=09536271&RS=09536271
owner: Uber Technologies, Inc.
number: 09536271
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150123
---
This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 994 722 filed May 16 2014 titled USER CONFIGURABLE INDICATION DEVICE FOR USE WITH AN ON DEMAND SERVICE the aforementioned application being incorporated by reference in its entirety.

An on demand service system can arrange for an on demand service to be provided for a requesting user by a service provider. In some examples the on demand service system can provide information relevant to the requesting user to the service provider for purposes of assisting the service provider in performing the on demand service.

Examples described herein provide for a system that can automatically configure an indication device or a display device for use with an on demand service. As referred to herein an indication device is a device that is capable of providing illumination displaying content and or outputting audio and that can be positioned or fastened for example on or within a vehicle operated by a service provider e.g. a transport service provider a delivery provider etc. . Such an indication device can be positioned to be easily visible to a user or positioned proximate to a particular entry or door of the vehicle to indicate to the user where to enter. The system can use information specified or configured by a user of an on demand service to cause the indication device to dynamically adjust the output for a predefined duration of time. Examples of features that can be configured by a user include a color s a pattern s an illumination sequence s text visual content video and or audio. In this manner when the service provider approaches a user for purposes of providing the on demand service the indication device can be dynamically configured and personalized in a manner specified and recognizable by the user thereby informing the user which vehicle has been assigned to the user to provide the on demand service.

According to some examples a transport personalization system can be a part of or be in communication with the on demand service system. In one example the on demand service system can arrange a transport service for a user by receiving a request for transport from the user s device selecting a driver from a plurality of available drivers to perform the transport service for that user sending an invitation to the selected driver s device and receiving an acceptance of the invitation by the selected driver. The on demand service system can associate an identifier of the user and an identifier of the driver with an entry for that transport service. Once the on demand service system arranges the transport service for the user and the driver the transport personalization system can access a user database to determine whether that user has specified an output configuration for an indication device e.g. determine whether the user has personalized at least one aspect of the transport service . For example the transport personalization system can determine if the user has specified an output configuration in the user s account. If the user has specified an output configuration the transport personalization system can identify data corresponding to the output configuration and transmit the data to the driver device of the driver that is to provide the transport service for the user. In the case where the driver is in possession of and uses an indication device the data can enable the driver device to control the indication device using the data such as during at least a duration of the transport service e.g. while the transport service is in progress for that user . In such an example once the transport service is completed for the user the driver device can be instructed or caused to no longer control the indication device using the user s output configuration.

As described herein the output configuration for an indication device can specify the manner in which the indication device is to output or emit light or content. Depending on implementation the output configuration can specify one or more colors of light to be outputted by the indication device one or more patterns in which light is to be outputted by the indication device and or one or more sequences of illumination in which light is to be outputted by the indication device so that different portions of the indication device can be illuminated at different times. A user can access the user s account via a portal on the user s computing device such as through use of a webpage or a designated client service application in communication with the on demand service system and or the transport personalization system in order to configure the output configuration.

Still further in some examples the on demand service system and or the transport personalization system collectively referred to herein as the system can monitor the transport service to determine the state of the transport service. In some examples the transport service can be in progress for a user from the time the selected driver accepts an invitation to perform the transport service or from the time the selected driver begins to travel from a position in which the selected driver accepted the invitation until the transport service has been completed by the driver e.g. the driver has dropped off the user at the user s destination . The system can monitor the transport service using information received from the driver device e.g. periodically or intermittently from driver user input such as from a driver service application operating on the driver device and or information about the transport service e.g. the pickup location and or the destination location specified by the user . Depending on implementation the system can transmit the data corresponding to the output configuration to the driver device during the progress of the transport service but before the driver arrives at the pickup location specified by the user in the user s request for the transport service.

In some variations the indication device also referred to herein as a lighting or illumination device can have different housing shapes or features to be fixed to a vehicle. For example an indication device can include a body a power source or power input port to receive power from a power source a communication interface and a base. Depending on implementation the body can be formed of a translucent semi transparent or transparent material that can be at least partially illuminated by a light source. As an addition or an alternative the body can include or be formed as a display device that can output content e.g. a flat panel display . In either examples the body can be shaped to have at least one surface that is substantially flat and can have dimensions in which its length is substantially larger e.g. two or more times larger than both its height and its width and or its height is substantially larger e.g. two or more times larger than its width e.g. the body can be in the shape of a blade . The body can provide illumination and or output content that is customized based on the user specified output configuration information.

The body can also be coupled to a base that extends at least partially along the length of the body. The base can include one or more fastening mechanisms or structures to enable the indication device to be coupled or fastened e.g. either permanently or temporarily to a vehicle. In one example the base can also house one or more components of the indication device such as a communication interface a light source a power source or a port for the power source a light or display controller wires or connection components etc. The communication interface can enable the indication device to communicate e.g. wirelessly or via a wire or cable with the driver device to receive configuration data.

In another example the indication device can have a body that has a length a width and a height with its length being substantially greater e.g. two or more times larger than its width and its height but its width being greater than its height. The body can have a first fa ade or surface that extends along the length and the width of the body. The body can also house one or more light sources to illuminate at least a portion of the first fa ade. The indication device can include a base that is coupled to the body and that extends along at least a portion of the length of the body and at least a portion of the width of the body. The indication device can also include one or more fastening mechanisms to enable the illumination device to adhere to a surface such that the first fa ade of the body faces the surface. Such a surface can be an interior surface of a window of a vehicle or a windshield. The indication device can communicate with the driver s device using a communication interface e.g. wireless and or a wire cable so that the controller device can receive data from the driver s device in order to control the one or more light sources. In this manner when the driver s device receives the data corresponding to a user s output configuration the driver s device can provide control signals to the indication device to control the manner in which the indication device outputs or emits light.

As used herein a client device a driver device and or a computing device refer to devices corresponding to desktop computers cellular devices or smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs laptop computers tablet devices television IP Television etc. that can provide network connectivity and processing resources for communicating with a notification system and or a dispatch system over a network. A driver device can also correspond to other devices of a transit object such as an in vehicle computing system or custom hardware etc. The client device and or the driver device can also each operate a designated service application that is configured to communicate with the on demand service system and or the transport personalization system. Still further while some examples described herein relate to transport services the systems describe herein can be used to provide other on demand services such as a food truck service a delivery service an entertainment service etc.

One or more examples described herein provide that methods techniques and actions performed by a computing device are performed programmatically or as a computer implemented method. Programmatically as used herein means through the use of code or computer executable instructions. These instructions can be stored in one or more memory resources of the computing device. A programmatically performed step may or may not be automatic.

One or more examples described herein can be implemented using programmatic modules engines or components. A programmatic module engine or component can include a program a sub routine a portion of a program or a software component or a hardware component capable of performing one or more stated tasks or functions. As used herein a module or component can exist on a hardware component independently of other modules or components. Alternatively a module or component can be a shared element or process of other modules programs or machines.

Some examples described herein can generally require the use of computing devices including processing and memory resources. Examples described herein may be implemented in whole or in part on computing devices such as servers desktop computers cellular or smartphones personal digital assistants e.g. PDAs laptop computers printers network equipments e.g. routers and tablet devices. Memory processing and network resources may all be used in connection with the establishment use or performance of any example described herein including with the performance of any method or with the implementation of any system .

Furthermore one or more examples described herein may be implemented through the use of instructions that are executable by one or more processors. These instructions may be carried on a computer readable medium. Machines shown or described with figures below provide examples of processing resources and computer readable mediums on which instructions for implementing examples can be carried and or executed. In particular the numerous machines shown with examples include processor s and various forms of memory for holding data and instructions. Examples of computer readable mediums include permanent memory storage devices such as hard drives on personal computers or servers. Other examples of computer storage mediums include portable storage units such as CD or DVD units flash memory such as carried on smartphones multifunctional devices or tablets and magnetic memory. Computers terminals network enabled devices e.g. mobile devices such as cell phones are all examples of machines and devices that utilize processors memory and instructions stored on computer readable mediums. Additionally examples may be implemented in the form of computer programs or a computer usable carrier medium capable of carrying such a program.

In one example the system can include a personalization management a client device interface a driver device interface and a client database . The system can be a part of or communicate with an on demand service system and or can include other components or databases such as a configuration database which are not illustrated in for purpose of simplicity. The components of the system can combine to enable a user that requests an on demand service to configure an indication device operated by a service provider e.g. a lighting device for use with the on demand service e.g. before or after requesting the on demand service . Logic can be implemented with various applications e.g. software and or with firmware or hardware of a computer system that implements the system .

Depending on implementation one or more components of the system can be implemented on a computing device such as a server laptop PC etc. or on multiple computing devices that can communicate with the client devices and the driver devices over one or more networks. In some examples a computing device can operate or execute an application to perform one or more of the processes described by the various components of the system . The system can also be implemented through other computer systems in alternative architectures e.g. peer to peer networks etc. .

The system can communicate over one or more networks via a network interface e.g. wirelessly or using a wire with the client devices e.g. mobile computing devices operated by clients or users customers and the driver devices e.g. mobile computing devices operated by drivers using a client device interface and a driver device interface respectively. The client and driver device interfaces can enable and manage communications between the system and each of the client and driver devices . In some examples each of the client devices and the driver devices can individually operate a designated service application respectively that interfaces with the respective device interfaces to communicate with system . According to some examples the applications can include or use an application programming interface API such as an externally facing API to communicate data with the device interfaces . The externally facing API can provide access to system via secure access channels over the network through any number of methods such as web based forms programmatic access via restful APIs Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP remote procedure call RPC scripting access etc.

As described herein the system can be a part of or communicate with an on demand service system such as a dispatch system of the on demand service system not shown in . Examples of an on demand service can include a transport service a food truck service a delivery service a traveling entertainment service etc. A dispatch system for a transport service for example can receive requests from users operating client devices and arrange for transport services to be provided to the users by service providers e.g. drivers . The driver devices can provide current or real time information about the drivers to the dispatch system and or the system and based at least in part on the driver information the dispatch system can determine the pricing for the transport service in a given geographic region can select a driver for a requesting user can determine if the transport service has been successfully completed etc. In addition when a transport service is arranged for a user the system can receive transport information about the transport service from the on demand service system and determine whether to transmit user specified configuration data to the driver device of the driver selected to provide the transport service. The configuration data can enable the driver device to control the driver s indication device for the user.

As illustrated in a driver device can be in communication with an indication device . A driver of a vehicle that operates the driver device for example can be in possession of the indication device which can be fixed or fastened e.g. permanently or temporarily to the vehicle. The indication device can include a communication interface that enables the indication device to connect to the driver device wirelessly and or using a wire s or cable s . For example the driver device can wirelessly communicate with the indication device using a Bluetooth protocol. As an addition or an alternative the indication device can be in communication with system to be controlled by operations of the system e.g. over one or more networks or via the driver device . The indication device can include an output device such as an illumination mechanism or a display that can output or emit light or display content based on user specified configurations.

According to some examples the personalization management can receive the transport information of the arranged transport service from the dispatch system when the transport service is arranged for a user and a driver. The transport information can include i an identifier ID corresponding to the arranged transport service ii an identifier of the user and or the client device receiving the transport service iii an identifier of the driver and or the driver device providing the transport service and or iv status information about the driver with respect to the transport service. Depending on implementation the personalization management can receive the transport information in response to the transport service being initially arranged by the dispatch system. The personalization management can determine when and whether to transmit configuration information specified by the user for an indication device to the driver. The personalization management can also receive the status information of the driver e.g. periodically or in response to changes to the driver s status information during a duration from when the transport service is arranged until completion of the transport service.

When the personalization management receives the transport information the personalization management can use the user ID to access the client database . The client database can store a plurality of client profiles or client accounts for each user that has an account with the on demand service system. A client profile can include or be associated with a user identifier contact information payment billing information device and or the service application information e.g. version information user preferences historical information about previous transport services provided for the user etc. The user preferences can be configured by the user and can include indication or sign preferences such as color text pattern illumination sequence media content etc. related to the output of an indication device.

The personalization management can perform a lookup of the client profile e.g. using the user s ID or user s device ID and determine if the user has specified an output configuration for an indication device. If the user has specified e.g. in the user preferences the output configuration the personalization management can determine and or retrieve the configuration data corresponding to the specified configuration for that user. In one example the personalization management can receive information about the output configuration from the client profile and retrieve the configuration data from a configuration database. On the other hand if the personalization management determines that the user has not specified an output configuration the personalization management can transmit a message or a prompt e.g. an in application message displayed by the service application or a text message to the user s client device informing the user that the user can configure one or more indication preferences. If the user operates the service application and provides indication preferences the personalization management can receive the user s preferences and store the preferences with the user s profile in the client database . If the user does not provide indication preferences however the personalization management can store or maintain default indication preferences in the user s profile . In some examples the personalization management can perform these steps after the transport service has been arranged but before the driver has arrived at the pick up location and or before the driver has initiated the transport service.

The personalization management can transmit the user s configuration data corresponding to the user s indication preferences or default configuration data if the user has not specified indication preferences to the driver device . For example the personalization management can determine the driver that is to provide the transport service by identifying the driver s ID from the transport information . Depending on implementation if there is no configuration data for indication preferences specified by the user the personalization management can transmit default configuration data to the driver device or transmit a message without sending default configuration data indicating to the driver s service application operating on the driver device that the driver s own configuration data or default configuration data is to be used for controlling the indication device .

The driver device can run the service application for purposes of communicating with the on demand service system and or the system . For example the driver can operate the service application when the driver is ready or available to provide transport services. The service application can also enable the driver device to communicate with the indication device using the communication interfaces of the driver device and the indication device . In one example the driver device and the indication device can communicate with each other using a Bluetooth protocol or using another short range wireless technology protocol. In another example the driver device and the indication device can communicate with each other over a wire or cable. The service application can receive the configuration data from the system and control the indication device using the configuration data via one or more control signals over the communication interfaces of the driver device and the indication device . In one example the indication device can include a device controller that provides control signals to the light source or display of the indication device based on the configuration data .

The service application can also receive invitations for transport services from the on demand service system and provide location information and or status information of the driver to the on demand service system. The service application can interface with components of the driver device such as the global positioning system GPS component of the driver device to determine a current position or location of the driver device . In one example after and before the driver accepts the invitation to provide the transport service for the user via interaction with the service application the driver device can periodically transmit GPS location data points to the on demand service system and or the system .

According to an example the on demand service system can determine different states of the transport service or the driver by using information received from the service application . As referred to herein a state of the transport service or a state of the driver can refer to the current condition of the driver when providing transport service. A driver can be in one of a plurality of different states that include for example i unavailable e.g. off duty ii available e.g. on duty but not yet providing transport service iii en route to the pickup location of the user after accepting an invitation for transport service iv arriving at the pickup location e.g. the driver is approaching the pickup location v on trip e.g. the user has entered the vehicle the transport service has begun or vi completed trip e.g. the driver has completed the transport service by dropping off the user at the user s destination location . The state information used by the on demand service system to keep track of the driver determine whether it can select the driver for a transport service determine how long and how far the driver has driven the user for purposes of determining the fare etc. Depending on examples the driver operating the driver device and in possession of the indication device can indicate what state the driver is currently in by providing input to the service application e.g. input that the driver has accepted the invitation that the driver is approaching the user that the driver has completed the transport service etc. . The service application can provide state information to the on demand service system.

In another example the on demand service system can use location information from the driver s device and or the transport information to automatically determine the driver s state or the state of the transport service. For example the on demand service system can determine that the driver is en route to the pickup location in response to receiving the acceptance of the invitation from the driver device and or in response to determining that the driver has changed positions from GPS data of the driver device since the acceptance. In another example the on demand service system can programmatically determine that the driver is arriving at the pickup location or has reached the pickup location by comparing the location data of the driver with the specified pickup location of the user e.g. if the driver s position is within a predetermined distance of the user s current location or the pickup location . Still further similarly the on demand service system can programmatically determine that the driver has completed the transport service by comparing the location data of the driver with the specified destination location of the user if provided. Accordingly in variations the on demand service system can provide the state information to the service application and or the service application can provide the state information to the on demand service system. In this manner in either examples the service application and the system can recognize the state of the transport service or the driver.

According to some examples based on the state of the transport service or the driver the system and or the service application can control the operation of the indication device . As described herein the system can provide the configuration data for the particular user to the selected driver s device for use during the specific transport service. In this manner when that driver completes the transport service he or she can receive another invitation for transport service for another user and receive if any the configuration data for the other user during the progress of another transport service. During the progress of the transport service the service application can use the state information to control the indication device to output different colors content patterns etc. based on the state of the transport service or the driver. In other words based on the indicated state e.g. arriving now or on trip the service application can tailor the output of the indication device .

For example the configuration data of the user preference can specify that a blue color to be outputted by the indication device . When the driver accepts a transport request and is en route to the pick up location of the user for the transport service the service application can cause the indication device to output a default color or be turned off to conserve power because the user will not yet see the vehicle or the indication device . At a time when the driver is approaching the pickup location the driver can input on the service application that the driver is close to the user s pickup location or the service application and or the on demand service system can determine that the driver s current location is within a predetermined distance of the pickup location of the user. The state of the transport service can correspond to the driver arriving now. When the service application determines that the transport service is to change states from en route to arriving now for example the service application can trigger or control the indication device to output the user s specified color e.g. blue and or other preferred output content patterns or sequences so that the user can see which vehicle is approaching and will provide the service for the user. The service application can also control the indication device to output the user s specified display output preferences in a specific configuration that is based on the transport state.

As an addition or an alternative the system can receive information about the transport state from the service application and the personalization management can use the configuration data of the user preference to control the indication device based on the transport state e.g. as opposed to the service application controlling the indication device . For example the indication device can include network resources to be in communication with system over one or more networks and or via the driver device . In such an example the system can control the output of the indication device without input provided by the driver operating the driver device .

In this manner by enabling the user to provide user specified preferences for the indication device the system can provide the user with a personalized on demand service experience. In addition in some situations such as during darkness or when the user is at a crowded street corner or area e.g. an airport and waiting for the vehicle the personalized experience can indicate to the user which vehicle is the user s vehicle for purposes of the transport service. The indication device can show the user s specified color content pattern etc. so that in a group of vehicles the user can easily determine which vehicle to enter. Still further the indication device can also display or include features such as a trademark or name associated with the on demand service provider thereby providing brand recognition for the on demand service provider.

As an addition or an alternative the indication device can also include other components or sensors such as a GPS receiver and or an inertial measurement unit INU . These components or sensors can be used to periodically determine real time conditions of the vehicle while the indication device is powered on and in operation. The indication device can provide to the driver device via one or more communication interfaces data determined from the components or sensors referred to herein as indication device information . The service application can store the indication device information in a memory resource and or concurrently provide the indication device information to the on demand service system and or the system . The indication device information can be used by the on demand service system to complement or supplement data corresponding to a transport service or to determine with higher accuracy the bearing the movement the direction of movement etc. of the driver s vehicle before after or during transport service .

In some examples the body can be shaped to have an overall length L that is substantially greater than the overall height H and the overall width W see . In addition in one example the height can also be substantially greater than the width so that the body is in the shape of a blade. For example the overall length can be three four or five etc. times greater than the overall height while the overall height is three four or five etc. times greater than the overall width. In this manner the body can have a surface that extends along the length and height thereby providing a large surface area that can be at least partially illuminated.

In the examples described in a light source s can be provided or arranged within the body along the edge of the body and or within the base to illuminate the body in a lighting or output configuration indicated by a user. For example a light source or plurality of lights sources such as an LED strip can be provided underneath the body along a bottom edge of the body not shown in but within the base . The LED strip can be controlled based on the output configuration data to illuminate in a specific manner thereby providing lighting on the body and or along the edge or perimeter of the body e.g. edge lighting . The body can have a textured perimeter along its edge in order to enhance the edge lighting. In another example light sources can be provided along the edge of the body to provide edge lighting.

Referring to another example indication device is illustrated in which the body can include additional features for purposes of visually enhancing light configurations for a particular user. In one example the body can include an overlaying film having a particular shape or design corresponding to an icon or trademark of the on demand service provider. The overlaying film can be positioned on a surface of the body and can be formed of a material to cause light to be outputted for example in a more prominent fashion in the region of the film . In this manner when the light source s of the indication device is controlled based on the output configuration the body can illuminate both the edge perimeter of the body and the overlaying film prominently.

Another example of the indication device is illustrated in in which the body is unitarily formed or manufactured to include a gap or recessed portion. The gap can also be formed to have a shape of an icon or trademark of the on demand service provider. When the indication device is illuminated for example edge lighting can be provided along the perimeter of the body including the perimeter along the gap . As another example a separate lighting device and or material can also be inserted in the gap for purposes of enhancing illumination similar to for example but instead of a film the separate lighting device and or material can be shaped to fit inside the gap .

Another benefit for shaping the body to have the exemplary dimensions is to reduce the amount of material e.g. plastic glass etc. necessary for manufacturing the indication device while maintaining a large surface area for purposes of maximizing lighting. Still further reducing the overall size and weight of the indication device can enable a service provider to easily and quickly fasten or remove the indication device from the vehicle e.g. the driver can do it by himself or herself . This can be important as a driver can quickly fasten the indication device to the roof of his vehicle for example when the driver is electing to go on duty e.g. be available to provide transport services and similarly quickly remove the indication device when the driver will go off duty.

Referring back to a cross sectional view of an exemplary indication device illustrates the body being inserted and held by a base . The body can be inserted fastened removed etc. from the base . The base includes a fastening component in which the base can be fastened to a roof for example of a vehicle. The base can be configured to maintain the body in a specific position or orientation e.g. the body is maintained at a fixed angle relative to the roof of the vehicle .

In another example in a cross sectional view of an exemplary indication device illustrates the body being able to pivot relative to the roof of the vehicle. In this example the base can include a locking mechanism such as a locking set screw s to allow the body to be pivoted in either direction relative to the base and or the fastening component . The locking mechanism can enable the indication device to be configured on a case by case basis so that a driver who operates one type of vehicle and has a roof with a different surface shape than another type of vehicle can adjust the angle of the body .

In one example the indication device can be illuminated in a default color e.g. white while the driver is providing transport or driving to pick up a user e.g. the indication device is in a neutral state . When the driver indicates arriving now the indication device can fade to the user s specified color e.g. the indication device is in the arrival state . In addition from this instance in time as the driver waits for the user to enter the vehicle the illumination can pulse or periodically fade in and fade out between the user s specified color and the default color e.g. slowly transition from white to yellow for 2 seconds maintain the yellow color for 0.5 seconds and then transition back to white for 2 seconds etc. . While the driver waits he or she has not indicated that the transport service has yet begun. During this time the indication device can provide pulsating or transitioning illumination as discussed e.g. the indication device is in the transition state . After the user enters the vehicle the indication device can be illuminated back to the default color or maintained in the user s specified color e.g. the indication device is in a transport state . When the transport service is completed and the driver arrives at the user s destination the driver can indicate on his or her device trip ended and the indication device can again perform a transitioning illumination operation or output the user s specified color for a duration of time as the user exits such as 10 seconds e.g. the indication device is in a goodbye state . In this manner the indication device can provide the user with a personalized experience that gives the user the appearance of a transport service that is specifically tailored for that user.

Referring to the indication device can have an overall length L an overall width W and an overall height H with the length being significantly greater than the width and the height and the width being greater than the height. The indication device can include a base and a body which has a length that is shorter than the overall length L but has a width and a height that is similar to the overall width W and the overall height H as the indication device . The body can include a fa ade or surface that extends along the length and the width of the body . This fa ade or surface can be composed of material that enables a light source s included in the body and or the base to illuminate at least a portion of the fa ade . For example the fa ade can include or be composed of a diffusion film or a diffusion mask and can be held in place by a gasket that makes up at least a portion of a perimeter or housing of the body . Depending on implementation the fa ade can also have different patterns or textures to enhance the illumination when light is emitted by the indication device .

The base of the indication device can be shaped to extend along at least a portion of the length of the body and at least a portion of the width of the body . In one example the base can have a greater length and or width than the body such as illustrated in . The indication device can also include one or more fastening mechanisms to enable the indication device to adhere or fasten to a surface so that the fa ade faces the surface when the indication device is attached to that surface. For example in a first fastening mechanism can be coupled to a first end portion of the base that extends further out lengthwise than the body and can be positioned adjacent to a first end portion of the body while a second fastening mechanism can be coupled to a second end portion of the base that also extends further out lengthwise than the body and be positioned adjacent to a second end portion of the body . The fastening mechanisms can include adhesives on their surfaces e.g. tape suction cups sticky material for adhesion to glass hook and loop fasteners etc. to enable the indication device to adhere to a surface such as an inner surface of a windshield of a vehicle such as illustrated in . By enabling the indication device to be positioned in such a manner light can be emitted or outputted from the fa ade in the direction toward the windshield .

Each of the fastening mechanisms can also include an attachment mechanism s to couple to respective first end and second end portions of the base see . The attachment mechanisms such as clasps male female mating mechanisms and or magnets etc. can enable the fastening mechanisms to detach from the base . In such an example the driver can first attach the indication device to a surface of a window using the fastening mechanisms such as illustrated in . When the driver is no longer using the indication device and wants to put it away for example the driver can grab the handle which extends from a rear surface of the base to take off the indication device from the window. The two fastening mechanisms can remain adhered to the window while decoupling from the base so that the base and the body of the indication device can be removed from the window. In this manner the driver can easily and quickly attach and take off the indication device from the window at the same position. Still further in some examples only one fastening mechanism may be included in the indication device. In the examples illustrated in however having two fastening mechanisms can provide additional balance and stability for the indication device when mounted or adhered to a surface of a window.

In some examples at least one or more of the base the body or the fastening mechanisms can include or house one or more electrical components e.g. light source s device controller circuitry ports interfaces wires electrical contacts etc. . For example as illustrated in the fastening mechanism can include circuitry such as a power and or a data interface to receive power from a cable or to house a power source and or to receive data from the computing device such as a driver s device. The fastening mechanism can include a first power and or data connection e.g. a first set of contacts to mate with a second set of contacts of the base . In this manner the fastening mechanism can enable power and or data to be provided to the indication device when connected to the base e.g. when the base and the body are attached or mounted via the one or more fastening mechanisms to the surface of a window .

As an addition or an alternative different fastening mechanisms can be used to attach the indication device to a vehicle. For example in the indication device may not have the set of fastening mechanisms as described in but instead can have one or more fastening mechanisms that attach the indication device to a peripheral edge or surface of the interior of a vehicle so that the fa ade faces and is proximate to the inner surface of the windshield. Each fastening mechanisms can correspond to a set of magnets or a set of other coupling devices in which a first magnet or coupling device remains attached to the peripheral edge of the vehicle and a second corresponding magnet or coupling device is coupled to the base or the body of the indication device . In this manner when the indication device is properly attached to the peripheral edge of the vehicle the indication device can be positioned with respect to the inner surface of the windshield similar to the position of the indication device as illustrated in .

In another example referring to the fastening mechanism can be a hinge or multiple hinges that can attach to the peripheral edge or surface of the interior of a vehicle so that the fa ade faces and is proximate to the inner surface of the windshield. The fastening mechanism can enable the indication device to rotate about its length to be hidden from view when not in use e.g. rotate about its length so that the fa ade moves away from the inner surface of the windshield. In such examples of power and or data can be provided via the one or more fastening mechanisms or can be provided through a separate cable and or wireless interface.

The indication device can also be shaped in different ways depending on variations. For example the fa ade of the indication device can be substantially flat or can have a slight curve along its length such as illustrated in so that the indication device can be substantially flush to a vehicle s windshield which is also slightly curved when the indication device is mounted or adhered to the inner surface of the windshield. In another example the base and the body can be composed of material that is at least semi flexible e.g. flexible plastics rubber or rubber like materials etc. so as to enable the indication device to flex along its length width and or height.

Depending on implementation the indication device can have a variety of different light sources and or different arrangements for the light source s . In one example the indication device can be backlit using different light producing devices can include an array of light elements such as bulbs light emitting diodes LEDs light emitting electrochemical cells LECs and or can include a display device such as a touch sensitive display device a LED display an liquid crystal display LCD device etc. Based on power and or control signals received from a computing device such as the driver s device the indication device can be illuminated in a particular manner. In another example the indication device can be pre programmed to illuminate in a particular manner when the indication device is turned on without being connected to or without communicating with the driver s device or the transport personalization system of .

For example illustrate different illumination arrangements and or illumination sequences for an indication device such as described with respect to . The examples shown in depict the front surface or fa ade e.g. the fa ade of the indication device in with the fa ade facing outwards from the inside of a vehicle. In such examples the indication device can be positioned to abut or be proximate to the inner surface of a windshield such as near a lateral side of the passenger side of the interior of the vehicle. The arrows indicate in some examples the animation or sequence of illumination of the indication device. Such an animation or sequence of illumination can be caused by control signals from the driver s device via the output configuration specified by a user such as described in or can be pre programmed in a memory accessible by the device controller of the indication device . For example such illumination sequences can be displayed when the driver is approaching the pickup location of the user and or when the driver is waiting at the pickup location for the user to enter the vehicle. The illumination sequences can be repeated over and over until the indication device is turned off or until the state of the transport service or driver changes.

Referring to the fa ade of the indication device can include a printed pattern or design e.g. markings on the fa ade itself or can display portions of the design when the light source s is illuminated underneath the fa ade e.g. in the body . The design can enhance the manner in which the indication device is illuminated. In one example the animation or sequence of illumination can be in a direction going from the bottom of the device to the top of the device so that portions of the fa ade can be illuminated at different instances in time. In other implementations the fa ade can have or display other designs or no design.

In another example in the indication device can enable discrete portion s or segment s of the fa ade to be illuminated in a particular animation or sequence. In this example the direction of the illumination sequence can start by first illuminating the light source s in the middle area of the fa ade and then dynamically turning off those light source s and illuminating the light source s towards positioned above and below those light source s so that two portions of the fa ade are illuminated at different instances in time. Still further in the example of the indication device can be enabled to dynamically illuminate different portions of the fa ade by illuminating different light source s of an array and or controlling the brightness levels of the light source s .

Referring to the on demand service system can arrange for a transport service to be provided by a user . The user can provide a transport request using a designated service application on her device and the on demand service system can programmatically select a driver for that user. A transport personalization system that is a part of the on demand service system and or in communication with the on demand service system can determine that the transport has been arranged for the user and determine whether that user has specified an output configuration for an indication device . For example the transport personalization system can determine the arranged transport service information e.g. get the trip identifier determine a user ID for that user perform a lookup in a client user database for the user s profile using the user ID and determine whether the user has specified in the profile a particular output configuration for personalizing the transport.

If the user has specified an output configuration the transport personalization system can retrieve or determine the output configuration from the user s profile and provide data corresponding to the output configuration to the driver s device . For example the transport personalization system can determine the driver s identifier that is to provide the transport for the user from the arranged transport service information and identify the driver s device. If the user has not specified an output configuration on the other hand the transport personalization system can provide a message e.g. an in app message to the user s device prompting the user to provide an output configuration for the indication device .

The prompt can indicate to the user that the user may specify the output configuration if the user would like. The user can interact with the in app message e.g. that is displayed by the designated service application in order to access the different configuration s that can be selected by the user. If the user inputs the output configuration the transport personalization system can receive and determine the output configuration and store the output configuration with the user s profile for future use. The transport personalization system can then transmit the output configuration to the appropriate driver device .

If the user chooses not to input or select an output configuration the transport personalization system can determine that the default output configuration is to be used by the driver . In that case the transport personalization system can transmit the default output configuration to the driver device . As an alternative the transport personalization system does not transmit any output configuration to the driver device and the driver device automatically uses the default output configuration. The driver s device can use the output configuration to adjust the illumination and or display of the indication device for purposes of providing personalized transport services for the user e.g. by providing control signals from the driver s device to the indication device using a communication interface .

As an addition or an alternative the system and or the driver service application can determine the output configuration used to control the indication devices e.g. without user control or preference . For example the output configuration can be based on the current state of the transport service without taking into consideration user specified colors patterns or sequences of illumination. The driver service application can store the output configuration data with predetermined transport service driver status information so that the driver service application can control the indication device when it detects a certain state of the transport service or driver. In other examples where the system determines the state the system can transmit predetermined output configuration data to the driver device corresponding to the detected state in order to cause the driver s device to control the indication device accordingly.

Still further in some examples the indication device can include memory that store pre programmed data that controls the manner in which the indication device illuminates its fa ade or blade like surfaces. The indication device may receive state information from the driver device and the device controller of the indication device can control the illumination based on the received state information. In another example a connection between the indication device and the driver s device may not be necessary as the indication device can illuminate in a specified pre programmed manner when the indicating device is turned on such that the illumination is not based on user specified preferences or the state of the transport service .

In a service application running on a client device can provide a user interface to enable a user to update or modify the user s profile or account using the client device. The user can access the user s profile and make edits to the profile by interacting with the service application. In one example the user can adjust one or more preferences in the user s profile such as sign or output preferences for an indication device. The user interface can display a sign preference user interface in which the user can adjust one or more output configurations for an indication device. For example the user can adjust the color the text if any or if possible and or the pattern of the output configuration.

When the user selects the feature to adjust or select the color the user interface of can be displayed on the client device. The user interface can include a region showing the current color selected by the user and a selection bar in which the user can move the color indicator to select the color. The selection bar can display a spectrum of colors e.g. from red to orange to yellow to green to blue to violet etc. and anything in between from left to right for example and when the user moves the color indicator along the selection bar the selected color can dynamically change in the region . The user can select any color from a full RBG spectrum. Once the user accepts the color by selecting a accept feature on the user interface not illustrated in the user interface can be displayed again to the user. The selected color can be presented in the rectangular region of the feature showing the current selected color for the user. In addition the user s configured preferences for the output configuration can be stored with the user s profile or account so that the transport personalization system can access the user s specific configuration without prompting the user. The user does not have to provide configuration information again unless the user wants to make changes.

Although not illustrated in when the user opens or launches the service application on his or her client device at a later time the service application can also be tailored to the user s selected color. For example a welcome message in a badge graphic can be provided on the display in the selected color thereby providing the user with a full personalized experience from the initial launching of the application to the transport service itself. The user can edit or change the selected color at any time by accessing the user s profile from the client device or by logging in to the user s account from another device.

In one implementation the computer system includes processing resources a main memory a read only memory ROM a storage device and a communication interface . The computer system includes at least one processor for processing information and a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . The main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by the processor . The computer system may also include the ROM or other static storage device for storing static information and instructions for the processor . The storage device such as a solid state device a magnetic disk or an optical disk is provided for storing information and instructions. For example the storage device can correspond to a computer readable medium that stores sign output configuration instructions for performing operations discussed with respect to . In another example the storage device can store user and or profiles or accounts such as discussed with respect to . The processor can perform a search of a database of user profiles or accounts to determine whether a user has specified output configurations for controlling an indication device during the progress of a transport service such as described with .

The communication interface can enable the computer system to communicate with one or more networks e.g. cellular network through use of the network link wireless and or using a wire . Using the network link the computer system can communicate with a plurality of devices such as the mobile computing devices of the clients and service providers. According to some examples the computer system can receive configuration information from a client device when the user provides a selection or configures the output configuration for an indication device via the network link. The processor can associate the configuration information with the user s profile and store the configuration information in the storage device for example and provide the configuration information to the driver s device if a transport service is arranged for that user. If a transport service is arranged for the user and a driver the processor can identify the user s configuration information from memory for example and transmit the configuration information to the specific driver s device. The driver s device can use the configuration information to control the illumination or display of the indication device in possession of the driver.

The computer system can also include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT an LCD monitor or a television set for example for displaying graphics and information to a user. An input mechanism such as a keyboard that includes alphanumeric keys and other keys can be coupled to the computer system for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Other non limiting illustrative examples of input mechanisms include a mouse a trackball touch sensitive screen or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

Examples described herein are related to the use of the computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one example those techniques are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in the main memory such as the sign instructions . Such instructions may be read into the main memory from another machine readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative implementations hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement examples described herein. Thus the examples described are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The processor is configured with software and or other logic to perform one or more processes steps and other functions described with implementations such as described by and elsewhere in the application. The processor is configured with instructions and data stored in the memory resources to operate a service application as described in . For example instructions for operating the client service application when the mobile computing device corresponds to a client device or the driver service application when the mobile computing device corresponds to a driver device can be stored in the memory resources of the mobile computing device .

The processor can provide a variety of content to the display by executing instructions and or applications that are stored in the memory resources . One or more user interfaces can be provided by the processor such as a user interface for the service application. A user for example can operate a mobile computing device such as the mobile computing device to operate a client service application. The GPS component can determine location information such as the current location information of the computing device . The user can make a transport request using the location information as a pick up location for example and provide the transport request to the on demand service system via the communication sub systems . The user can also operate a user interface provided as part of the service application in order to input output configuration preferences of the user. The configuration information can be provided to the on demand service system and stored with the user s profile.

In another example for a driver device the memory resources can store data corresponding to the driver service application. The GPS component can determine location information such as the current location information of the computing device and the operation of the driver service application can cause the location information to be periodically determined and communicated to the on demand service system and or the transport personalization system via the communication sub systems . In addition for a driver device the driver service application can receive the configuration information for a user that the driver is to provide transports service for from the on demand service system and or the transport personalization system and based on the configuration information control an indication device not shown in that is connected e.g. via a wire or wirelessly with the mobile computing device . While is illustrated for a mobile computing device one or more examples may be implemented on other types of devices including full functional computers such as laptops and desktops e.g. PC .

The power source provides power to the components of the indication device . The power source can be an internal power source such as a battery and or an external power source e.g. provided by a power source of the vehicle of the driver in possession of the indication device or the driver s device . The light source can be one or more individual light sources an electroluminescence EL element s and or a display device as described with .

In some examples the indication device can receive control data via the communication interface from a wirelessly connected or connected via wire driver device not shown in . The control data can be provided by the driver device in order to control the illumination and or display of the indication device based on the user s specified output configuration information. For example the control data can cause the controller to illuminate the light source s in a particular color in a particular pattern and or operate the light source s in different states as described for example in . The indication device can also include other components not shown in such as one or more ports or contacts one or more sensors e.g. an INU a GPS receiver speakers one or more switches to turn on or off the indication device etc.

It is contemplated for examples described herein to extend to individual elements and concepts described herein independently of other concepts ideas or system as well as for examples to include combinations of elements recited anywhere in this application. Although examples are described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the concepts are not limited to those precise examples. Accordingly it is intended that the scope of the concepts be defined by the following claims and their equivalents. Furthermore it is contemplated that a particular feature described either individually or as part of an example can be combined with other individually described features or parts of other examples even if the other features and examples make no mentioned of the particular feature. Thus the absence of describing combinations should not preclude having rights to such combinations.

