---

title: Electronic device, method for controlling the electronic device, recording medium, and ear-jack terminal cap interworking with the electronic device
abstract: An electronic device, a method for controlling the electronic device, a recording medium, and an ear-jack terminal cap interworking with the electronic device are provided. The method includes determining whether an ear-jack terminal cap has been inserted into an ear-jack terminal provided in the electronic device, setting at least one function for a button of the ear-jack terminal cap, and performing the set at least one function, upon receipt of an input of the button of the ear-jack terminal cap.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09588594&OS=09588594&RS=09588594
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09588594
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150713
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Aug. 14 2014 and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0105836 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device a method for controlling the electronic device a recording medium and an ear jack terminal cap interworking with the electronic device.

Along with the rapid proliferation of electronic devices such as smart phones accessories mounted to a smart phone can include a hands free. For example an electronic device such as a smart phone can be configured with an earphone terminal that can be connected to a 4 way earphone. A user may then connect an earphone to the earphone terminal of the electronic device and hear voice of the other party during a call or multimedia sound played in the electronic device.

An electronic device can be provided with a hole shaped ear jack terminal. If a user does not use the ear jack terminal the user could use the electronic device with the ear jack terminal covered with an ear jack terminal cap to render the ear jack terminal waterproof and or dustproof.

In the above electronic device the ear jack terminal would be used for connection to an earphone. If the ear jack terminal is not connected to an earphone the ear jack terminal would be open. As a result dust or water may be introduced into the ear jack terminal thereby making the electronic device out of order.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure may address at least some of the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and may provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure may be to provide an electronic device for performing various user set functions s or operation s through an ear jack terminal cap.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure an ear jack terminal cap may be provided for waterproofness and or dustproofness as well as providing functions that may interwork with electronic devices having diverse functions to increase user convenience

Another aspect of the present disclosure may provide a method for controlling an electronic device that performs various user set functions s or operation s through an ear jack terminal cap

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure there may be provided a method for controlling an electronic device. The method includes determining whether an ear jack terminal cap is inserted into an ear jack terminal provided in the electronic device setting at least one function for a button of the ear jack terminal cap and performing the set at least one function upon receipt of an input of the button of the ear jack terminal cap

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure there may be provided a method for controlling an electronic device. The method includes determining whether an ear jack terminal cap is inserted into an ear jack terminal provided in the electronic device and performing a function corresponding to a specific gesture when a movement of the electronic device corresponds to the specific gesture if the ear jack terminal cap is inserted into the ear jack terminal.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure there may be provided an electronic device. The electronic device includes a processor and an ear jack terminal. The processor is configured to determine whether an ear jack terminal cap is inserted into the ear jack terminal to receive an input selecting at least one function controllable through the ear jack terminal cap if the ear jack terminal cap is inserted into the ear jack terminal and to control execution of the selected at least one function upon receipt of an input of a button of the ear jack terminal cap.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure there may be provided an electronic device. The electronic device includes a processor and an ear jack terminal. The processor is configured to determine whether an ear jack terminal cap is inserted into the ear jack terminal and to perform a function corresponding to a specific gesture when a movement of the electronic device corresponds to the specific gesture if the ear jack terminal cap is inserted into the ear jack terminal.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure there may be provided a computer readable recording medium storing instructions set to perform at least one operation by a processor. The at least one operation includes determining whether an ear jack terminal cap is inserted into an ear jack terminal provided in an electronic device displaying button types controllable through the ear jack terminal cap if the ear jack terminal cap is inserted into the ear jack terminal and receiving a selection of at least one of the displayed button types and upon receipt of a button input of the ear jack terminal cap performing a function corresponding to the selected at least one button type.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure there may be provided a computer readable recording medium storing instructions set to perform at least one operation by a processor. The at least one operation includes determining whether an ear jack terminal cap is inserted into an ear jack terminal provided in an electronic device and performing a function corresponding to a specific gesture if a movement of the electronic device corresponds to the specific gesture.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure there may be provided an ear jack terminal cap interworking with an electronic device. The ear jack terminal cap includes a fixing portion configured to be inserted into the electronic device and fixing the ear jack terminal cap inserted into the electronic device a button portion disposed at a top end of the fixing portion and configured to receive an input for executing a function corresponding to a button type set by a user and an ear jack insertion portion configured to be inserted into an ear jack terminal provided in the electronic device and electrically connected to the electronic device. The ear jack insertion portion includes a first resistor used for determining whether the ear jack terminal cap is inserted and a second resistor electrically connected to the button portion used for determining whether a button input is received. The second resistor is a fixed resistor.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided an ear jack terminal cap interworking with an electronic device. The ear jack terminal cap includes a fixing portion configured to be inserted into the electronic device and fixing the ear jack terminal cap inserted into the electronic device a rotation portion disposed at a top end of the fixing portion and configured to receive an input for executing a function corresponding to a button type set by a user and an ear jack insertion portion configured to be inserted into an ear jack terminal provided in the electronic device and electrically connected to the electronic device. The ear jack insertion portion includes a first resistor used for determining whether the ear jack terminal cap is inserted and a second resistor electrically connected to the button portion used for determining whether the input is received. The second resistor is a variable resistor.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are described with reference to the attached drawings. As the present disclosure allows for various changes and numerous embodiments particular embodiments will be illustrated in the drawings and described in detail. However the present disclosure is not limited to the specific embodiments and should be construed as including all the changes equivalents and or substitutions included in the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

As used in various embodiments of the present disclosure terms such as includes or may include refer to the presence of a disclosed corresponding function operation or component and do not limit the presence of one or more additional functions operations or components. Also terms such as includes or has refer to the presence of characteristics numbers steps operations components parts or combinations thereof and are not intended to exclude one or more additional characteristics numbers steps operations components parts or combinations thereof.

As used in various embodiments of the present disclosure the term or is used to include any and all combinations of terms listed. For example A or B includes only A only B or both A and B.

As used in various embodiments of the present disclosure terms such as first or second may be used to describe various components but do not limit such components. For example the terms do not limit the order and or the importance of their associated components. Such terms may be used to distinguish one component from another. For example a first User Equipment UE and a second UE are both UEs but are different UEs. For example without departing from the scope of the present disclosure a first component may be called a second component and likewise a second component may be called a first component.

If a component is said to be connected with or connected to another component the component may be directly connected with or connected to the other component or another component may exist in between. On the other hand if a component is said to be directly connected with or directly connected to another component it should be understood that no components exist in between.

Terms as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are used to describe the specific embodiments of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Singular terms are intended to include plural forms unless the context makes it clear that plural forms are not intended.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used in the present disclosure including technical or scientific terms have meanings that are understood generally by a person having ordinary skill in the art. Ordinary terms that may be defined in a dictionary should be understood to have the meaning consistent with their context and unless clearly defined in the present disclosure should not be interpreted to be excessively idealistic or formalistic.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device with communication capabilities. For example the electronic device may be at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e Book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a Netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical equipment a camera and a wearable device for example a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic Appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch .

According to some embodiments an electronic device may be a smart home appliance having communication functionality. The smart home appliance may be for example at least one of a Television TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washer an air purifier a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary a camcorder or an electronic picture frame.

According to some embodiments an electronic device may be a medical device for example a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device a Computed Tomography CT device an imaging device or a ultrasonic device a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an automotive infotainment device a naval electronic device for example a naval navigation device a gyroscope or a compass an avionic electronic device a security device an in vehicle head unit an industrial or consumer robot an Automatic Teller Machine ATM for a bank or a Point of Sales PoS device for a shop.

According to some embodiments an electronic device may be furniture part of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector or various measuring devices for example water electricity gas or electro magnetic wave measuring devices that include communication functionality. An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be any combination of the foregoing devices. In addition an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. It will be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art that an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the foregoing devices.

With reference to the attached drawings an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described below. The term used herein user may refer to a person that uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an Input Output I O interface a display a communication interface and an ear jack management module .

The bus may be a circuit that connects the foregoing components and provides communication for example a control message between the foregoing components.

The processor may for example receive instructions from other components for example the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface or the ear jack management module interpret the received instructions and execute computation or data processing according to the interpreted instructions.

The memory may for example store instructions or data that are received from or generated by other components for example the I O interface the display the communication interface or the ear jack management module . For example the memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application . Each of the foregoing programming modules may include software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two of software firmware or hardware.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory that are used in executing operations or functions implemented in other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Also the kernel may provide an interface for allowing the middleware the API or the application to access individual components of the electronic device .

The middleware may be a medium through which the kernel may communicate with the API or the application to transmit and receive data. Also the middleware may perform a control operation for example scheduling or load balancing in regard to work requests by one or more applications by for example assigning priorities for using system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to the one or more applications .

The API is an interface that may control functions that the application provides at the kernel or the middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function for example a command for file control window control video processing or text control.

According to various embodiments the application may include a Short Message Service SMS Media Messaging Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application that measures the amount of exercise or a blood sugar level or an environment information application for example an application that provides information about an air pressure a humidity level or a temperature . Alternatively or additionally the application may be related to information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example an electronic device . The information exchange related application may include for example a notification relay application for transmitting specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transmitting notification information generated from another application for example an SMS MMS application an email application a health care application or an environment information application to the external electronic device for example the electronic device . Alternatively or additionally the notification relay application may receive notification information from the external electronic device for example the electronic device and transmit the received notification information to a user. The device management application may manage for example install delete or update at least a part of functions of the external electronic device for example the electronic device communicating with the electronic device for example turn on turn off of the external electronic device or a part of its components or control of the brightness or resolution of the display an application executed in the external electronic device or a service for example a call service or a message service provided by the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments the application may include an application designated according to a property for example the type of the electronic device of the external electronic device for example the electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to music play. If the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application designated in the electronic device or an application received from another electronic device for example a server or the electronic device .

The I O interface may receive a command or data from a user through an I O device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the ear jack management module for example through the bus . For example the I O interface may provide data of a user touch received through the touch screen to the processor . Further the I O interface may for example output a command or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the ear jack management module through the bus to the I O device for example a speaker or a display . For example the I O interface may output voice data processed by the processor to a user through the speaker.

The display may display various types of information for example multimedia data or text data to the user.

The communication interface may provide communication between the electronic device and an external device for example the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network by wireless or wired communication and communicate with the external device over the network . The wireless communication may be conducted in conformance to for example at least one of Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro or Global System for Mobile communications GSM . The wired communication may be conducted in conformance to for example at least one of Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network may be a communication network for example at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel or the communication interface may support a protocol for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device.

The ear jack management module may be configured to perform for example an operation for determining whether an ear jack terminal cap has been inserted into an ear jack terminal of the electronic device an operation for when the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted into the ear jack terminal of the electronic device displaying button types controllable through the ear jack terminal cap and an operation for receiving a selection of at least one of the button types and upon receipt of a button input for the ear jack terminal cap executing a function corresponding to the selected button type.

Alternatively the ear jack management module may be configured to perform for example an operation for determining whether the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted into the ear jack terminal of the electronic device an operation for when the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted into the ear jack terminal of the electronic device determining whether the electronic device moves in correspondence to a specific gesture with a button provided on the ear jack terminal cap pressed and an operation for when the movement of the electronic device corresponds to the gesture executing a function corresponding to the gesture.

According to various embodiments a function s or operation s of the ear jack management module may be implemented by for example the processor . A detailed description will be given of the ear jack management module later.

The storage module may store information related to various elements for example a first resistor and a second resistor as will be described below with reference to of an ear jack terminal cap for example an ear jack terminal cap as will be described below with reference to . More specifically the storage module may store at least one of voltage value corresponding to at least one of resistance value of the first resistor for example an Analog to Digital Conversion ADC value corresponding to the resistance value of the first resistor to determine whether the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted and at least one of voltage value corresponding to at least one of resistance value of the second resistor for example an ADC value corresponding to the resistance value of the second resistor to determine whether a button input has been received. For reference an ADC value may be for example a digital value of a signal generated from the ear jack terminal cap connected to an ear jack terminal for example an ear jack terminal as will be described below with reference to . For example an ADC value may refer to a voltage signal corresponding to a microphone activation key button of a predetermined earphone not shown or a voltage signal corresponding to a volume up down key button. In addition to the ADC values the storage module may store various commands or data generated in the electronic device or the ear jack terminal cap.

The recognition module may be configured to recognize insertion of a predetermined plug into the ear jack terminal of the electronic device. If the plug is inserted into the ear jack terminal a jack interrupt occurs and thus the recognition module may determine whether the plug has been inserted into the ear jack terminal based on the generated jack interrupt. The plug may include various object s that can be inserted into the ear jack terminal including the ear jack terminal cap. The recognition module may include an input terminal DETECT IN for sensing insertion of the plug in order to determine whether the plug has been connected.

The decision module may be configured to determine whether the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted into the ear jack terminal of the electronic device that is whether the inserted plug is the ear jack terminal cap. In other words when the recognition module senses insertion of the plug into the ear jack terminal the decision module may determine whether the plug is the ear jack terminal cap based on an ADC value corresponding to a resistance value of the first resistor. For example if the ADC value corresponding to the resistance value of the first resistor is for example 1V upon sensing the ADC value for example 1V of the first resistor after insertion of the plug the decision module may determine that the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the decision module may be configured to determine whether the electronic device has moved in correspondence with a specific gesture with a button provided on the ear jack terminal cap pressed.

The I O module may be configured to transmit a command or data received from the user through an I O device for example a keypad or a touch screen to each component of the ear jack management module . If the I O module is implemented as for example a touch screen the I O module may be configured to display button types for example button types controllable by the ear jack terminal cap and receive a selection of at least one of the button types.

The storage module may be configured to store information about the selected button type. The execution module may be configured to execute a function s or operation s corresponding to the button type when the button is pressed. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the movement of the electronic device corresponds to the gesture the execution module may be configured to execute a function corresponding to the gesture.

The decision module may determine whether the button has been pressed. More specifically the decision module may determine whether the button has been pressed based on an ADC value corresponding to a composite resistance value of the first resistor and the second resistor for example the second resistor . The button provided on the ear jack terminal cap may be implemented in connection to a specific switch. The decision module may compare the ADC value corresponding to the composite resistance value with ADC values stored in the storage module and in the presence of a matching ADC value may determine that the button has been pressed.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the ear jack terminal cap may include a first resistor for determining whether the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted and a second resistor for determining input of the button.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure it may be determined whether the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted by comparing a voltage value corresponding to a resistance value of the first resistor with voltage values pre stored in the electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure it may be determined whether the button of the ear jack terminal cap has been input by measuring a voltage value applied to each of the first and second resistors according to a composite resistance value of the first and second resistors and comparing the voltage value applied to the second resistor with voltages pre stored in the electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure both the first and second resistors may be fixed resistors. Or the first resistor may be a fixed resistor and the second resistor may be a variable resistor.

Referring to an ear jack terminal cap according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be inserted into an ear jack terminal of an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Referring to an ear jack terminal cap according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include a button portion a fixing portion and the ear jack insertion portion

The button portion may be implemented as a control means for the electronic device for example an electronic device . More specifically when the button portion is pressed various functions s or operation s set by a user may be performed which will be described later.

The fixing portion may support the ear jack terminal cap so as to keep the ear jack terminal cap inserted into the electronic device.

The ear jack insertion portion may be inserted into the electronic device and thus electrically connected to the electronic device as illustrated in .

Referring to an ear jack terminal cap according to another embodiment of the present disclosure may include a rotation portion a fixing portion and the ear jack insertion portion

The rotation portion may perform a function or operation similar to that of the button portion . That is when the user applies an input to the rotation portion a functions s or operation s corresponding to the input may be performed. One thing to note herein is that the afore described second resistor may be configured as a variable resistor in the ear jack terminal cap according to this embodiment. The electronic device may perform a continuous control operation such as volume control by measuring a voltage variation applied to the second resistor according to a changed resistance value.

A description of the fixing portion and the ear jack insertion portion is pursuant to the description of the ear jack terminal cap and thus will not be provided herein.

For the convenience of description an ear jack insertion portion for example an ear jack insertion portion or of the ear jack terminal cap includes a 4 pole ear jack that is MIC M GND G RIGHT R and LEFT L by way of example. MIC M may be a channel for executing a function s or operation s related to an external microphone or button connected electrically to the 4 pole ear jack. GND G may be a channel for grounding. RIGHT R may be a right audio channel of an earphone including the 4 pole ear jack. LEFT L may be a left audio channel of the earphone including the 4 pole ear jack. The first and second resistors may be preferably shunt resistors.

The first resistor may be connected to the M . The second resistor may be connected to the first resistor in parallel. The button may be connected to a switch. The switch may be turned on off depending on whether the button has been pressed. If the switch turns on that is the button is pressed a processor of the electronic device may measure a composite resistance value of the first resistor and the second resistor

A storage module of the electronic device may pre store at least one of the ADC value corresponding to the measurement composite resistance value. A voltage value corresponding to a resistance value may mean a voltage value applied to a specific resistor according to a resistance value of the specific resistor. Further the storage module may pre store resistance value of the first and second resistors and . ADC value for example voltage value corresponding to the resistance value of the first resistor and the composite resistance value may be pre stored in the storage module . The processor may measure an ADC value corresponding to the resistance value of the first resistor and compare the measured ADC value with a pre stored ADC value. If the ADC values are equal or different within a predetermined range the processor may determine that the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted. The resistance value of the first resistor may be unique to the ear jack terminal cap . The first resistor may have different resistance values in ear jack terminal caps for example and according to different embodiments of the present disclosure.

An input module may be configured to receive setting information such as a user input for selecting a button type.

A sensor module may include various sensors such as a gyro sensor a gravity sensor and a proximity sensor. According to an embodiment the sensor module may not be provided.

A display module may be configured preferably as a touch screen and may be configured to display various types of information.

The other components illustrated in operate in the same manner as their counterparts illustrated in and thus will not be described in detail herein.

Referring to an ear jack terminal cap may be inserted into an electronic device and a user may select a button type in a notification window. Button types may refer to a function s or operation s that are executed when the user presses a button. The button type may include for example a home key a camera key an MP3 key and the like. The MP3 key is a key related to play of a sound file such as a music file. For example the MP3 key may play a music file and switch to a next music. The button types illustrated in are exemplary. Thus an Internet browsing key for example button pressing triggers an Internet browser a call key for example button pressing triggers call connection and the like other than the button types illustrated in may be included.

Referring to the user may select a home key as an intended button type . Upon sensing pressing of a button during display of a screen for example a chatting application screen other than a home screen a processor not shown may control switching to the home screen according to the user set home key as illustrated in .

Referring to compared to the embodiment illustrated in a user selects a button type by an ear jack application instead of a notification window. The user may select the ear jack application to select a button type . Upon selection of the ear jack application the processor not shown may control display of available button types as illustrated in .

In regard to the other part of the embodiment of it may be implemented in the same manner as the embodiment of and thus will not be described in detail herein.

Referring to an ear jack terminal cap according to another embodiment of the present disclosure may be inserted into an electronic device . Upon insertion of the ear jack terminal cap a processor not shown may control display of available button types as illustrated in . While illustrate only a volume key a screen switch key an incoming call accept reject key and a user setting key as available button types they are purely exemplary. Thus the button types may include an image viewer key for example upon right rotation of the ear jack terminal cap a next image is displayed and upon left rotation of the ear jack terminal cap a previous image is displayed during an operation of an image viewer application and a screen lock unlock key for example a screen is locked or unlocked according to a user preset pattern for example one right rotation after two left rotations .

Referring to in the case where a volume key has been selected as an intended button type upon rotation of a button during play of a music file the processor not shown may execute a volume control function or operation corresponding to the button rotation.

While illustrate an embodiment of selecting a button type in the notification window the button type may be selected by an application for example the ear jack application .

Referring to the electronic device for example the electronic device may recognize insertion of a plug into an ear jack terminal S . Then the electronic device may determine whether the plug is an ear jack terminal cap for example the ear jack terminal cap that is the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted S . If the electronic device determines that the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted the electronic device may display available button types S . Upon selection of at least one of the displayed button types the electronic device may store information about the selected at least one button type for example the home key in order to perform a function or operation corresponding to pressing or rotation of a button S . Upon receipt of an input of the button for example when the button is pressed or rotated S the electronic device may perform a function or operation corresponding to the selected button type S .

The foregoing description of an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is applied to the method for controlling an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure described above with reference to . Therefore a detailed description of the method for controlling an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will not be provided herein.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a sensor module having a gyro sensor and a gravity sensor as described before. While an ear jack terminal cap is inserted in the electronic device as illustrated in if a user moves the electronic device by a specific gesture for example a gesture shaped like C pressing the ear jack terminal cap as illustrated in a processor not shown may control execution of a function or operation corresponding to the gesture for example execution of a camera application . The function or operation corresponding to the gesture may be preset or set by a user as described before with reference to . The specific gesture may be preset or set by directly inputting a specific character by the user.

The sensor module for example the gyro sensor and the gravity sensor may sense the movement of the electronic device . The processor may determine whether the gesture associated with the movement of the electronic device sensed by the sensor module is a preset gesture or a user set gesture. If the gestures match the processor may control execution of a function or operation corresponding to the gesture for example execution of a camera application corresponding to C .

The gesture in the shape of C is purely exemplary for description of the present disclosure. Various characters may be set as gestures according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In addition the function or operation corresponding to the gesture execution of a camera application is given as an example for description of the present disclosure. Thus various functions or operations including play of an MP3 player and unlocking may be included in the functions or operations corresponding to the gesture.

Referring to the electronic device may recognize insertion of a plug into the ear jack terminal S . Then the electronic device may determine whether the plug is the ear jack terminal cap S . If the electronic device determines that the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted the electronic device may determine whether it is moved in correspondence with a specific gesture with the button of the ear jack terminal cap pressed S . If the electronic device determines that it is moved in correspondence with the specific gesture the electronic device may perform a function or operation corresponding to the specific gesture S .

Referring to an ear jack terminal cap according to another embodiment of the present disclosure may include a plurality of second resistors and corresponding to button inputs. While it has been described that the above described ear jack terminal cap for example the ear jack terminal cap according to an embodiment of the present disclosure allows for selection of a single button type only if a plurality of second resistors are provided as illustrated in a button type corresponding to each of the second resistors may be available to a user. For this purpose the ear jack terminal cap may include a plurality of buttons and corresponding to the second resistors and . Therefore a storage module may store ADC value corresponding to resistance value of the respective second resistors and . A home key may be set as a button type for the first button and a camera key may be set as a button type for the second button according to user inputs. Upon receipt of an input for the first button a processor may control execution of a function or operation corresponding to the home key . Upon receipt of an input for the second button the processor may control execution of a function or operation corresponding to the camera key .

The other part of the structures illustrated in may be pursuant to the description of and thus will not be further described herein.

An electronic device may be for example a whole or a part of the electronic device illustrated in . Referring to the electronic device may include one or more Application Processors APs a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may control one or more hardware or software components that are connected to the AP by executing an Operating System OS or an application program and may perform processing or computation of various types of data including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented for example as a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP may further include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module for example the communication interface may transmit and receive data in communication between the electronic device for example the electronic device and other electronic devices for example the electronic device or the server . According to an embodiment the communication module may include a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide services such as voice call video call SMS or the Internet via a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The cellular module may identify and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network using a SIM card for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least a part of the functionalities of the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of multimedia control functionality.

According to an embodiment the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . The cellular module may for example be implemented as an SoC. Although components such as the cellular module for example the CP the memory or the power management module are shown in as configured separately from the AP the AP may include or be integrated with one or more of the foregoing components for example the cellular module .

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module for example the CP may process instructions or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory or other components by loading the instructions or the data in a volatile memory. Also the AP or the cellular module may store at the non volatile memory at least one of data received from at least one of other components or data generated by at least one of the other components.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor that may process data received or transmitted by the respective modules. Although shows the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module as separate blocks any combination for example two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in an Integrated Chip IC or an IC package according to an embodiment. For example at least some of the processors corresponding to the respective cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may be implemented as a single SoC. For example a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module may be implemented as a single SoC.

The RF module may transmit and receive data for example RF signals. While not shown the RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amplifier Module PAM a frequency filter or a Low Noise Amplifier LNA . The RF module may further include one or more components for transmitting and receiving Electro Magnetic EM waves in free space such as conductors or conductive wires. Although shows that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share the single RF module at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may transmit and receive RF signals via a separate RF module according to an embodiment.

The SIM card may be a card including a SIM and may be configured to be inserted into a slot disposed at a specified location of the electronic device. The SIM card may include a unique identifier for example Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may be at least one of for example a volatile memory for example Dynamic RAM DRAM Static RAM SRAM or Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM or a non volatile memory for example One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM Programmable ROM PROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory or NOR flash memory .

According to an embodiment the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may be for example a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF drive a Secure Digital SD a micro Secure Digital micro SD a mini Secure Digital mini SD an extreme Digital xD or a Memory Stick . The external memory may be operatively coupled to the electronic device via various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include recording devices or recording media such as a Hard Disk Drive HDD .

The sensor module may measure physical properties or detect operational states associated with the electronic device and convert the measured or detected information into electric signals. The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an accelerometer E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example a Red Green Blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a luminosity sensor K or an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an electrical nose sensor not shown an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not shown an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not shown an InfraRed IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may detect a touch input using at least one of for example capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. A capacitive type touch panel may detect physical touch inputs or proximity inputs. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. Haptic feedback may be provided to the user using the tactile layer.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using methods identical to or similar to receiving a touch input from a user or using a separate detection sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device may be a device configured to identify data by detecting using a microphone for example a microphone ultrasonic signals generated by a device capable of generating the ultrasonic signal. The ultrasonic input device may detect data wirelessly. According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device for example a computer or a server connected to the electronic device using the communication module .

The display module for example the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED display. The panel may be configured to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be implemented as a single module. The hologram device may utilize the interference of light waves to provide a three dimensional image in empty space. The projector may provide an image by projecting light on a display. The display may be positioned for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D sub . The interface may be incorporated into for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface an SD MultiMedia Card or an Infrared Data Association IrDA interface.

The audio module may encode decode a voice into an electrical signal and vice versa. At least a part of components of the audio module may be incorporated in for example the I O interface illustrated in . The audio module may process audio information input into or output from for example a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone .

The camera module may capture still images or a video. According to an embodiment the camera module may include one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash for example a Light Emitting Diode LED or a Xenon lamp not shown .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . While not shown the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be disposed for example in an IC or an SoC semiconductor. The charging method for the electronic device may include wired or wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery or prevent excessive voltage or excessive current from a charger from entering the electronic device . According to an embodiment the charger IC may include at least one of a wired charger IC or a wireless charger IC. The wireless charger IC may be for example a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type or an electromagnetic wave type and may include additional circuits for wireless charging such as a coil loop a resonance circuit or a rectifier.

The battery gauge may measure for example a charge level a voltage while charging or temperature of the battery . The battery may store or generate electricity and supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may indicate one or more states for example boot status message status or charge status of the electronic device or a part of the electronic device for example the AP . The motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. While not shown the electronic device may include a device for supporting mobile TV for example a GPU . The device for supporting mobile TV may process media data compliant with for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of components of an electronic device described above according to the present disclosure may include one or more components and each component s name may vary according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described components and some may be omitted or additional components may be included. Also some of the components of the hardware according to the present disclosure may be combined into a single entity and perform functions identical to those of the respective components before their combination.

The term module as used herein may include its ordinary meaning including but not limited to for example a unit of one or a combination of two or more hardware software or firmware. The term module may be used interchangeably with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. A module may be the smallest unit for performing one or more functions or a portion thereof. A module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of a known or to be developed Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or programmable logic device that perform certain operations.

According to various embodiments at least a part of devices for example modules or their functions or methods for example operations according to the present disclosure may be implemented for example in the form of a programming module as commands stored in a computer readable storage medium. When a command is executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process to execute one or more functions.

The computer readable recording medium may include any kind of hardware device configured specially to store a program command for example a programming module . Examples of the hardware device may include magnetic media such as a hard disk floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk a ROM a RAM a flash memory and the like. The program command may include a premium language code that can be executed in a computer using an interpreter as well as a mechanical code produced by a compiler. The above mentioned hardware device may be implemented as one or more software modules to perform the operations of the present disclosure and vice versa.

A module or a programming module according to the present disclosure may include one or more of the above described components may omit a portion thereof or may include additional components. Operations that are performed by a module a programming module or other components according to the present disclosure may be processed in a serial parallel repetitive or heuristic manner and some operations may be omitted or additional operations may be added.

According to various embodiments a storage medium storing commands is provided. The commands are configured to allow at least one processor to perform at least one operation when the commands are executed by the at least one processor. In a computer readable storage medium including a command for controlling a display of an electronic device the at least one operation may include determining whether an ear jack terminal cap has been inserted into an ear jack terminal of the electronic device determining whether the electronic device moves in correspondence with a specific gesture with a button of the ear jack terminal cap pressed if the ear jack terminal cap has been inserted into the ear jack terminal and performing a function corresponding to the gesture if the movement of the electronic device corresponds to the gesture.

Alternatively the at least one operation may include determining whether an ear jack terminal cap has been inserted into an ear jack terminal provided in an electronic device and performing a function corresponding to a specific gesture if a movement of the electronic device corresponds to the specific gesture.

As is apparent from the foregoing description of the electronic device and method for controlling the same according to various embodiments of the present disclosure a user can control execution of a specific function s or operation s set by the user through an ear jack terminal cap interworking with the electronic device. Therefore user convenience in using the electronic device can be increased.

No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for .

While the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

