---

title: Multi-wire single-ended push-pull link with data symbol transition based clocking
abstract: System, methods and apparatus are described that facilitate transmission of data over a multi-wire data communications link, particularly between two devices within an electronic apparatus. A sequence of data bits is converted into M transition numbers, which are then converted into a sequence of symbols. The sequence of symbols is transmitted received over N wires. A clock signal may be effectively embedded in the transmission of the sequence of symbols. Each of the sequence of symbols may be selected based on a corresponding one of the M transition numbers and a value of a preceding one of the sequence of symbols.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444612&OS=09444612&RS=09444612
owner: 
number: 09444612
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150824
---
This application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 205 242 filed in the U.S. patent office on Mar. 11 2014 which claims priority to and the benefit of provisional patent application No. 61 793 955 filed in the U.S. patent office on Mar. 15 2013 the entire content of these applications being incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure pertains to transmitting and or encoding a clock signal within cycles of a multi signal data transfer.

Various standards have been promulgated for data transfer. In one example the Mobile Industry Processor Interface MIPI Alliance has defined a High speed Synchronous Serial Interface HSI Specification MIPI DPHY Low Power LP signaling for use in single ended signaling that employs for example a synchronous complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS push pull communication interface. Data transfer schemes often use a dedicated clock or strobe signal line to send cycle timing information from a transmitter device to a receiver device.

The use of a dedicated clock or strobe signal line requires using at least one additional conductor. For single rate signaling applications one data symbol per one full clock period clock high and clock low is sent. The maximum data rate is often limited by a maximum allowed frequency of the clock line of the system rather than maximum allowed frequency of the data line. The maximum data rate is also often limited by skew between clock and data that may be hard to control to be optimal.

Therefore an efficient way to embed a clock signal within a multi wire single ended signaling system is needed.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems methods and apparatus related to multi wire interfaces exchange clock information in a sequence of symbols transmitted over a plurality of wires.

In an aspect of the disclosure a method of multi wire signaling includes converting a sequence of data bits into a plurality of M transition numbers converting the M transition numbers into a sequence of symbols and transmitting the sequence of symbols over N wires using N single ended drivers. A clock signal may be effectively embedded in the transmission of the sequence of symbols. Each of the sequence of symbols may be selected based on a corresponding one of the M transition numbers and a value of a preceding one of the sequence of symbols.

In another aspect the conversion from the M transition numbers into a sequence of symbols guarantees that no two sequentially occurring symbols in the sequence of symbols are the same.

In another aspect converting the M transition numbers into a sequence of symbols includes for each of the M transition numbers determining an immediate predecessor symbol in the sequence of symbols and selecting as a next symbol in the sequence of symbols a symbol identified by using the each transition number as an offset from the immediate predecessor symbol.

In another aspect each symbol in the sequence of symbols is selected from a plurality of available symbols. Each of the plurality of available symbols may correspond to a signaling state of the N wires that is different from the signaling states that correspond to the other symbols in the plurality of available symbols. Each of the sequence of symbols may be associated with a number R of possible symbol transition states for each transition number. The sequence of symbols may be associated with a number R of possible signaling states associated with each symbol in the plurality of available symbols. The sequence of symbols may provide Rdifferent states. The Rdifferent states may determine a number of bits that can be encoded in the sequence of symbols.

In an aspect of the disclosure an apparatus includes means for converting a sequence of data bits into a plurality of M transition numbers means for converting the M transition numbers into a sequence of symbols and means for transmitting the sequence of symbols over N wires using N single ended drivers. A clock signal may be effectively embedded in the sequence of symbols. Each of the sequence of symbols may be selected based on a corresponding one of the M transition numbers and a value of a preceding one of the sequence of symbols.

In an aspect of the disclosure a transmitter includes a processing circuit configured to convert a sequence of data bits into a plurality of M transition numbers convert the M transition numbers into a sequence of symbols and transmit the sequence of symbols over N wires using N single ended drivers. A clock signal may be effectively embedded in the sequence of symbols. Each of the sequence of symbols is selected based on a corresponding one of the M transition numbers and a value of a preceding one of the sequence of symbols.

In an aspect of the disclosure a processor readable storage medium has one or more instructions stored thereon. The instructions when executed by at least one processing circuit cause the at least one processing circuit to convert a sequence of data bits into a plurality of M transition numbers convert the M transition numbers into a sequence of symbols and transmit the sequence of symbols over N wires using N single ended drivers. A clock signal may be effectively embedded in the transmission of the sequence of symbols. Each of the sequence of symbols may be selected based on a corresponding one of the M transition numbers and a value of a preceding one of the sequence of symbols.

In an aspect of the disclosure a method for performing multi wire signaling decoding includes receiving a sequence of symbols from a plurality of N wires using N receivers extracting a clock signal from the sequence of symbols converting the sequence of symbols to M transition numbers using the clock signal and converting the plurality of transition numbers into data bits. The clock signal may be extracted from clock information encoded in transitions between pairs of consecutive symbols in the sequence of symbols.

In another aspect each pair of consecutive symbols in the sequence of symbols may include two different symbols.

In another aspect converting the sequence of symbols to the M transition numbers includes using the clock to identify a transition in signaling state of the N wires and calculating a transition number based on a difference in a first symbol associated with a signaling state occurring before the identified transition and a second symbol associated with a signaling state occurring after the identified transition. Each possible signaling state of the N wires may correspond to a different one of a plurality of available symbols. The second symbol may correspond to one of a number R of possible signaling states.

In an aspect of the disclosure an apparatus includes means for receiving a sequence of symbols from a plurality of N wires using N receivers means for extracting a clock signal from the sequence of symbols means for converting the sequence of symbols to M transition numbers using the clock signal and means for converting the plurality of transition numbers into data bits. The clock signal may be extracted from clock information encoded in transitions between pairs of consecutive symbols in the sequence of symbols.

In an aspect of the disclosure a receiver includes a processing circuit configured to receive a sequence of symbols from a plurality of N wires using N receivers extract a clock signal from the reception of the sequence of symbols convert the sequence of symbols to M transition numbers using the clock signal and convert the plurality of transition numbers into data bits. The clock signal may be extracted from clock information encoded in transitions between pairs of consecutive symbols in the sequence of symbols.

In an aspect of the disclosure a processor readable storage medium has one or more instructions stored thereon. The instructions when executed by at least one processing circuit cause the at least one processing circuit to receive a sequence of symbols from over a plurality of N wires using N receivers extract a clock signal from the sequence of symbols convert the sequence of symbols to M transition numbers using the clock signal and convert the plurality of transition numbers into data bits. The clock signal may be extracted from clock information encoded in transitions between pairs of consecutive symbols in the sequence of symbols.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques may not be shown in detail in order not to obscure the embodiments.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Certain aspects of the invention may be applicable to communications links deployed between electronic devices that may include subcomponents of an apparatus such as a telephone a mobile computing device an appliance automobile electronics avionics systems etc. depicts an apparatus that may employ a communication link between IC devices. In one example the apparatus may include a wireless communication device that communicates through an RF transceiver with a radio access network RAN a core access network the Internet and or another network. The apparatus may include a communications transceiver operably coupled to processing circuit . The processing circuit may include one or more IC devices such as an application specific IC ASIC . The ASIC may include one or more processing devices logic circuits and so on. The processing circuit may include and or be coupled to processor readable storage such as a memory that may maintain instructions and data that may be executed by processing circuit . The processing circuit may be controlled by one or more of an operating system and an application programming interface API layer that supports and enables execution of software modules residing in storage media such as the memory device of the wireless device. The memory device may include read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory device that can be used in processing systems and computing platforms. The processing circuit may include or access a local database that can maintain operational parameters and other information used to configure and operate the apparatus . The local database may be implemented using one or more of a database module flash memory magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The processing circuit may also be operably coupled to external devices such as an antenna a display operator controls such as button and keypad among other components.

The communication link may include multiple channels and . One or more channels may be bidirectional and may operate in half duplex and or full duplex modes. One or more channels and may be unidirectional. The communication link may be asymmetrical providing higher bandwidth in one direction. In one example described herein a first communications channel may be referred to as a forward link while a second communications channel may be referred to as a reverse link . The first IC device may be designated as a host system or transmitter while the second IC device may be designated as a client system or receiver even if both IC devices and are configured to transmit and receive on the communications link . In one example the forward link may operate at a higher data rate when communicating data from a first IC device to a second IC device while the reverse link may operate at a lower data rate when communicating data from the second IC device to the first IC device .

The IC devices and may each have a processor or other processing and or computing circuit or device . In one example the first IC device may perform core functions of the apparatus including maintaining wireless communications through a wireless transceiver and an antenna while the second IC device may support a user interface that manages or operates a display controller . The first IC device or second IC device may control operations of a camera or video input device using a camera controller . Other features supported by one or more of the IC devices and may include a keyboard a voice recognition component and other input or output devices. The display controller may include circuits and software drivers that support displays such as a liquid crystal display LCD panel touch screen display indicators and so on. The storage media and may include transitory and or non transitory storage devices adapted to maintain instructions and data used by respective processors and and or other components of the IC devices and . Communication between each processor and its corresponding storage media and and other modules and circuits may be facilitated by one or more bus and respectively.

The reverse link may be operated in the same manner as the forward link and the forward link and reverse link may be capable of transmitting at comparable speeds or at different speeds where speed may be expressed as data transfer rate and or clocking rates. The forward and reverse data rates may be substantially the same or differ by orders of magnitude depending on the application. In some applications a single bidirectional link may support communications between the first IC device and the second IC device . The forward link and or reverse link may be configurable to operate in a bidirectional mode when for example the forward and reverse links and share the same physical connections and operate in a half duplex manner. In one example the communication link may be operated to communicate control command and other information between the first IC device and the second IC device in accordance with an industry or other standard.

In one example forward and reverse links and may be configured or adapted to support a wide video graphics array WVGA 80 frames per second LCD driver IC without a frame buffer delivering pixel data at 810 Mbps for display refresh. In another example forward and reverse links and may be configured or adapted to enable communications between with dynamic random access memory DRAM such as double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM . Encoding devices and or can encode multiple bits per clock transition and multiple sets of wires can be used to transmit and receive data from the SDRAM control signals address signals and so on.

The forward and reverse links and may comply or be compatible with application specific industry standards. In one example the MIPI standard defines physical layer interfaces between an application processor IC device and an IC device that supports the camera or display in a mobile device. The MIPI standard includes specifications that govern the operational characteristics of products that comply with MIPI specifications for mobile devices. The MIPI standard may define interfaces that employ complimentary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS parallel busses.

The communication link of may be implemented as a wired bus that includes a plurality of signal wires denoted as N wires . The N wires may be configured to carry data encoded in symbols where clock information is embedded in a sequence of the symbols transmitted over the plurality of wires.

Certain aspects disclosed herein relate to a device and method for embedding a clock signal within multi wire single ended systems. is a block diagram illustrating certain aspects of a multi wire single ended push pull communication link that may be configured to use transition based clocking. The example depicts a communication link that can transmit data over N signal wires .

In single ended signaling one wire conductor carries a varying voltage that represents the signal while another wire may be connected to a reference voltage such as a system ground voltage. A transmitting device may include one or more single ended push pull CMOS drivers each driver coupled to a single wire conductor . A receiving device may include one or more single ended CMOS receivers each single ended receiver coupled to a single wire conductor . The transmitting device includes an encoder that encodes input bits received by the transmitting device . The encoder encodes the input bits into single ended signals for transmission to the receiving device in N single ended signals through the single ended drivers over a corresponding N wires conductors . The receiving device receives the single ended signals from the N wires conductors through the single ended receivers . The receiving device includes a decoder that is configured to decode the N single ended signals and to provide output bits . In this single ended system the decoder may include a clock and data recovery CDR such that a clock signal is extracted from the N received single ended signals.

At the decoder of the receiving device the signal on the N wire communication link is received by the N CMOS receivers whose output is provided to the CDR circuit which may be adapted to recover the link clock RXCLK and to output valid current state data at every rising edge of RXCLK . The current state data may be provided to the S to T converter for conversion each of the symbol states e.g. S S S S S . . . into transition numbers e.g. T T T T T . . . . The transition numbers may be provided to an M T to Bits converter to restore the binary encoded bits .

The set reset register may receive the NE signal from the comparator and may be configured or controlled to produce a signal NEFLT signal that is a filtered version of the NE signal . The one shot logic is configured to produce a pulse see in its output signal NESHOT signal where the duration of the pulse is determined or substantially determined by the delay introduced by the first delay element . In one example the first delay element receives the NEFLT signal and produces a signal NEDEL that is a delayed version of the NEFLT signal . A logic element of the one shot logic gates the NEFLT signal with an inverted version of the NEDEL signal thereby producing the pulse in the NESHOT signal .

The second delay element may be configured to receive the NESHOT signal and produce a signal RXCLK signal that is a delayed instance of the NESHOT signal. As shown in the illustrated CDR circuit a reset input of the set reset register receives the RXCLK signal and consequently the set reset register may be reset by the pulse in the RXCLK signal . The register is enabled by the RXCLK signal and the pulse in the RXCLK may cause the register to capture the received SI signal as the S signal which is the registered instance of the SI signal . The register may be level triggered or edge triggered. As can be appreciated from the timing diagram the value of the delay P introduced by the first delay element provides improved margins for setup time between symbols and .

Initially at a time T signals SI and S hold the previous symbol value S and the NE signal the NEFLT signal and the RXCLK signal at the low logic level e.g. zero volts . When a new symbol value S is being received it causes the SI signal to start changing its value. The value of the SI signal may be different from the value of S valid data due to the occurrence of intermediate or indeterminate states during the signal transition from S S . The intermediate or indeterminate states may be caused for example by inter wire skew over under shoot cross talk etc.

The NE signal switches to a logic high level as soon as the comparator detects different value between the SI signal and the S signal . Upon becoming high the NE signal synchronously or asynchronously sets the set reset register output causing the NEFLT signal to become high after the tdelay . The NEFLT signal remains in the high state until the set reset register is reset by a high state of RXCLK signal . The RXCLK signal transitions high in response to rising of NEFLT signal after a delay period that is mostly attributable to the second delay element .

The intermediate states on the SI signal may be considered to represent invalid data and may contain a short period of the valid symbol value S causing the NE signal to transition back low for short periods of time that may be observed as spikes in the NE signal . The low state of the NE signal does not affect the NEFLT signal because the set reset register effectively filters out the spikes on the NE signal .

The one shot circuit generates a high state on the NESHOT signal after a delay t caused by the rising edge of the NEFLT signal . The one shot circuit holds the NESHOT signal at the high state for a delay period introduced by the first delay element before the NESHOT signal transitions to a low state. The resultant pulse on the NESHOT signal propagates to the RXCLK after a delay period that is mostly attributable to the second delay element .

The high state of RXCLK signal resets the set reset register causing its output the NEFLT signal to transition low after a delay t . The high state of RXCLK signal also enables the register causing the value of the SI signal to be output as the S signal .

The comparator detects when the S signal changes to match the symbol value of S on the SI signal and drives the NE signal low.

The low state of NESHOT signal propagates to the RXCLK signal after a delay period that is mostly attributable to the second delay element .

When a new symbol value S is being received the SI signal begins changing its value to the next symbol S after a delay t from the falling edge of the pulse in the RXCLK signal .

More specifically the symbol cycle time t must be greater than total of the S delay period the P delay period t t t and t. If the total of these six time periods exceeds the tperiod then the trailing edge of a pulse on the RXCLK signal overlaps the next symbol cycle preventing the NEFLT signal from being set for the overlapping period. Note that the amount of overlapping period accumulates cycle by cycle and eventually results in an extra pulse on the RXCLK signal in one symbol cycle.

The timing constraint for the setup time t may be characterized as follows Maximum skew specification 

In the second delay element an analog delay line may be implemented using a plurality of analog delay cells which may include buffers inverters and or logic gates for example. The analog delay line may be used to implement the first and second delay elements in communications links that are operated at a data rate that is fast in comparison to system clocks. A source signal is introduced to a delay line of analog delay cells . A multiplexer may be used to select one of the outputs of the analog delay cells to provide a delayed signal where the delay value may be programmed using a delay select signal to select a desired delay.

A synchronous set reset register may be used when the communication link operates at a data rate that is slow enough to allow use of the internal system clock . Here the internal system clock may be used to drive a register that captures the output of a multiplexing circuit having two multiplexers and . The Set input and Reset input control the selection of inputs to the multiplexers for their respective outputs. If both the Set input and the Reset input are low the prior output of the register is selected at an edge of the system clock . When the Set input is set to one a logic 1 is provided as the output at the edge of the system clock provided the Reset input is low. If the Reset input is high the output is cleared at the edge of the system clock . When the data rate of the communication link is high relative to the system clock an asynchronous set reset register may be used.

The synchronous registers and provide signals that are fully synchronous with the system clock . For the link whose data rate is fast an asynchronous latch may be used to sample the SI signal and an asynchronous set reset register may be used for generating the NEFLT signal.

In an example where the possible symbol transitions for each T R 10 and the number of symbols in a group M 3 each of the 3 transition symbols T T T can have the value T 0 1 2 . . . 9. Thus each transition symbol can have 10 different states and the transition symbol for each transition in T T T may be a 3 digit decimal number. In one example T 3 T 9 T 1 which may be expressed as the decimal number 391. In this manner a sequence of bits may be converted into a plurality of transition symbols and vice versa.

In the example of a 2 wire system where N 2 and M 12 it may be assumed the possible symbol transition for each transition R 2 1 2 1 3. If the number M of symbols in a group is 12 The sequence of symbols T T1 . . . T may be represented as a 12 digit ternary base 3 number where each T 0 1 2. For example for T T1 . . . T 2 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 2 1 the ternary number is 

In this manner 12 transitions numbers may be converted into a number. Note that the transition number 2100 1101 0121may be used as the transition number in so that each integer may be mapped to a sequential symbol and vice versa.

In one example for a 2 wire system 4 raw symbols are assigned to 4 sequential symbol numbers S S S and S . As illustrated by the symbol ordering diagram these symbols may be arranged in an ordering circle here in a clockwise sequence. A current symbol may be selected using the transition number value to indicate the number of steps on the ordering circle from the previous symbol to the current symbol. The table of illustrates this example of a transition number T that can represent the relative distance of or between the 4 sequential symbol numbers in the symbol ordering diagram . The value of the transition number T may be used to select a current symbol given a previous symbol .

For a transmitter the current sequential symbol number Cs may be determined based on a given transition number T as follows 0 3 Cs Ps assuming T is 2 bits wide and copies only the two least significant bits 2 LSB of T. For a receiver a symbol may be converted to a transition number T as follows 4 Cs Ps 3 0 assuming T is 2 bits wide and copies only the 2 LSB of T.

A similar approach may be used for other N wire systems by constructing a mapping of sequential symbol number to transition number table for any value of N including for example N 4 N 5 N 6 and so on. In this manner it can be guaranteed that the signaling state of at least one of the N wires is changed between each pair of sequential symbols.

In one example in the case of an N wire system the transition number T may be assigned according to Ps 1 Cs Cs Ps 1 Cs Ps 1 2.

Conversely in the case of an N wire system the current sequential symbol number Cs may be assigned according to Cs Ps 1 2 Ps 1 Ps 1 2.

It is contemplated that the formula used conversion between sequential symbols and transition may vary between signaling schemes for reasons of efficiency ease of implementation and so on. Thus for example a roll over mechanism is used in some CCIe systems where a three step difference between current and previous symbols causes a roll over in the transition number calculation. That is to say a 1 step difference results in a value of T 1 a two step difference results in a value of T 2 while the three step difference results in a value of T 0. In another N wire system where the difference diff between current and previous symbols can range between 1 and R the transition number may be calculated simply as T diff 1 and the transition number ranges between 0 and R 1.

Depending upon the number of wires or conductors used and the number of symbols or groups selected different utilization percentages may be achieved. In this regard utilization may refer to the efficiency with which a number of bits per group may be sent. In these example utilization may be represented as a percentage between an integer number of bits per group that are transmitted and a theoretical number of bits per group that may be transmitted for a given number of conductors and symbols per group.

Some systems may not use some states among all the available symbol states. For example for N 3 the state 111 may be reserved for other purposes. In the table in 1 state has been dumped and or reserved from a total of 8 symbol states. The available transition number is then 6 8 2 i.e. transitions to all states other than self and the reserved dumped state .

Some systems may not use certain states among all the available symbol states. For example for n 4 the state 1111 may be reserved for other purposes. In the table in 1 state has been dumped from a total of 16 symbol states. The available transition number is then 14 16 2 i.e. transitions to all states other than self and the reserved dumped state .

At step the M transition numbers is converted into a sequence of symbols. Each of the sequence of symbols may be selected based on a corresponding one of the M transition numbers and a value of a preceding one of the sequence of symbols. The conversion from the M transition numbers into the sequence of symbols may guarantee that no two sequentially occurring symbols in the sequence of symbols are the same.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein converting the M transition numbers into the sequence of symbols may include determining an immediate predecessor symbol in the sequence of symbols for each of the M transition numbers. Converting the M transition numbers into the sequence of symbols may include selecting as a next symbol in the sequence of symbols a symbol identified by using the each transition number as an offset from the immediate predecessor symbol for each of the M transition numbers.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein each symbol in the sequence of symbols may be selected from a plurality of available symbols. Each of the plurality of available symbols corresponds to a signaling state of the N wires that is different from the signaling states that correspond to the other symbols in the plurality of available symbols. Each of the sequence of symbols may be associated with a number R of possible symbol transition states for each transition number. The sequence of symbols may be associated with a number R of possible signaling states associated with each symbol in the plurality of available symbols. The sequence of symbols may provide Rdifferent states. The Rdifferent states may determine a number of bits that can be encoded in the sequence of symbols.

At step the sequence of symbols is transmitted over N wires using N single ended drivers. A clock signal may be effectively embedded in the transmission of the sequence of symbols.

The processor is responsible for general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable storage medium . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing circuit to perform the various functions described supra for any particular apparatus. The computer readable storage medium may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software including data decoded from symbols transmitted over the connectors or wires . The processing circuit further includes at least one of the modules and . The modules and may be software modules running in the processor resident stored in the computer readable storage medium one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof. The modules and or may include microcontroller instructions state machine configuration parameters or some combination thereof.

In one configuration the apparatus for wireless communication includes a module and or circuit configured to convert a sequence of data bits into a plurality of M transition numbers a module and or circuit configured to convert the M transition numbers into a sequence of symbols modules and or circuits configured to transmit the sequence of symbols over N wires using N single ended drivers.

At step a clock signal is extracted from the reception of the sequence of symbols. The clock signal may be extracted from clock information encoded in transitions between pairs of consecutive symbols in the sequence of symbols. Each pair of consecutive symbols in the sequence of symbols may have two different symbols.

At step the sequence of symbols is converted to M transition numbers using the clock signal. The sequence of symbols may be converted to the M transition numbers by using the clock to identify a transition in signaling state of the N wires and calculating a transition number based on a difference in a first symbol associated with a signaling state occurring before the identified transition and a second symbol associated with a signaling state occurring after the identified transition. The second symbol may correspond to one of a number R of possible signaling states.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein each possible signaling state of the N wires may correspond to a different one of a plurality of available symbols.

The processor is responsible for general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable storage medium . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing circuit to perform the various functions described supra for any particular apparatus. The computer readable storage medium may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software including data decoded from symbols transmitted over the connectors or wires . The processing circuit further includes at least one of the modules and . The modules and may be software modules running in the processor resident stored in the computer readable storage medium one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof. The modules and or may include microcontroller instructions state machine configuration parameters or some combination thereof.

In one configuration the apparatus for wireless communication includes modules and or circuits configured to receive a sequence of symbols from over a plurality of N wires using N receivers a module and or circuit configured to extract a clock signal from the reception of the sequence of symbols a module and or circuit configured to convert the sequence of symbols to M transition numbers using the clock signal and a module and or circuit configured to convert the plurality of transition numbers into data bits.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed as a means plus function unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for. 

