---

title: Assessing security risks associated with connected application clients
abstract: A method for assessing security risks associated with a cloud application to which one or more connected applications are coupled begins by configuring a security risk assessment application to function as a connected application. The security risk assessment application collects “first” data associated with one or more accounts, and “second” data associated with the one or more connected applications coupled to the cloud application. After receiving the first and second data, the security risk assessment application instantiates that data into a generic “data object” that the system uses to represent each account and each of the connected applications. Each such data object thus is populated either with the first data or the second data, depending on whether the data object represents an account or a connected application. A risk assessment is then applied to the generic data object to assess a security risk associated with the cloud application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591016&OS=09591016&RS=09591016
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09591016
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151120
---
This disclosure relates generally to the field of digital resource access and more particularly to assessing security exposures in cloud based computing environments.

Identity and Access Management Governance is a set of processes and policies for organizations to manage risks and maintain compliance with regulations and policies by administering securing and monitoring identities and their access to applications information and systems. Although potentially complex in implementation the concept of Identity and Access Management IAM Governance is fairly straightforward determine who should have access to what resources and who should not according to government regulations industry specific regulations SOX HIPPA GLBA etc. and business regulations and guidelines. Typically key aspects of IAM Governance include access request governance entitlement certifications reports and audits and analytics and intelligence including role management entitlement management separation of duties enforcement and privileged identity management . An end to end IAM Governance solution may also provide related functions such as access enforcement user provisioning password management and user lifecycle management.

Identity and access management IAM systems protect enterprise data and applications with context based access control security policy enforcement and business driven identity governance. These systems may be operated in a standalone manner in association with cloud based environments or in hybrid environments.

An emerging information technology IT delivery model is cloud computing by which shared resources software and information are provided over the Internet to computers and other devices on demand. When multiple parties share resources within a cloud computing and other such shared deployment model a compelling transformation and reduction in their IT costs from fixed to variable can be achieved. Using this approach companies can extend computing and storage capacity elastically to match demand shift operational and capital costs to an external data center free IT staff to focus on new projects and more. Cloud compute resources are typically housed in large server farms that run networked applications typically using a virtualized architecture wherein applications run inside virtual servers or so called virtual machines VMs that are mapped onto physical servers in a data center facility.

Many cloud applications such as Salesforce.com Office and others provide a way for administrators to allow other applications to access and manage the subject cloud application. An application of this type that has been granted access to a cloud application is known as a connected application. Typically the administrator can specify details about the access the connected application should be given such as access to read but not update data or perhaps access to create new users in the cloud application. If the administrator is not careful however he or she may accidentally give the connected application more access than he intends. Additionally at some point there may no longer be a valid business reason to continue to allow the connected application access to the cloud application. If an administrator does not take explicit action to terminate the other application s access it will continue to have access that the administrator no longer intends possibly exposing the cloud application to security risks e.g. unintended exposed data or unintended continued management .

Because these types of connected applications are not typically represented as accounts in the cloud application normal security controls often overlook them. For example reports related to privileges and dormancy often include only accounts but not connected applications. Additionally third party security products often focus on accounts to the exclusion of connected applications.

There remains a need to provide IAM systems with a way to assess security risks that are normally applied to accounts to connected applications.

According to this disclosure an identity management system is augmented to extend to connected applications the security risk assessment techniques traditionally associated with accounts.

In one embodiment a method for assessing security risks associated with a cloud application to which one or more connected applications are coupled begins by configuring a security risk assessment application to function as a connected application to the cloud application. This operation enables the security risk assessment application to access and receive data from the cloud application. To this end the security risk assessment application collects first data associated with one or more accounts and second data associated with the one or more connected applications coupled to the cloud application. The first data includes a list of accounts and additional data associated with each account. The second data includes a list of the one or more connected applications coupled to the cloud application and additional data associated with each of the connected applications.

After receiving the first and second data the security risk assessment application instantiates that data into a generic data object that the system uses to represent each account and each of the one or more connected applications. Each such data object thus is populated either with the first data or the second data depending on whether the data object represents an account or a connected application. A risk assessment is then applied to the generic data object to assess a security risk associated with the cloud application.

In particular the same risk assessment operation may be applied to both the first data and the second data namely to both accounts and connected applications or the same risk assessment operation may be applied to both accounts and connected applications but with different criteria for evaluation or a different risk assessment operation may be applied to each of the first and second data representing the accounts or the connected applications as the case may be etc. Generalizing similar or unique assessments may be performed for both the accounts and the connected applications. In this manner systems applicable to managing human users e.g. as represented by IAM accounts can also manage connected applications. This enable security risk assessments traditionally performed only for accounts to be performed for applications that have been granted access to cloud applications.

The foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent features of the subject matter. These features should be construed to be merely illustrative. Many other beneficial results can be attained by applying the disclosed subject matter in a different manner or by modifying the subject matter as will be described.

With reference now to the drawings and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented. It should be appreciated that are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which aspects or embodiments of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

With reference now to the drawings depicts a pictorial representation of an exemplary distributed data processing system in which aspects of the illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Distributed data processing system may include a network of computers in which aspects of the illustrative embodiments may be implemented. The distributed data processing system contains at least one network which is the medium used to provide communication links between various devices and computers connected together within distributed data processing system . The network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables.

In the depicted example server and server are connected to network along with storage unit . In addition clients and are also connected to network . These clients and may be for example personal computers network computers or the like. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to the clients and . Clients and are clients to server in the depicted example. Distributed data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown.

In the depicted example distributed data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course the distributed data processing system may also be implemented to include a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or the like. As stated above is intended as an example not as an architectural limitation for different embodiments of the disclosed subject matter and therefore the particular elements shown in should not be considered limiting with regard to the environments in which the illustrative embodiments of the present invention may be implemented.

With reference now to a block diagram of an exemplary data processing system is shown in which aspects of the illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as client in in which computer usable code or instructions implementing the processes for illustrative embodiments of the disclosure may be located.

With reference now to a block diagram of a data processing system is shown in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as server or client in in which computer usable program code or instructions implementing the processes may be located for the illustrative embodiments. In this illustrative example data processing system includes communications fabric which provides communications between processor unit memory persistent storage communications unit input output I O unit and display .

Processor unit serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . Processor unit may be a set of one or more processors or may be a multi processor core depending on the particular implementation. Further processor unit may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor SMP system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Memory and persistent storage are examples of storage devices. A storage device is any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information either on a temporary basis and or a permanent basis. Memory in these examples may be for example a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. Persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage may be a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage also may be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit is a network interface card. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links.

Input output unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example input output unit may provide a connection for user input through a keyboard and mouse. Further input output unit may send output to a printer. Display provides a mechanism to display information to a user.

Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into memory for execution by processor unit . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as memory . These instructions are referred to as program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code in the different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or tangible computer readable media such as memory or persistent storage .

Program code is located in a functional form on computer readable media that is selectively removable and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system for execution by processor unit . Program code and computer readable media form computer program product in these examples. In one example computer readable media may be in a tangible form such as for example an optical or magnetic disc that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of persistent storage for transfer onto a storage device such as a hard drive that is part of persistent storage . In a tangible form computer readable media also may take the form of a persistent storage such as a hard drive a thumb drive or a flash memory that is connected to data processing system . The tangible form of computer readable media is also referred to as computer recordable storage media. In some instances computer recordable media may not be removable.

Alternatively program code may be transferred to data processing system from computer readable media through a communications link to communications unit and or through a connection to input output unit . The communications link and or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples. The computer readable media also may take the form of non tangible media such as communications links or wireless transmissions containing the program code. The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown. As one example a storage device in data processing system is any hardware apparatus that may store data. Memory persistent storage and computer readable media are examples of storage devices in a tangible form.

In another example a bus system may be used to implement communications fabric and may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus or an input output bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system. Additionally a communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. Further a memory may be for example memory or a cache such as found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in communications fabric .

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash memory equivalent non volatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the illustrative embodiments may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system other than the SMP system mentioned previously without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed subject matter.

As will be seen the techniques described herein may operate in conjunction within the standard client server paradigm such as illustrated in in which client machines communicate with an Internet accessible Web based portal executing on a set of one or more machines. End users operate Internet connectable devices e.g. desktop computers notebook computers Internet enabled mobile devices or the like that are capable of accessing and interacting with the portal. Typically each client or server machine is a data processing system such as illustrated in comprising hardware and software and these entities communicate with one another over a network such as the Internet an intranet an extranet a private network or any other communications medium or link. A data processing system typically includes one or more processors an operating system one or more applications and one or more utilities. The applications on the data processing system provide native support for Web services including without limitation support for HTTP SOAP XML WSDL UDDI and WSFL among others. Information regarding SOAP WSDL UDDI and WSFL is available from the World Wide Web Consortium W3C which is responsible for developing and maintaining these standards further information regarding HTTP and XML is available from Internet Engineering Task Force IETF . Familiarity with these standards is presumed.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. This cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models all as more particularly described and defined in Draft NIST Working Definition of Cloud Computing by Peter Mell and Tim Grance dated Oct. 7 2009.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based e mail . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and it may be on premises or off premises.

Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may be on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds .

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes. A representative cloud computing node is as illustrated in above. In particular in a cloud computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like. Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

A cloud computing environment may comprise a set of functional abstraction layers from bottom to top as follows a hardware and software layer a virtualization layer a management layer and a workloads layer.

The hardware and software layer includes hardware and software components. Examples of hardware components include mainframes in one example IBM zSeries systems RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer architecture based servers in one example IBM pSeries systems IBM xSeries systems IBM BladeCenter systems storage devices networks and networking components. Examples of software components include network application server software in one example IBM WebSphere application server software and database software in one example IBM DB2 database software. IBM zSeries pSeries xSeries BladeCenter WebSphere and DB2 are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation registered in many jurisdictions worldwide 

The virtualization layer provides an abstraction layer from which the following examples of virtual entities may be provided virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients.

The management layer may provide various functions as follows. Resource provisioning provides dynamic procurement of computing resources and other resources that are utilized to perform tasks within the cloud computing environment. Metering and Pricing provide cost tracking as resources are utilized within the cloud computing environment and billing or invoicing for consumption of these resources. In one example these resources may comprise application software licenses. Security provides identity verification for cloud consumers and tasks as well as protection for data and other resources. User portal provides access to the cloud computing environment for consumers and system administrators. Service level management provides cloud computing resource allocation and management such that required service levels are met. Service Level Agreement SLA planning and fulfillment provides pre arrangement for and procurement of cloud computing resources for which a future requirement is anticipated in accordance with an SLA.

Finally the workloads layer provides examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include mapping and navigation software development and lifecycle management virtual classroom education delivery data analytics processing transaction processing.

A representative cloud computing environment typically has a set of high level functional components that include a front end identity manager a business support services BSS function component an operational support services OSS function component and the compute cloud component. The identity manager is responsible for interfacing with requesting clients to provide identity management and this component may be implemented with one or more known systems such as the Tivoli Federated Identity Manager TFIM that is available from IBM Corporation of Armonk N.Y. In appropriate circumstances TFIM may be used to provide federated single sign on F SSO to other cloud components. The business support services component provides certain administrative functions such as billing support. The operational support services component is used to provide provisioning and management of the other cloud components such as virtual machine VM instances. The cloud component represents the main computational resources which are typically a plurality of virtual machine instances that are used to execute a target application that is being made available for access via the cloud. One or more databases are used to store directory log and other working data. All of these components included the front end identity manager are located within the cloud but this is not a requirement. In an alternative embodiment the identity manager may be operated externally to the cloud. The service provider also may be operated externally to the cloud.

Some clouds are based upon non traditional IP networks. Thus for example a cloud may be based upon two tier CLOS based networks with special single layer IP routing using hashes of MAC addresses. The techniques described herein may be used in such non traditional clouds.

As used herein an account typically refers to an entity that contains a set of parameters that define application specific attributes of a principal which include the identity user profile and credentials.

 Access refers the ability to read update delete or otherwise use a resource. Access to protected resources is typically controlled by system software.

A credential refers to a declaration of authorization or other security attributes of a subject that is typically validated and signed by a trusted third party. Typically a credential represents the ID and authenticators such as a password for a resource.

An entitlement refers to a capability based reason that a user is given a permission or set of permissions to access IT resources services .

An identity refers to a subset of profile data that uniquely represents a person or entity and that is stored in one or more repositories.

A dormant account is an account that has not been used for a given preferably configurable time period e.g. a number of days . A dormant account typically is associated with a service. Preferably servers in the system are configured to record last login information and to provide return this information upon request. By reconciling the last login information the system can determine the existence of dormant accounts.

A dormant account report lists the accounts that are not recently used and it may include the service information of the dormant account the number of days dormant and a list of accounts dormant as of the report date. Preferably accounts that do not have last access information are not considered dormant. Accounts that are not dormant include both new accounts for which a Last Access Date field is blank.

An ownership type refers to a category that classifies accounts. One account preferably can have only one type of ownership. Accounts can be marked with different ownership types depending on their use. Default ownership types include for example device personal system and vendor.

A person is an individual in the system that has a person record in one or more corporate directories.

A principal is a person or group that has been granted permissions. It also refers to an entity that can communicate securely with another entity.

In identity management provisioning refers to the process of providing deploying and tracking a service or component. To provision means to set up and maintain the access of a user to a system or to create an account on a managed resource.

A provisioning policy is a policy that defines the access to various managed resources services such as applications or operating systems. Access is granted to all users users with a specific role or users who are not members of a specific role.

A role is a logical group of principals that provide a set of permissions. Access to resources is controlled by using provisioning policy to grant access to a role. A role can also represent a group of principals based on business job title or other business related attributes.

A service is a representation of a managed resource application database or system. In an identity management system typically a service represents the user repository for a managed resource.

A user is an individual organization process device program protocol or system that uses the services of a computing system. For example a user is an individual who uses the identity management system to manage their accounts and passwords or that is managed by the system.

For many applications networks databases and other resources users are given access by an authority or administrative role to enable activity associated with the resource. The conditions and limitations of the access for a given user are referred to as the access entitlement of the user and include defined limitations as to the activities the user may perform with or on the resource. Access entitlements among users of the same resource can vary. For instance a database administrator may have access and authority to read write edit search copy delete and transfer data for a specific database whereas others with access to the database may be limited to searching and reading data.

Identity management IdM is an administrative area that utilizes a system to identify individuals with membership or association such as with a group organization company etc. Additionally an IdM system controls the individual s access to resources by use of restrictions or permissions. To facilitate better decisions for granting appropriate access information regarding a user s request for access their job role and whether the access is a new request or renewal is considered however this limited information can prove ineffective in preventing high risk situations.

Control and oversight of resource access approval of individuals in business or enterprise organizations are further challenged by the turnover of personnel the dynamic day to day changes and organizational restructuring as well as application version upgrades. In large organizations granting users the appropriate access entitlements to resources and maintaining access entitlements is a difficult task that can involve thousands of users and hundreds of resources. Resource access decisions and compliance verification responsibilities are typically allocated to supervisors or managers who have few tools to facilitate decisions or identify risks and due to time constraints often provide access in the belief that the individuals performance will improve or not be impacted.

It is known in the prior art to provide software and services to deploy policy based provisioning solutions. These solutions helps companies automate the process of provisioning employees contractors and business partners with access rights to the applications they need whether in a closed enterprise environment or across a virtual or extended enterprise. A known product of this type is IBM Security Identity Manager.

As illustrated in the main components of the IBM Security Identity Manager solution include IBM Security Identity Manager Server and required and optional middleware components including adapters that provide an interface to managed resources. In a cluster configuration as illustrated the components include a database server that stores transactional and historical data and a relational database that maintains current and historical states of data. Computers that communicate with the database typically require a Java Database Connectivity driver JDBC driver . For example a JDBC driver enables an IBM Security Identity Manager Server to communicate with a data source. IBM Security Identity Manager supports a JDBC type 4 driver to connect a Java based application to a database. The supported database products are IBM DB2 Database Oracle DB and MS SQL Server database. As also seen in the solution also includes a directory server to store a current state of the managed identities including user account and organizational data in an LDAP or equivalent directory. Thus for example IBM Security Identity Manager supports the following products IBM Tivoli Directory Server and Sun Enterprise Directory Server. The solution also preferably includes a directory integrator such as IBM Tivoli Directory Integrator to synchronize identity data in different directories databases and applications. IBM Tivoli Directory Integrator synchronizes and manages information exchanges between applications or directory sources. The solution also includes one or more application servers such as IBM WebSphere Application Server. WebSphere Application Server runs a Java virtual machine JVM that provides a runtime environment for the application code. The application server provides communication security logging messaging and Web services. As also seen in typically the configuration includes one or more WebSphere Application Servers and a deployment manager that manages the cluster. The solution also typically includes an HTTP server and WebSphere Web Server plug in . An HTTP server provides administration of IBM Security Identity Manager through a client interface in a web browser. Finally the solution typically includes one or more IBM Security Identity Manager adapters . An adapter is a program that provides an interface between a managed resource and the IBM Security Identity Manager Server. Adapters function as trusted virtual administrators on the target platform for account management. For example adapters do such tasks as creating accounts suspending accounts and modifying account attributes. An IBM Security Identity Manager adapter can be either agent based or agentless. An agent based adapter is one wherein the user installs adapter code directly onto the managed resource with which it is designed to communicate. An agentless adapter is deployed onto the IBM Security Identity Manager Server and the system that hosts IBM Tivoli Directory Integrator. In this case the adapter code is separate from the managed resource with which it is designed to communicate.

As noted above the implementation shown in is not intended to be limiting but rather merely illustrates one possible operating environment other commercial or proprietary implementations may include similar components and functionalities.

Each of the machines shown in may be implemented using the machine architecture shown in the various machines may interact with one another as illustrated in .

The security identity management solution of this type also may be implemented in whole or in part in a cloud based solution.

At step 1 the enterprise identifies the resources that it wants protected and the accesses it wants certified and monitored. The data is cleaned filtered and prepared for loading into the Identity and Access Management system through TDI LDAP Feed flat files CSV DSML etc. or API. At step 2 the data may be loaded into a role and policy module for modeling and management. This data can come from various sources Human Resources HR a planning and modeling tool or manual entry. In a typical use case the data gathered during planning is saved e.g. in a standard CSV file and then imported into IBM Security Identity Manager for role and policy modeling. The system can export the modeled role and entitlement data e.g. in XML format and load it for lifecycle management and certification. At step 3 stakeholders and participants can use the Identity and Access Management system for the various tasks that they must perform such as requesting accesses and roles approving access and role requests certifying managing and modeling roles and reviewing and certifying roles and entitlements. The certification data can be used to clean adapt and evolve the system. As step 4 the access and entitlement enforcement system imports or provisions the data from Identity and Access management system into the access and entitlement enforcement systems. At step 5 the enforcement system uses the certified data for runtime enforcement. The SIEM system monitors actual user activity and provides feedback to fine tune access policy planning administration and enforcement.

As illustrated in one of the responsibilities of the Identity and Access Management system is to provide initial and periodic access certification for continued business needs to help direct and control operations. Access certification typically includes review and certification of user access assignment via role or direct assignment to determine who received access to what when and why. It ensures that users have only the privileges and exception entitlements they need to perform their job. Access certification can also be used to detect policy violations access anomalies and orphan and dormant accounts. The IAM system typically also maintains certification and access change history which aids the certification and audit processes.

The system also supports the notion of user to role recertification and user to access recertification according to a recertification policy. Recertification policy simplifies and automates the process of periodically revalidating a target type account or access or a membership role or resource group . Depending on the business needs and the risk level of protected resources organizations can set a suitable period to perform the scheduled access certification. They can also kick off a certification campaign that is based on demand or on an event such as a management event or anomaly detection. The process sends recertification notification e.g. CBN and approval events to the participants. A recertification policy includes activities to ensure that users provide confirmation that they have a valid ongoing need for a specified resource or membership. Typically the recertification policy also defines the operation that occurs if the recipient declines or does not respond to the recertification request. Recertification policies use a set of notifications to initiate workflow activities in the recertification process. For example a system administrator of a specific service can create a recertification policy for the service that sets a 90 day interval for account recertification. If the recipient of the recertification declines recertification the account can be automatically suspended. During the certification process the system can do bulk or selective certification. For a time critical certification the system may provide options to automatically escalate or delegate the action item to an alternate user when timely action is not taken.

Preferably the system enables certifiers to preview the impact of the certification before submitting it to see if any roles accounts or groups are affected by the access decision. Approval and recertification policies deliver change control at the user role and access level. Without substantially impacting the business the change control process can consume any change to the business that affects the user role and access structure.

Security products such as IBM Security Identity Manager maintain and report information such as dormancy and privileges about cloud application accounts but not for connected applications.

With the above as background the subject matter of this disclosure is now described. As noted a connected application is an application that has been granted access to a cloud application. Because the application typically acts as a client to the cloud application or more generally a remote service application a connected application also is sometimes referred to herein as a connected application client. There may be more one or more connected applications associated with a particular cloud application.

As described above and according to this disclosure an identity management system is augmented i.e. extended or supplemented to extend to connected application clients one or more security risk assessment techniques traditionally associated with accounts. As noted above an account in this context typically refers to an IAM account namely an entity that contains a set of parameters that define application specific attributes of a principal which include the identity user profile and credentials. According to this disclosure in addition to assessing security risks for a subject cloud application which involves known IAM functionality associated with accounts the system is also provided with the capability of assessing security risks for the cloud application that arise from the one or more connected applications that are coupled to the cloud application.

As used herein a subject cloud application is a cloud application to which one or more connected applications are connected coupled configured or provisioned and for which there is a need or desire to assess security risks. The nature of the risk assessment may vary but typically one or more risk assessments include dormancy privileges unintended exposed data unintended continued management and any other security risk assessment that may be enabled by the IAM system.

The technique herein assumes that existing interfaces and systems are provided to enable a cloud administrator to configure an application to access a subject cloud application and thus to be a connected application. As noted above there may be one or more connected applications associated with the cloud application. According to this disclosure and as depicted in an IAM system such as depicted in is augmented to include a security risk assessment application . This application may comprise existing functionality in the IAM system functionality provided by a standalone application or some combination thereof. Generalizing the security risk assessment application typically is software e.g. one or more computer programs executing in hardware across one or more machines. Various functions provided by the security risk assessment application may be co located or remote from one another. One or more databases are associated with the security risk assessment application for holding data and other information. A configuration interface such as web based interface may be used to configure the security risk application to the cloud application in the alternative a system default configuration may be used. The configuration interface provides a user interface UI by which a user can create e.g. specify identify change select an access policy for the cloud application to thereby form a specification for the security risk assessment application and by which the user can adjust the security risk assessment application as needed.

The security risk assessment application provides for a way to assess security risks for one or more cloud applications such as cloud application . A basic process flow for this technique is depicted in . Typically there will be a single security risk assessment application associated with a particular cloud application although this is not a limitation. Thus there may be multiple instances of the security risk assessment application e.g. one per cloud application being managed or multiple different applications each of which can be configured in the manner now described.

As noted above the process assumes that there is a target cloud application for which a security risk assessment is desired to be made. There are one or more connected applications presumed to be associated with the target cloud application. The security risk assessment application is used to assess security risks for the target cloud application including those security risks that derive from the connected applications.

To this end the process begins at step with the administrator of a cloud application e.g. Salesforce.com Office or some other defining the security risk assessment application itself as a connected application to the subject cloud application. This operation allows the security risk assessment application to access data from the cloud application. When configured in this manner the security risk assessment application operating as a cloud application client is able to invoke one or more application programming interfaces APIs to gather data take one or more actions etc. Communications between the security risk assessment application or any other connected application and the cloud application are secured in the usual manner e.g. via SSL TLS private networking or the like . Configuring an application as a connected application client also affords the security risk assessment application one or more privileges or permissions to the cloud application e.g. to collect data makes changes to the system and the like . Generalizing step enables the administrator to specify details about the access to the cloud application the security risk assessment application should be given.

Following configuration of the security risk assessment application in this manner the method continues at step with the security risk assessment application activated to assess security risks for the subject cloud application to which it is now a connected application. This is additional functionality that is provided by the technique of this disclosure.

To this end at step and part of assessing security risks for the subject cloud application the security risk assessment application accesses from the cloud application first data related to accounts. Typically these are IAM accounts. To this end step typically involves the security risk assessment application accessing such first data as a list of accounts as well the following for each account privileges of the account a last time the account was accessed e.g. last login and possibly other data. Additionally and also as part of assessing security risks for the subject cloud application at step the security risk assessment application preferably also accesses from the cloud application second data related to connected applications. The accessed second data typically includes the list of connected applications as well the following for each connected application privileges of the connected application a last time the connected application accessed the cloud application and possibly other data. Steps and may occur sequentially concurrently periodically asynchronously in response to a condition or event or otherwise.

At step and based on the data accessed in steps and the security risk assessment application generates an internal representation of each account and connected application. Preferably the internal representation is generic to both types accounts on the one hand and connected applications on the other . In a preferred embodiment the internal representation is a generic object comprising a data set. By representing accounts and connected applications by the same generic object or object type the IAM system is able to apply security risk assessment methods and operations to both types of entities. This is highly advantageous as it enables the IAM system to treat the accounts and connected applications the same way in some respects but also with differences where appropriate so that accounts and connected applications also can be differentiated.

Thus the security risk assessment application collects first data associated with one or more accounts and second data associated with the one or more connected applications coupled to the cloud application. The security risk assessment application or some other system component then generates a data object that represents each account and each of the one or more connected applications with the data object populated with one of the first data and the second data depending on the whether an account is being represented or whether a connected application is being represented by the data object. Once the first and second data has been represented in this manner which may involve a data transformation with respect to the second data the resulting data object can be acted upon by one or more security risk assessment functions or operations.

To that end and at step the security risk assessment application then assesses risk for accounts and connected applications preferably using some common techniques for both types some techniques specific to accounts and some techniques specific to connected applications. The nature of the operation in step depends on the security risk assessment function e.g. dormancy privileges etc. and which of the types accounts or connected applications are being analyzed.

For example and not by way of limitation risk assessment for dormancy may be performed the same way for accounts and connected applications. The results of the dormancy risk assessment preferably would include information a token an identifier etc. that allows the user to differentiate accounts from connected applications.

As another example risk assessment for privileges may be performed the same way for accounts and connected applications or different criteria can be applied. For example the threshold for categorizing an account as privileged or risky might be different than a connected application but preferably the general assessment approach can be the same.

As yet another example some unique risk assessments might be performed only for accounts while other unique risk assessments might be performed only for connected applications. For example the risk associated with the expiration date of an OAuth token might be performed only for a connected application as that token might not apply to accounts in the cloud application

The above are merely representative example scenarios but they represent an important advantage of the technique of this disclosure namely the ability of the IAM system to apply its standard risk assessment methodologies to both accounts and connected applications.

The following describes a process flow corresponding to one example implementation scenario for step in . The process flow may iterate over one or more data objects. At a first step the data object is obtained. At a next step the data object is classified or otherwise identified as being associated with an account or a connected application. At a following step a common assessment one that is carried out for both accounts and connected applications is performed. During the common assessment step different criteria may be applied depending on whether the data object is an account or a connected application. An account specific assessment is performed if the data object represents an account. An application specific assessment is performed if the data object represents a connected application. The common assessment step and the account specific or application specific assessments may be carried out concurrently or asynchronously or in response to one or more conditions or events. This process flow is merely exemplary of one possible implementation scenario.

Thus according to an embodiment of this disclosure an IAM system is enhanced to treat a connected application to cloud application or more generally any application to application A2A connectivity as an internal construct within the IAM system that can be managed in the same way as an account is managed by the system. As such and as represented by step one or more IAM based rules policies methods or operations are then applied to assess security risks for the cloud application or more generally the connected to application by virtue of the A2A connectivity. Thus for example the IAM system may identify the connected application as dormant or may require re certification of the connected application after a given period of inactivity etc. In this manner conventional IAM processing is applied to assess the security risk s to the target cloud application of the connected application. Once the connected application is generalized by the internal representation conventional IAM rules are applied. As needed governance holes are identified and remedial action can be taken. One remedial action for example is severing the connected application connectivity.

A representative data object may be implemented as data structure that comprises a set of attributes such as name type last usage and entitlements and their associated values. For an account an attribute name might be populated with a user ID for a connected application the attribute name might be populated with the name of the connected application. The attribute type takes the value account or connected application. For an account an attribute last usage might be populated with the date and time that the user last logged into the cloud application for a connected application this attribute might be populated with the date and time when the connected application last accessed the cloud application. The entitlements attribute typically is a collection of the entitlements the account or connected application has on the cloud application. These entitlements might include for example create documents read documents edit documents delete documents create users change password read user data and so forth. The data structure may be an array a linked list or any other data structure.

The techniques of this disclosure provide several advantages. Foremost the approach extends known systems applicable to managing human users e.g. IAM accounts to manage connected applications. This enables security risk assessments traditionally performed only for accounts to be performed for connected applications that have been granted access to cloud applications even though those connected applications are not represented as accounts in the cloud application. As a by product the techniques of this disclosure enable more robust detection of risks and vulnerabilities involved when connected applications use cloud applications.

The functionality described above may be implemented as a standalone approach e.g. a software based function executed by a processor or it may be available as a managed service including as a web service via a SOAP XML interface . The particular hardware and software implementation details described herein are merely for illustrative purposes are not meant to limit the scope of the described subject matter.

More generally computing devices within the context of the disclosed subject matter are each a data processing system such as shown in comprising hardware and software and these entities communicate with one another over a network such as the Internet an intranet an extranet a private network or any other communications medium or link. The applications on the data processing system provide native support for Web and other known services and protocols including without limitation support for HTTP FTP SMTP SOAP XML WSDL UDDI and WSFL among others. Information regarding SOAP WSDL UDDI and WSFL is available from the World Wide Web Consortium W3C which is responsible for developing and maintaining these standards further information regarding HTTP FTP SMTP and XML is available from Internet Engineering Task Force IETF . Familiarity with these known standards and protocols is presumed.

The scheme described herein may be implemented in or in conjunction with various server side architectures including simple n tier architectures web portals federated systems and the like. The techniques herein may be practiced in a loosely coupled server including a cloud based environment. The security risk assessment application an associated administration page or the workflow functions or components thereof may be hosted in the cloud as well.

Still more generally the subject matter described herein can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the function is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like. Furthermore as noted above the identity context based access control functionality can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain or store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or a semiconductor system or apparatus or device . Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD. The computer readable medium is a tangible item.

The computer program product may be a product having program instructions or program code to implement one or more of the described functions. Those instructions or code may be stored in a computer readable storage medium in a data processing system after being downloaded over a network from a remote data processing system. Or those instructions or code may be stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system and adapted to be downloaded over a network to a remote data processing system for use in a computer readable storage medium within the remote system.

In a representative embodiment the security risk assessment application components are implemented in a special purpose computer preferably in software executed by one or more processors. The software is maintained in one or more data stores or memories associated with the one or more processors and the software may be implemented as one or more computer programs. Collectively this special purpose hardware and software comprises the functionality described above.

Further any authentication or authorization functionality required herein may be implemented as an adjunct or extension to an existing access manager or policy management solution.

While the above describes a particular order of operations performed by certain embodiments of the invention it should be understood that such order is exemplary as alternative embodiments may perform the operations in a different order combine certain operations overlap certain operations or the like. References in the specification to a given embodiment indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic.

Finally while given components of the system have been described separately one of ordinary skill will appreciate that some of the functions may be combined or shared in given instructions program sequences code portions and the like.

The techniques herein provide for improvements to another technology or technical field namely identity access and management systems as well as improvements to security risk assessment systems that operate in association therewith.

As used here a connected application or connected application client may be generalized to any Internet of Things IoT based device appliance machine mechanism product or system. In this manner the described technique is useful to enable security risk assessment techniques traditionally associated with IAM accounts to be any IoT client.

The teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the disclosed subject matter are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of remote services computing environment now known or later developed.

