---

title: Generating visual information associated with traffic
abstract: Disclosed herein is a traveler information monitoring and dissemination system. The system disclosed herein provides real time information to a traveler, wherein the real time information may be pre-selected by the traveler. The system ensures consistent and quality data are produced and issued to the traveler.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09640073&OS=09640073&RS=09640073
owner: PELMOREX CANADA INC.
number: 09640073
owner_city: Oakville, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20150708
---
The present application is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 029 617 filed Sep. 17 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 082 303 which is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 561 304 filed Jul. 30 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 564 455 which is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 967 045 filed Dec. 13 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 358 222 which is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. Pat. No. 12 482 285 filed Jun. 10 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 880 642 which is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 751 628 filed May 21 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 557 730 which is a continuation and claims the priorty benefit of U.S. Pat. No. 11 302 418 filed Dec. 12 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 221 287 which is a continuation in part and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 253 301 filed Oct. 17 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 161 497 which is a divisional and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 379 967 filed Mar. 5 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 989 765 which claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 362 155 filed Mar. 5 2002 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 302 418 also claims the priority benefit of the following U.S. provisional applications 60 634 951 filed Dec. 10 2004 60 658 312 filed Mar. 3 2005 and 60 694 742 filed Jun. 28 2005. The disclosure of all these commonly owned applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Grant No. 0349460 awarded by the National Science Foundation.

This invention generally relates to systems for monitoring motor vehicle traffic conditions on highways and incidents affecting transit and to an improved system for alerting drivers of traffic incidents and congestion pertaining to their usual or current route of travel as well as users of transit of conditions affecting them.

Traffic congestion on highways and other roadways has increasingly become a problem particularly in most large metropolitan areas. For example traffic congestion is not without an economic impact. For instance a recent mobility study by the Texas Transportation Institute estimated that the cost of congestion for an average driver in the San Francisco Bay Area during 2002 was about 800 per driver per year where drivers also wasted an average of 92 hours. This report also estimated that in general more than half of the travel delay is due to incidents such as accidents obstructions disabled vehicles and related problems.

Further it is largely acknowledged that travelers in the US and other countries are poorly informed of incidents and congestion impacting their route. According to Research Report PRR 2000 07 of University of California in Berkeley which was commissioned to study an incident reporting system radio reports are the primary source of Information for travelers. Radio reports are often delayed as many radio stations report traffic every 10 to 20 minutes. As radio reports are limited to announcing a few incidents and are provided for a large area their relevance to an individual traveler is generally limited.

For various stages of traffic reporting on the radio human processing and interpretation of the data is required. As congestion and traffic density increase and as an increasing number of traffic monitoring systems are being developed traffic and transit data are becoming richer and more complex. There is also an increased need for speedy dispatch of the data. As such human processing of the data is becoming ineffective and automated processing and understanding of traffic data desirable.

TrafficWarn dispatches traffic alerts to subscribers. Subscribers are required to choose routes for receiving alerts. Once a route is chosen alerts are received for the entire length of the route which can result in the receipt of unwanted and confusing information.

The Sigalert system dispatches traffic alerts to subscribers. Subscribers are permitted to select portions of highways.

Although the prior art methods are designed to provide notice to travelers of important information they generally fail to provide a satisfactory solution to the problem of informing a large population of the travelers as soon as and every time a problem is known.

Typically prior art systems for publishing traveler information do not qualify data and therefore routinely publish outdated information. In addition prior art systems typically publish the exact list of information from a data source without providing necessary additions or correcting omissions. For example such systems do not predict or publish an expected end time if such data is not explicitly available. In addition some prior art systems will continue to publish potentially outdated information if for some reason the supply of fresh data is disrupted. Experience in the development of the invention disclosed herein has shown that disruptions in data can occur frequently. Thus prior art systems are not enabled to determine whether the impact of an incident has expired.

Therefore a need exists to provide an improved more efficient and more automated system for management of incident and congestion data. Preferably the system should be capable of matching to active or passive subscribers and providing information through various mechanisms and on various devices including cell phones and other similar devices which may be ported from one vehicle to another. The system should provide data that is reliable complete timely and preferably concisely stated.

The foregoing and other problems are overcome by methods and apparatus in accordance with embodiments of this invention.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for automatically collecting correcting merging and publishing information about traffic transit weather public events and other information useful to travelers. Once available the information is published with very short system delays. The system provides for the elimination of outdated information on an ongoing basis.

The system further ensures the relevance of the data provided to travelers users through enabling the entry and tracking of user specific information that may be customized by location and time.

The system collects data on a continuous basis at one or more locations. One or more feeding programs operate to collect information parse the information into a standard form and subsequently transmit the information to a server. The feeding programs are able to transmit data with a very short delay as they may conduct queries of data sources once every minute or even more frequently. In one exemplary embodiment the feeding program is run as a daemon program.

A data processor analyzes data provided by the feeding program determines whether the fed data is new or not assigns a beginning and end time for each record of fed data determines whether the data is active whether the data was previously known or unknown to the system assigns an importance or severity level to the data. The data processor analyzes fed data continuously for instance as a daemon program.

The data processor compiles and stores an up to date list of active and new data. In determining whether an incident is known or not known the system may determine that new information pertaining to known traffic data may increase the severity of the data and classify the data as new and more severe.

In the case where a data supply is disrupted for some reason which commonly occurs for incident and other traffic data reporting the data processor will gradually remove outdated events from the active list using known information or reasonable assumptions. For example the data processor may gradually remove data where previously established event end time predates the current time. Thus outdated data will be limited by the publishing and dispatching system. In preferred embodiments the data processor will be fed or calculate a latitude and longitude for each record of data.

The system operates to merge data from various sources. For instance incidents from a state police dispatch system may be merged with highway monitoring speed sensor data produced by a department of transportation. Thus a single data form that is readily and conveniently publishable and dispatchable to subscribers is provided.

The system collects and stores subscriber preferences for each subscriber or user. Information collected from a subscriber includes without limitation unique locations for monitoring referred to as segment IDs combined with a segment of time day and time for monitoring as well as the severity level of an incident for which a subscriber wishes to be notified.

Users may actively log in to the system and enter preferences. For example a section of roadway such as Southbound US 101 between Whipple Ave and University Ave may be stored as a single Segment ID. The user also enters certain periods of time when they wish to monitor the given Segment ID. This time may correspond to a known commuting time. The segments may include other transit routes such as subway or bus.

A publishing and dispatching system takes input from the data processor and publishes active data using text and maps. In case there are new subscribers since the previous execution of the system the active incident list is matched against new subscribers.

In one further embodiment users may be passively logged into the database with a device that transmits the user location to the system such as through use of a GPS receiver or by a cellular telephone cell and the system will transmit appropriate route information as is available.

Disclosed herein are methods and apparatus for providing information relevant to a person traveling a specific route at a specific time. In the preferred embodiment this invention provides vehicular traffic congestion information to subscribers or users through various communication systems available to consumers. Although disclosed herein as a system for providing vehicular traffic congestion information the methods and apparatus disclosed may be used to provide any type of information to users where time sensitive general interest information is needed. Examples of such information include without limitation weather information information regarding arrival and or departure of scheduled flights trains as well as other similar types of information.

The disclosure herein describes preferred embodiments in terms of a vehicular traffic monitoring system for the San Francisco Bay area. It should be recognized that the embodiment disclosed is but one embodiment and the invention herein is not limited to this one embodiment. For example the teachings herein may be used in other urban and or rural areas.

The invention herein makes use of various existing technologies. For example information can be collected by the system from locations on the Internet such as from a web page that provides real time data. Users may be provided information on communication devices such as without limitation a cell phone a pager or through email. One skilled in the art will recognize that the invention disclosed herein is not limited by the communications technologies discussed or related to the teachings herein. As used herein real time data means data that is available as soon as practicable. Availability of real time data may range anywhere from a few seconds to a few minutes but typically no more than a few minutes from the time the data was first known or published.

Tools for the development of software used in this invention may include tools having the capabilities of packages such as GNUEmacs editor on either a UNIX or Windows platform as well as Microsoft Visual Studio .NET on the Windows platform. The preferred programming languages are C C C Perl and SQL but other language or development tools may be used as well.

A personalized information dissemination system as disclosed herein generally includes components as described in this Overview. However certain refinements and exceptions to the above relationships and functions exist or may be realized. These refinements and exceptions are either disclosed herein or may be apparent to one skilled in the art. Therefore the invention disclosed herein is not to be limited by the exemplary embodiment or this overview.

Referring to the Traveler Information Dissemination System TIDS includes certain components which generally function as outlined in this overview. Traffic data is provided by sources in real time or near real time by third parties. As the data is published the data is collected by Feeding Programs . The Feeding Programs collect the data in various forms from a variety of Data Sources . The Feeding Programs standardize the data and provide the data to the Traveler Data Processor TDP . The TDP engages in various routines to organize and otherwise manage the data. The Traveler Data Publisher and the Traveler Data Dispatcher complete timely issuance of data to subscribers also referred to herein as users. Each user having entered information desired for a specific or routine itinerary through a Commute Route Selector receives the data through a mechanism such as a cellular phone or pager .

In another embodiment traveler information is generally available for viewing such as at a computer connected to the Internet. In this embodiment icons or graphical icons are used to provide users with general traveler information. In this embodiment a user may therefore view traveler information that may be related or unrelated to a given route.

Referring to the Traveler Information Dissemination System TIDS includes multiple Data Sources as shown. Data may come from a variety of sources and in a variety of forms. For example in the San Francisco Bay area Data Sources include the TravInfo system a collaboration of public agencies including the California Highway Patrol Metropolitan Transportation Commission and CALTRANS . Data may come from a web service . Another example of a data source is the California Highway Patrol CHP World Wide Web server . Other exemplary data sources include the National Weather Service the PeMS system at the University of Berkeley Public Event Listings as well as data input manually by system operators or users using for example a User Input Mechanism . Other data sources may be incorporated as they become available. The User Input Mechanism may be accessible to selected operators users or the general public may be permitted to provide input.

Some of these exemplary Data Sources may require subscription or authentication for access and may be accessible via Telnet FTP or web services protocols. Some of these Data Sources provide comprehensive data while others do not. Exemplary data is now provided. Other examples of data appear elsewhere in this disclosure.

It should be apparent that the input data inevitably contains differing content. For example one Data Source may report a location in terms of a street address another Data Source may report the same incident having the location in terms of an equipment identification number such as a sensor while another Data Source may report location in geographic terms such as latitude and longitude. Therefore standardization of data as the data is collected is required to ensure integrity of the TIDS .

Referring also to the Traveler Information Dissemination System TIDS includes one or more Feeding Programs . The Feeding Programs may be Data Transfer Programs or Data Feeding and Repackaging Programs . The Feeding Program Subsystem is responsible for fetching the data from the different Data Sources converting the data to a common format and pushing the data to a server using periodic FTP connections which are widely accepted by commercial servers and pose minimal security concerns. Other communication methods may be used.

Various Data Sources provide data some of which may require modification before use. Modification may involve processing to produce desired information such as to assign a unique ID to an incident. In cases where little or no data modification is required a Data Transfer Program is used. In cases where data modification is required a Data Feeding and Repackaging Program is used. A Data Feeding and Repackaging Program is typically required for public data such as the California Highway Patrol CHP World Wide Web server. In this example the Data Feeding and Repackaging Program retrieves and analyzes HTML data.

Examples of data that require few manipulations include data produced by a Telnet Server an example being the TravInfo system . Another example of data that may require few manipulations may be data originating at a specific Web Service .

Reliability for the Feeding Program Subsystem is achieved by redundancy. That is several computers equipped with the same feeding tasks can operate in various locations and on different networks to feed simultaneously.

The Feeding Program Subsystem operation requires minimal bandwidth for transmitting the data. This is due to the limited amount of data involved in each transmission such as a list of incidents traffic speed and congestion information at specific locations.

The Feeding Program Subsystem may thus successfully operate from a small collection of PCs connected with a low grade connection to the Internet such as cable or DSL.

A Unique identification is produced for each incident so that several independent instances of Feeding Programs may be executed in parallel. The Feeding Programs may be executed on one or more computers at one or more locations. The creation of the Unique ID in association with each record of data provides for subsequent sorting and elimination of redundant data. The Unique ID may be created using any convention that is suitable to the TIDS operator such as by combining date time and location information or the Unique ID may be produced by one or more of the Data Sources .

Referring also to a Traveler Data Processor and a Traveler Data Publisher typically execute on a server computer that has access to large bandwidth on the Internet and are directed to publishing data very quickly and for a large number of users. Such servers may be potentially shared by several companies and may impose certain communications restrictions for reasons such as efficiency and security. Accordingly in preferred embodiments the Feeding Programs push data to the Traveler Data Processor . However in some embodiments the Traveler Data Processor and or Traveler Data Publisher may obtain data directly. For example data may be obtained directly when using the FTP protocol or when receiving input from users via a User Input Mechanism .

As disclosed herein it is generally preferred that the Feeding Programs push data to the Traveler Data Processor . That is the Feeding Programs send data files to the processing system. The appropriate data processor subsequently opens the data files for processing. In other embodiments tasks related to the communication of data between the data processors such as in non limiting examples some of the other embodiments described in the previous paragraph.

The Traveler Data Processor coordinates with external resources as appropriate to ensure accurate or reliable operation. For example the TIDS maintains an accurate Clock by reference to an external clock such as one maintained by the National Institute of Standards Technologies. Maintaining an Independent Clock limits inaccuracies in calculation of end times that may arise from reliance upon server clock time.

The Traveler Data Processor includes at least one and preferably more of the following sub processors a Traffic Incident Processor a Traffic Congestion and Speed Processor a Transit Processor a Weather Processor and a Public Event Processor . In other embodiments additional or other sub processors may be included. These additional or other sub processors may be used to process data from sources not disclosed herein.

The Traveler Data Processor executes on a regular basis using either an on going daemon program that switches periodically between a waiting and an active state or a program that stops completely and is started or executed periodically. An example of the latter is the cron mechanism on UNIX operating systems.

It is preferred to have a Traveler Data Processor execute frequently such as every minute or more frequently. However in some embodiments it is appropriate to vary the interval of execution. For example in the embodiment where weather information is of principal interest it may be necessary to execute the Traveler Data Processor only once per hour. Execution frequency of the Traveler Data Processor therefore depends on various factors such as the nature of the data predominating in the TIDS .

Although the Traffic Incident Processor will now be discussed in detail it should be realized that aspects of the Traffic Incident Processor may appropriately function or coincide with other sub processors such as those disclosed herein or as may be used in accordance with the teachings herein. Each of the sub processors ensure data quality through functions including and not limited to completing missing information in records of input data provided by the Feeding Programs or directly by one of the Data Sources . The sub processors therefore share and complete analogous tasks for each of their respective streams of data.

That is some of the current data provided by a Data Source may not be provided with information that is important to a traveler. Accordingly each sub processor will analyze each record of the particular data or stream of data calculate or estimate appropriate values as may be missing or otherwise valuable to a traveler and include these values in the current or input data.

As used herein the process of including omitted or otherwise valuable information in the current or input data is also referred to as completing ensuring or producing quality data. The result is that current data or streams of data are transformed into quality data. It should be noted however that quality data may be referred to by other terms such as traveler information or in other similar terms and that such data is therefore not limited by the terminology.

Non limiting examples of ensuring data quality include adding geographic coordinates including a severity level assigning a unique identifier and others. Another non limiting example of ensuring data quality involves projecting an incident end time for the current data.

The Traffic Incident Processor accepts input from a variety of sources either through the Feeding Programs such as the Transfer Programs the Data Feeding and Repackaging Programs and or directly from the Data Sources . Among other things the Traffic Incident Processor determines if the incidents input are currently active. For example the Traffic Incident Processor determines if an incident has a current impact on travelers depending upon the incident description location and estimated beginning and end time. As another example the Traffic Incident Processor evaluates a temporal aspect of the incident. In this case the Traffic Incident Processor compares the time between the beginning and end time if presented in the data to the present time. If the end time is not in the past the temporal comparison shows the incident has a current impact. If the incident has a current impact the incident is put into the Active Traveler Information Database . Subsequently incident data may be repackaged in the form below or in a similar form. In preferred embodiments the incident data record includes a unique ID as a 6 digit number or other unique form.

In the foregoing example the expected end of the incident is computed by the system by adding a fixed amount of time to the incident start time or end time. The fixed amount of time added may vary depending upon factors such as the type and severity of the incident and the number of updates an incident has received.

After the Traffic Incident Processor finishes one run of execution global positioning coordinate and severity level information is preferably generated. Generation of this information for each incident provides at least for placement on a map and ranking with respect to severity 

The following Table 1 lists exemplary severity levels that may be associated with incidents when examining the type subtype and description of incidents wherein the lowest severity number corresponds to the most severe incidents types.

Other factors such as the incident duration may yield a lower severity number as well as the indication that the same incident was reported and corroborated by another independent data source such as CHP and TravInfo or CHP and a Web user . Typically every time the system receives an update for the same incident indicating that the same incident perdures the severity number is decreased by one for that incident. This rule may not be applied for certain types of incident such as road work or weather related incidents heavy winds snow . Severity level is therefore a preferred embodiment of indicating an impact upon a traveler. The impact is assessed by severity or the magnitude of the disturbance typically associated with such an event.

The New Traveler Information Database is used as a data resource for pushing new traveler information to users and will be described in greater detail in reference to the Traveler Data Dispatcher . The Active Traveler Information Database contains information of incidents and other traveler data that is currently in effect and presumably impacts travelers.

An impact determination depends at least in part upon time indicated by the Independent Clock . That is the end time of an incident should not be significantly prior to the indicated time on the Clock . Other factors may play a role in the determination of whether traveler information is active. For example an incident may be reported for a location that is outside the geographical coverage of the system.

The Traffic Incident Processor ensures that the information in the Active Traveler Information Database is up to date this means that the contents of the Active Traveler Information Database contain quality data for publication by the Traveler Data Publisher .

The Traveler Data Dispatcher ensures that the New Traveler Information Database is up to date meaning that the contents of the New Traveler Information Database contain quality data for dispatch to subscribers. After the Traffic Incident Processor finishes processing an incident and incorporates associated information into the Active Traveler Information Database the complete information regarding the incident would typically be as follows 

The Traffic Incident Processor combines incident information with the Independent Clock and other domain knowledge information to manage add to enhance and correct the information. Below is an example of data correction wherein the data source inputs erroneous information for the location of an incident a latitude of 0 and a longitude of 0.

In preferred embodiments the Traffic Incident Processor detects that the latitude and longitude are erroneous and determines the proper latitude and longitude for the incident location 

The Traffic Congestion and Speed Processor typically operates similarly to the Traffic Incident Processor . Due to the nature of congestion and speed data the Traffic Congestion and Speed Processor may execute less frequently that the Traffic Incident Processor . As congestion and or speed data is considered somewhat erratic or inconsistent in preferred embodiments the Traffic Congestion and Speed Processor averages incoming data and applies filters to smooth the data and provide reliable information. A convenient filter for this purpose is a median filter wherein s.sub.t the speed at time t is obtained using the formula s median s wherein sare the speed values at times before and after t. In some embodiments the use of data averaging or smoothing causes a slight delay. Accordingly other smoothing algorithms or techniques may be employed to optimize the availability or other aspects of the data.

The Weather Processor examines weather data. If the data is new and different from the weather data already stored in the Active Traveler Information Database then the Weather Processor places the new data in the Active Traveler Information Database for the Traveler Data Publisher to use. The Weather Processor then scans input data for relevant keywords such as the names of counties. The Weather Processor may then create hyperlinks for those such that when a Web user on the Internet selects such a hyperlink the Web user is immediately presented with the weather data for that county. Such hyperlinks are preferably stored in an html file suitable for publication.

The Transit Processor and Public Events Processor also operate in a manner similar to the Traffic Incident Processor and the Traffic Congestion and Speed processor . For example the Transit Processor and Public Events Processor also adapt the frequency of execution to aspects of the incoming data. Typically the most frequent execution is needed for the Traffic Incident Processor because data relating to events such as accidents or other traffic disruptions typically have a short lifespan and must be disseminated as quickly as possible to be valuable or relevant to a user. In addition it has been found that weather data public event data and other similar types of data are generally provided by at least one data source and therefore may in some instances appear in other data streams. For example notice of a public event may be included in data from a traffic incident data source and thus treated by the Traffic Incident Processor as if the public event were an accident or other traffic disruption.

The Traveler Data Publisher is mainly responsible for publishing the quality data on the Internet thereby making the data accessible to the general public including potentially users of cell phones who can access websites using the WAP protocol. The TIDS also include a Traveler Data Dispatcher which sends or pushes quality data to a user.

The main difference between the Traveler Data Publisher and the Traveler Data Dispatcher is that the Traveler Data Dispatcher typically pushes new data to subscribers as soon as the information is known by the system whereas the Traveler Data Publisher publishes the data for users to actively retrieve it. Retrieval may be accomplished for instance with a web browser. The Traveler Data Publisher typically uses the Active Traveler Information Database and publishes its content while the Traveler Data Dispatcher uses the New Traveler Information Database so that only new information is being pushed to a subscriber. The New Traveler Information Database is then flushed upon each execution of the Traveler Data Dispatcher .

The Traveler Data Publisher typically comprises a Text Publisher an HTML Publisher and a Map Drawer .

The Text Publisher typically publishes incident data in complete text form which may be most appropriate for some individuals such as transportation or media professionals interested in obtaining all the available detail. The Text Publisher preferably sorts the incidents in decreasing rank of the severity number. The Text Publisher preferably groups incidents by counties.

The HTML Publisher preferably sorts incidents in decreasing rank of the severity number and groups incidents by counties similarly to the Text Publisher . The HTML Publisher also displays a different icon for each incident type or subtype. The HTML Publisher preferably tests for the presence of keywords to determine which icon preferably represents an incident. If no keyword is found an icon may be used instead.

A portion of html and javascript code may be used to implement a routine wherein when pointing to an icon detailed information about the underlying incident or event is displayed on the user s computer screen. An input mechanism may include without limitation a mouse or a stylus.

Although disclosed herein as an HTML Publisher it is recognized that some equivalent embodiments may not employ HTML. Therefore the HTML Publisher may also be referred to as a graphical icon publisher. Other aspects of publication are disclosed below.

The Map Drawer displays a map with incident speed and congestion data wherein at least one of the size and the color of overlying icons used to provide notice of traveler information is varied with an aspect of the associated traveler information. For example in one embodiment larger overlying icons are presented for indicating more severe incidents. In other embodiments a more intense and saturated color is used for more severe incidents.

In another embodiment graphical icons are drawn on the map. In this embodiment the graphical icons may convey information themselves. For example a graphical icon may include a symbol for a tow truck an event a fire truck or another symbol that is readily understood by the user. A key to graphical icon symbology may be included or otherwise available the user. An example of graphical icons with an accompanying key is provided in .

Preferably the icons appear in inverse order of severity most severe and larger first followed the least severe smaller . In this way if overlap occurs the smaller icons only partially obscure the larger ones and both are visible. Other embodiments of these teachings may be used.

Similarly with the HTML Publisher when the user s mouse goes over an incident icon detailed information about the incident is displayed on the user s computer screen. In case of overlap the most severe information is displayed. This is achieved by listing the most severe information first in the list of pop ups.

The Traveler Data Dispatcher dispatches new information to subscriber devices such as in non limiting examples cell phones pagers or email . The Traveler Data Dispatcher typically comprises a Matcher to Segments a Matcher to Severity and Time an Abbreviation Engine and a Transmitter SMTP SMS MMS .

An incident may be dispatched as appropriate to a given subscriber by the Matcher to Severity and Time respecting the subscriber and general requirements in terms of the incident severity.

In preferred embodiments the Commute Route Selector is accessible from the Internet. Users can choose to watch specific routes at certain times and on certain days. The user selecting a route is preferably presented with a selection of roadway or highway options with corresponding visual icons representing highway signs.

For purposes of illustration of route selection a limited sample of roadways for the San Francisco Bay Area is presented 

In preferred embodiments typically about 50 highways hence 100 directions are presented to the user on one page next to representative icons. The user is expected to choose one. If the user wishes to watch another highway then the user may select the OTHER highway.

The user is then requested to choose a specific roadway a time span for watching the specific roadway and a level of information severity for which they wish to subscribe. As an example a user may select criteria that equate to the following 

In preferred embodiments the foregoing selection is made using a combination of checkboxes selection boxes and text forms. If the OTHER highway was selected before then the user is requested to type in the name of a roadway in a text box.

Finally the user is requested to choose segments along the route of his choosing by either selecting segments individually or selected a beginning and end segment and requesting that all segments in between be selected. Segments are typically represented to the user as follows 

It is noted that internally to the TIDS each segment contains a unique location or identification code. The segment information may also include latitude and longitude values. The unique location code and geographic coordinates are preferably not revealed to the user.

The unique location code or segment ID as referred to herein is generally used for sorting and accessing data internally. That is location information is typically stored according to a segment ID as well as the user criteria for desired notifications. Unique location codes may also be referred to as user criteria location codes as these codes are preferably used for sorting and or other functions related to management of the traveler information.

The unique location codes or segment IDs are known for each segment of road or may be assigned for locations newly introduced to the system . Information corresponding to a unique location code i.e. newly introduced location may be entered manually or derived by the system . Derivation may include referencing to a map database or other database. For newly introduced locations such as subsegments the system preferably assigns new unique IDs automatically using conventional methods for assigning new unique IDs. In another embodiment unique IDs are added manually by a system administrator.

Once a first segment selection is completed the user is then offered to choose another route and follow the same steps to add more segments. The Commute Route Selector stores the information provided by the user in a User Database . Among other things the Commute Route Selector maintains a list of Active Segments that are actively watched by users.

If a user stops watching or changes the segment that he or she is watching then the Commute Route Selector modifies the Active Segment accordingly. This maintenance is preferably accomplished by a Maintenance Program that executes periodically when the system is least used such as once a day during the night. In some embodiments the Maintenance Program may also monitor the number of alerts being sent as well as user subscription information and may send email to subscribers requesting feedback or notification that a free trial period will end soon etc.

Active Segment are preferably stored by referencing the ID of the segment and the window of time the segment is being watched by a subscriber. In a first embodiment each segment ID with at least one subscriber watching is stored as a file on disk that can be quickly retrieved by the operating and file system of the computer once equipped with only a file name.

Hash tables may be also be used in an alternate embodiment instead of files. Hash tables reside in main memory instead of on the hard disk. A database system such as Oracle or Microsoft SQL Server or Microsoft MSDE may be used as well.

For example a segment ID may be 9000 for a given segment or 1 for a public place where public events affecting travelers may occur. In practice one operational system includes about 10 000 segments correlated to San Francisco Bay Area highways and about 20 public places such as 3COM Stadium PACBELL Park and the SHORELINE Amphitheater.

An example of the system for correlating a highway segment ID with users watching the segment is now provided. First in preferred embodiments the Segment Database contains a record that describes the segment. An example of a segment record maintained in the Segment Database is provided 

In this example the first number is the segment identification number the second and third numbers represent latitude and longitude. In this embodiment a corresponding data file is used to store user information. An example of the information that may be stored in file named 9000 is as follows 

In this embodiment as such as soon as traveler information is located on a segment and the segment ID is known the TIDS correlates the location of the traveler information with the segment ID and obtains user criteria from the data file named 9000. The system will then process notifications appropriately.

In another embodiment the times and days may be reduced to numerical codes. For instance each possible quarter of hour of a week may be encoded using a four digit code using between 1 and 7 for encoding the day 00 through 23 for encoding the hour and 0 through 3 for encoding quarters of hours. Each possible hour may be encoded with a three digit code. Such codes may be combined with the segment ID to form a combined ID. Matching combined IDs for traveler information and subscribers would guarantee that not only the segment is being watched by the subscriber but also at a time that matters to the subscriber.

In practice there is a trade off between the speed and efficiency that is required to match information to subscribers and the complexity and size of the encoding. The current system preferably uses the embodiment wherein the matching occurs on the segment ID first and a test is applied to determine whether an alert should be sent to the subscriber or not.

In another embodiment of the Commute Route Selector maintaining a list of Active Segment a user may communicate to an operator a verbal or written description of his or her commute route and commute times and the operator may enter the times and route as a list of segment IDs using the previously described method. The user may also communicate an origin address and time and a destination and time or an origin zip code and time and a destination zip code and time and conventional methods may be used to compute one or several routes between origin and destination.

In another embodiment of the Commute Route Selector maintaining a list of Active Segment a device or process may communicate a user s location speed and or heading back to the TIDS through use of a wireless device such as a transmitter or a transceiver. An example of a wireless device includes a Global Positioning System GPS receiver coupled with a cell phone.

There are means known in the art other than GPS to obtain position information. Notably for a cellular telephone user the cellular carrier may use time difference of arrival TDOA from cellular base stations for specifying the location of the cellular telephone.

The information provided by a GPS device supporting the NMEA standard would preferably be presented as indicated in the line below wherein the second value is the time in hours minutes and seconds in UTC or GMT time the fourth and fifth values represent latitude the sixth and seventh longitude the eight speed in kilometers per hour the ninth value represents the heading in degrees of an angle 

In preferred embodiments such information is typically updated every second. The latitude and longitude are first converted to decimal values using methods known in the art and are then compared with the segment latitude and longitude values of the Segment Database . A segment is typically associated with one latitude and one longitude value that is typically representative of the center of the segment. A conventional method for determining which segment the subscriber is on would compare the latitude and longitude of each segment with the current latitude and longitude compute a Euclidean distance in decimal latitude and longitude space and select the closest segment according to the distance. The problems with this conventional method is that the direction of travel is not taken into account as well as the interference between segments on unrelated routes that are close in latitude and longitude. An exemplary result of applying this conventional method as is follows after one second elapses the system wrongfully determines that the subscriber has changed direction 

The correct answer obtained using the following embodiment of the present invention is as follows the subscriber has moved to an adjacent highway segment in the subscriber s direction of travel.

The TIDS determines for each segment relationships with other nearby segments. For instance segment immediately precedes segment along highway CA 85 Southbound as Segment ends at FREMONT AVE and Segment starts at FREMONT AVE.

Using incident segment information the TIDS determines a vector in latitude longitude coordinates for the segment compute the distance to this vector using methods known in the art for the distance between a point and a vector and also compute a scalar product between the direction of travel and the segment direction.

The best segment match is obtained with a combination of a low distance and high scalar product with a preference for the same segment on which the subscriber already is or the following segment along the same highway as it is noted at 60 miles per hour the vehicle stays on the same segment for about 60 measurements of the GPS device. The current formula is preferably used to determine the best match Minimize A distance Wscalar product C ID flag wherein A B and C are constants that may be tuned and ID flag equals zero if the segment is the same and one if the segment is different for the current segment. For the first match as there is no current segment all ID flags are equal to zero. B may be set to zero in which case segments corresponding to negative scalar products must be eliminated.

A wireless device may communicate with the server hosting Active Segment via WAP HTTP SMS etc. A subscriber may thus subscribe to traveler information completely automatically without action from his or her part. The subscription uses a combination of wireless communication and geographic positioning informing a server of the segment on which the subscriber is the segments on which the subscriber is likely to be on in the near future and communicating this information to the Commute Route Selector for insertion in the list of Active Segment .

Such data automatically transmitted to the Commute Route Selector may be used for recording a usual commute route.

The percentage of traveling spent commuting is significant in the US thus the Commute Route Selector provided by the present invention is particularly beneficial to travelers that repetitively commute a known route. The facility provided by the Commute Route Selector therefore simplifies the process of gathering and or retaining the commute route information.

In case the user s commuting profile is already known to the system automated transmission of the user s current segment may locate the user along his or her commute route and provides for temporarily discarding the segments already traveled by the user for the purpose of sending alerts.

If the current route is not usual or if there is no particular need or want to record the route the information transmitted to the Commute Route Selector may still be used to dispatch current incidents in neighboring or upcoming segments. Such information may also be used to subscribe temporarily to alerts on upcoming segments based upon speed and time data. A combination of publishing of current incidents relevant for the Traveler Data Publisher and temporary subscription to dispatches relevant for the Traveler Data Dispatcher may be suitable so as to limit the number of back and forth communications between the user s wireless device and Commute Route Selector and server or computer on which the Commute Route Selector runs.

Finally the information collected may be used to compute travel time and speed as it is widely regarded that GPS data systems provide accurate time and speed estimates. The travel time and speed which are a form of traveler information and may be optionally published by the Traveler Data Publisher and dispatched by the Traveler Data Dispatcher if there is an agreement with the source of the data that such further publishing and dispatching are acceptable.

The level of severity of the information dispatched to the user may be changed at any time by the subscriber or the administrator of the system . The system may monitor the number of alerts that were sent to a user and beyond a certain number send an email to the user explaining that various levels of severity are possible. The email recipient may then click on either link to adapt the level of severity of the information to his or her choosing. An exemplary email is shown below explaining the current levels of severity supported by the system . Since an underlying system of numerical severity values is used any number of thresholds may be put in place corresponding to fewer severity values exposed to subscribers such as a three level system shown below. But an n level system where n is an arbitrary integer value is also possible. An exemplary e mail message follows 

1 Incidents that cause the closure of one or several lanes such as CHP Sigalerts serious accidents fires.

It is expected that the Data Sources are or will be available in different locations on different networks and on different computers. However it is conceivable to have several data sources on the same computer.

In preferred embodiments the Data Sources may communicate with the feeding programs and the Traveler Data Processor through the Internet however it is recognized that a large variety of communication requirements or protocols may exist and need to be overcome. However the techniques required for communicating data from the Data Sources are not discussed further herein.

In preferred embodiments the Traveler Data Processor Traveler Data Publisher Traveler Data Dispatcher Commute Route Selector and Maintenance Program execute on the same computer such as a server. In preferred embodiments the Active Traveler Information Database New Traveler Information Database Independent Clock Segment Database sub segment Database User Database and Active Segment are also located on the server. However provided these different components have functional access to all databases and other components they need to operate they may be located and executed on different computers. An example of a system configuration that is supportive of this implementation includes without limitation a network system.

Reliability is considered to be a critical factor for a successful traffic reporting system as well as cost effective operation. Therefore the invention disclosed herein was designed to achieve a high level of reliability without incurring prohibitive costs. The above described design choices have allowed at least one operational example of the invention disclosed herein to achieve significant reliability at a low cost.

The system disclosed herein decouples the operations of feeding and preprocessing the data subsystems and publishing the data on the Internet subsystem and delivering the data to subscribers using messages subsystem .

The Web Internet hosting industry has made available computers with significant computational power a large bandwidth to the Internet and software i.e web servers or application servers specifically designed to serve customers files or the result of executing programs through the Internet and Web browsers such as Netscape and Microsoft s Internet Explorer. Non limiting examples of web server or application servers are Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft Corporation s IIS and BEA Systems s WebLogic .

Because of the requirement to serve web pages on a continuous basis schedule the combination of hardware and software involved should be very reliable rarely unreachable or out of service.

Accordingly the Traveler Data Processor and Traveler Data Publisher use programs that may execute periodically on a server merging the data from different sources and preparing the data for publishing. These programs however typically do not fetch the data through the Internet but rather look periodically if new data was deposited made available on the server.

The operation of the Traffic Incident Processor is more clearly explained with reference to . Preferably Traffic Incident Processor reviews all the traffic incidents in the Active Traveler Information Database and rewrites it from scratch every time it is executed. Other sub processors may similarly process corresponding input data.

In Step the Traffic Incident Processor obtains the current time from the Independent Clock and determines an incident expiration threshold. In one embodiment the Traffic Incident Processor completes this step by subtracting a few minutes from the current time. As an example the Traffic Incident Processor subtracts about ten minutes. This embodiment subsequently provides for the publication of incidents a few minutes after their expected end time thus accounting for some of the potential errors in the expected end time.

Then available Data Sources for traffic incidents are processed in turn. The first Data Source is the Active Traveler Information Database which contains the list of incidents currently known and currently active. The subsequent Data Sources may be processed in any order for instance in the ordering implied in inside the Data Sources block.

In Step the next Data Source is opened for reading. The data from the Data Source is preferably located on the same computer where the Traffic Incident Processor operates as pushed using the Feeding Programs if this is not the case there are various techniques for retrieving the data from a remote location using either the Telnet or FTP network transfer protocols. Remote access is not preferred as this may incur a delay and a potential risk that the data or network connection may be unavailable.

In Step an incident is retrieved from a Data Source . In Step the system reads the incident ID of the incident. Preferably the system uses 6 digit incident IDs for an incident that is encountered by the system for the first time for instance 123456. If the system receives updates on that incident then a 9 digit system is used instead as follows the first update will have the ID 123456000 the second update 123456001 the third update 123456002 and so on.

The system may thus determine if the incident newly introduced or is an update to existing information. This determination is completed by testing the ID. In preferred embodiments the test ascertains if the ID is larger or equal to one million. In case the ID is larger or equal to one million then the system computes a base ID as follows Base ID ID 1000.

In Step the system processes the end time of the incident. In case the end time is not available a default duration is being added to the start time of the incident. If the start time of the incident is not available then the current time of the Independent Clock is used. The fixed duration is dependent upon the level of reliability that is attached to the Data Source and the type of incident. For instance an incident from data source CHP and relating to a PEDESTRIAN ON THE ROADWAY may be assigned a default duration of 20 minutes while an Accident reported by data source TravInfo which may have gone through further verification of the data may be assigned a default duration of 30 minutes. Default durations are typically determined when monitoring data sources and observing the incident durations reported when available.

In case the end time is at a date too far remote in the future such as more than two days after the current time this is assumed to be an error in the data except when the incident is ROAD WORK. The end time is then corrected by combining the current date with the incident end time.

In Step if the end time predates the incident expiry date then the incident is not inserted in the Active Traveler Information Database and the process returns to Step where the next incident is read.

Otherwise in Step the system reads the incident description. Upon reading and analyzing the description of the incident the system determines if the incident is a duplicate or not meaning that the same incident is already in the Active Traveler Information Database . A decision is then made to erase the incident from the Active Traveler Information Database or to erase the incident under current consideration.

Therefore the system evaluates whether an incident that appears to be a duplicate is a duplicate or is an update or correction to existing information. The system then saves the best data and discards the lesser quality version.

In Step the system may also apply a number of corrections to the incident description such as translating a number of abbreviations into plain English text. Examples 1 LANE is translated to FIRST LANE FROM LEFT 3 A is translated to AAA TOW REQUESTED.

In Step the system determines if the base ID of the incident as computed in Step already exists in the Active Traveler Information Database . If this is the case then the system takes note of the incident currently listed in the Active Traveler Information Database and with an identical base ID. The system then executes Step . Otherwise the system executes Step .

In Step the system determines if the incident is a duplicate. In preferred embodiments of duplicate incident testing the incident must end after the existing incident by at least 15 minutes. This test limits the risk of a data source automatically generating an excessive number of corrections within a few minutes which could result in a large number of updates being dispatches to subscribers with very few changes in the Information actually conveyed. Other aspects of the incident information may be tested as well. For example description and or location information may be tested.

In general tests designed with certain consideration in mind. For example one consideration is that some recurring incidents may be continuously updated with only the end time being different. Examples of these incidents include congestion or heavy traffic incidents weather conditions such as wind ice or snow. Otherwise minor differences in the description and location may occur as the incident is not yet completely known. It is suitable to wait a little before the information is completely confirmed and republish or redispatch the incident then.

If the incident is a duplicate the system returns to Step for reading of the next incident if not the system executes Step .

In Step the system computes a 9 digit ID from the incident ID. If the incident ID already has 9 digit then it is simply incremented by one. Otherwise if the incident ID has 6 digits then it is multiplied by 1000. The system then executes Step .

In Step the system determines whether the incident description already exists for some incident currently listed in the Active Traveler Information Database . If this is the case then the incident currently listed is dropped from the database in Step .

In Step the incident currently listed in the Active Traveler Information Database is dropped from the database and the system executes next Step .

In Step the incident is inserted into the Active Traveler Information Database . In Step the system computes latitude and longitude if missing or corrupted. This computation is completed using the Segment Database . In testing it was found that the method can locate on average 80 of the incidents with missing latitude and longitude.

Not all data sources provide a latitude and longitude together with the description of an incident. In the general case the system must infer a latitude and longitude from the specification of the intersection of two highways.

For each incident that is not geocoded i.e. that does not already contain latitude and longitude Information the address is decomposed into an inc ON highway and an inc AT highway for instance 

Before string comparisons are made some typical translations between a given data source and the Segment Database are applied. Exemplary translations are 

Note that these translations are applied to isolated words only. For example AVENUE is not translated to AVEENUE. In addition the following strings are prepared when the specification of a direction along inc ON was detected 

If there is a match with both the inc ON and inc AT and one pair ON AT for a segment in the Segment Database then the incident is determined to be geocoded and the latitude and longitude recorded in the database are used for the incident.

The match does not have to be exact this is implemented by going through the list of segments and intersections in the database and assigning a score to each potential match while retaining the match with the maximum score. The scoring system works in the following order from the maximum score to the minimum score 

The scores are only indicative and may be refined or new matching criteria may be entered. The scoring system requires a single pass through the database that contains local highways only and is typically rather small . In another embodiment the scores may be determined using a distance function between two strings such as the Levenshtein Distance known in the art.

On average at least 80 percent of the incidents lacking geographic coordinates may be geocoded and thus assigned a location on a map using the abovementioned process or equivalents thereto.

In Step the system determines whether there are more incidents for the current data source being considered. If this is the case then the system returns to Step and otherwise the system executes Step .

In Step the system determines whether there are more data sources to be considered. If this is the case the system returns to Step and otherwise terminates awaiting for a next scheduled execution.

The Matcher to Severity and Time is preferably implemented with the Steps through . The Abbreviation Engine and transmitter are implemented in Step .

In Step the next incident from the Active Traveler Information Database is retrieved. If there are no more incidents the process ends.

In Step the system determines whether the ID of the incident already exists in the traveler Information database that was previously active. Previously active means that the incident was active and published in the previous iteration of the system . If this is the case then the system returns to Step or otherwise proceeds to Step .

In Step the system determines whether the ID exists in the list of the last few incidents. If this is the case the system returns to Step and otherwise executes Step . Preferably the last few incidents are a list of IDs of the incidents that the system has most recently encountered.

In Step the incident is considered to be new and is inserted in the New Traveler Information Database . The incident is also set to be the first in the last few incidents list and the last incident of that list is removed.

In a majority of the data sources for traveler incidents the incident is reported on one highway or transit route in spatial relation to an intersection with another route or stop such as Before after at just north of etc.

As such in Step the Matcher to Segments attempts to interprets the location of the incident as an ON AT pair such as ON I 580 E AT GROVE WAY wherein the AT component of the location may potentially be missing. Preferably the system looks for the keywords ON and AT but also for JUST NORTH OF OR JNO JUST SOUTH OF or JSO etc. and as many similar ways of specifying an intersection location as possible.

The system then builds a first hash table mapping the ON AT location for segments of the Segment Database to segment ID and well as a second hash table mapping the ON END segment location to segment IDs. For instance for the segment CA 85 S FREMONT AVE HOMESTEAD RD the ON AT key for the first hash table is CA 85 S FREMONT AV and the ON END key for the second hash table is CA 85 S HOMESTEAD RD.

Both keys are mapped to the segment ID 10001 in the hash tables. Preferably both hash tables are built ahead of time because they are the same for all the incidents being treated and only depend upon the Segment Database . Step is executed next.

In Step an ON AT key is built for the incident in the same fashion as for the list of segments in Step . If there is an exact match in the first hash table then it is determined that the incident is matched to a segment and the system executes Step next for instance if the ON AT key is CA 85 S FREMONT AV then there is an exact match in the first hash table and the incident is determined to be on Segment . Otherwise if there is an exact match with the second hash table the system executes Step as well.

Otherwise in Step the key is reversed meaning that the AT ON key is built for the incident. If there is an exact match with the first hash table the system executes Step . Otherwise if there is an exact match with the second hash table the system executes Step as well.

Otherwise in Step the system goes through the Subsegment Database . A subsegment is a portion of a highway segment that does not fully extend from the segment origin or AT to the segment destination or END . A subsegment may simply be an intersection wherein the END information is unavailable or even simply a place wherein both the AT and END information is unavailable. But in all cases the subsegment must be associated with a reliable latitude and longitude. Subsegments are particularly useful because incidents may be reported inside a segment as opposed to a segment endpoint. As an example of subsegment one segment along US 101 S is defined between MONTEREY RD and CA 25 and is assigned a latitude and longitude values of 36.973988 and 121.555046. The latitude and longitude of a segment are typically representative of the center of the segment. One particular subsegment of this segment would be 60235 on US 101 S at CASTRO VALLEY RD with a latitude of 36.967833 and a longitude of 121.552667. A subsegment is typically associated with a numeric ID that distinguishes it from a segment typically associated with a lower number ID. A subsegment is also associated with the ID of the larger segment it belongs to 12345. A subsegment may also be created for a new spelling or denomination of an existing segment endpoint.

In Step the system tests the incident location as an ON AT key with the subsegment Database. If an exact match is found then Step is executed next otherwise Step is executed.

In Step the system attempts to create a new subsegment corresponding to the current incident as no corresponding segment or subsegment could be found so far.

For instance an incident may be reported on US 101 S at CASTRO VALLEY RD with a latitude of 36.967833 and a longitude of 121.552667.

The system computes the distance in latitude longitude space between the incident location and each road segment along the same road of the incident Only the road segments on US 101 S are searched in the previous example. Searching only those types of segments is easily performed by matching the string in the ON portion of the segment description . The closest road segment is retained. The distance in latitude and longitude is then approximately translated into a Euclidean distance using the following formula 0.01 degrees of latitude or longitude correspond to about 1 Kilometer.

If the Euclidean distance in approximate kilometers is sufficiently small about one kilometer then the incident is determined to occur on a subsegment of the segment and the incident is determined to be localized on the segment. The system then proceeds to Step . Otherwise the system returns to Step and considers the next incident.

In Step the subsegment determined in Step is added to the subSegment Database and the system proceeds to Step .

Another advantage of the above described methods for matching incidents to segments is that in case Information is only partially available such that the END or even AT and END of an incident the system may still be able to find an exact match in the Segment Database considering the missing Information as an empty string and performing a matching on the remaining available Information. Since other parts of the system are dedicated to computing latitude and longitude of an incident when such latitude and longitude are unavailable in most cases through Steps and incidents may be matched to a segment.

Another advantage of the present invention is that the incident databases gradually increase in accuracy as more and more incidents are processed subsegments are being continuously created and the matching of incidents becomes increasingly flexible.

In Step the system examines the next user from the list of users subscribed for alerts relating to the matched segment. If there is no more user subscribed for the matched segment the process ends.

In Step if the severity of the present incident matches the level of severity that the user has requested for the segment specifically if the severity number is lower as lower numbers correspond to more severe incidents in the present invention the system proceeds to Step and otherwise the system returns to Step .

In Step the system examines the predicted window of time for the incident and determines if there is any intersection between the predicted window of time for the incident and the window of time the user watches the segment for. This is preferably performed by making comparisons of precedence between dates. Determining whether two windows of time overlap is analogous to determining whether two linear segments overlap in one dimension and the techniques are generally known.

If the two windows of time overlap the system proceeds to Step and otherwise the system returns to Step .

In Step the system prepares a message by means of compiling and especially abbreviating the Information and dispatches a message to the user on the user preferred address.

In preferred embodiments the system preferably interprets any delivery address cellular telephone pager email as an email address. The system looks in a lookup database for converting a wireless provider name to a valid email address suffix publicized by the wireless provider. For instance a wireless device may be mapped using a convention such as wirelessdevicenumber mobile.wirelessdeviceprovider.net in the lookup database. The lookup database is compiled by collecting addresses publicized by wireless providers.

The system stores a primary and a secondary address for each user which may be the same. The user may attach either the primary or the secondary address to any segment that the user watches. For instance a user may want to receive alerts on a cell phone primary address on her way to work in the morning and at work on her company e mail system secondary address right before she takes her car to return home.

To send a text message on a cellular telephone the message must be typically abbreviated to fit in 100 to 160 characters depending upon the wireless provider. The following techniques have been implemented in the Abbreviation Engine for this purpose. Abbreviation engine therefore provides a benefit of formatting traveler information for dissemination to systems with certain formatting requirements as well as a separate benefit of enhancing information transfer. That is as a user becomes accustomed to a set of abbreviations the user is able to more quickly read and digest the traveler information that if the traveler information were spelled out in long form.

Therefore it is considered that the following embodiments of the Abbreviation Engine and the terms used in association with the Abbreviation Engine are not limiting and only exemplary of how an Abbreviation Engine or equivalent technique may be used in conjunction with traveler information.

At a high level only 6 types of information are transmitted in the message 1 email address of sender 2 location where the problem occurs 3 window of time for the incident 4 incident type and subtype 5 status of the incident 6 description of the incident at least the beginning thereof .

The origin email address is necessary for the Information to be sent at all through the Internet. The smallest possible valid email address for the business is preferably used.

The location of the incident as an intersection is obtained by juxtaposing the two roadways participating in the intersection with an sign in between. Only the first 12 characters are kept and any trailing space is removed. An example is provided 

The begin and end time displayed for instance as at10 00 PM til11 PM the days are eliminated assuming it is today as the information is dispatched very quickly and the date may be carried elsewhere in the header of the message by the provider .

Type and SubType of incident a look up table of abbreviations for single words is used. Examples of abbreviations and corresponding terms are provided 

Once these substitutions are done the first 15 characters are kept and any trailing spaces are removed.

Description to determine the available character count the number of characters already used in information types 1 through 5 above is subtracted from 160 after removing codes special symbols and potentially using further abbreviations. Trailing spaces are removed.

The final message may be presented as follows I 80 W POWELL ST at5 20 PM til5 47 PM disabled veh rt lane blkd WB I 80 just after Powell St

Representing about 90 characters automatically abbreviated from fairly extended and detailed incident information which originated in a prior art system as the following 

The message is typically dispatched to its destination email via an SMTP server however connecting to an SMS gateway would also be possible. A wireless provider will typically operate an SMTP gateway which will then transmit the message to the recipient.

Preferably the message header incorporates a number of notification requests following the Delivery Service Notification DSN standard. In this way the System is typically notified of whether the message was received read or deleted before being read and the time of delivery. Not all gateways respond to the DSN standard and therefore the system cannot rely on receiving any or all of the notifications. An expiration date or time tag may also be added indicating a time at which the information will stop being relevant in case the delivery would be late. Some e mail clients such as Microsoft Outlook acknowledge the expiry date.

Periodically a program such as the Diagnostic Program is launched to examine the proper functioning or the health of the system . In one embodiment the program examines the logging files. The Diagnostic Program looks at the numbers of incidents published. The Diagnostic Program determines whether there is an abnormal pattern in the numbers and origin of incidents produced. For a given source of data the number of new incidents per day varies from day to day but almost never goes down to zero. Exemplary statistics are as follows x

As incidents become static and new incidents are just being reported the exact number of incidents reported at a given time is necessarily subject to some minor variations. This test compounds these variations over a period of one hour or so.

If statistic D is high it is very likely that the data source is healthy. D is a positive value adding compounding all absolute values of the differences between the number of incidents reported at a given time and the number of incidents reported in the previous iteration.

E is a positive or negative value derived from adding all the differences between the number of incidents reported at a given time and the number of incidents reported in the previous iteration.

If any test or combination of tests indicates a problem a simple algorithm such as the exemplary one below is used to detect the problem. An email message containing the statistics and the algorithm s guess is dispatched to the administrator s as well as individuals responsible for the data source. In addition a message indicating technical problems may be displayed on the publishing side. The later is reserved for situations where the number of published incidents is zero .

One example of criteria that is applied to decide whether there is a problem on the server or not is a test that evaluates if A is equal to zero then check whether F is less than a minimum threshold. If this is the case then a preliminary determination is made that there is a problem meaning that in addition of no new incidents coming in the currently published number is getting very low or E is less than a minimum negative threshold meaning that the pool has been decreasing in size .

If this preliminary determination is not made then the tests stop and no email message is sent or problem reported to an administrator.

If this preliminary determination is made then the system checks whether B equals zero. If this is the case then the algorithm returns an estimation of the problem as probably new data cannot be transmitted to the server . Otherwise if D equals zero then the algorithm returns probably new data cannot be transmitted to the server Otherwise if F equals zero and B is greater than zero some incidents reported but none published Incidents are transmitted to the server but unpublishable .

A value for G of close to one is a good indication that the system works well overall. If G is low but D is high there is an indication of problems on the server publishing side. System diagnostics may be completed on a predetermined schedule or as required.

The System provides facilities for the management of the user preferences and subscriptions. The following Table 2 lists exemplary information that may be displayed by the System for each user the user s email address the user s first name whether the user s email address was confirmed by the user s response to an email A potential referral code whether or not the user is currently subscribed to alerts and a potential date of subscription end.

A super user of the System may view and update the profile of a user. A super user may access a user profile by selecting a displayed link to a user profile displayed in Table 2. A super user may thus enter user preferences manually in case the user would prefer or request a super user to do so. A super user may also subscribe and unsubscribe a user as well as add or subtract a period of time to the subscription. A super user may also compose and send an email message to one or more users or compose and send a text message to one or more user cell phones or pagers.

In a preferred interface for such super user actions the super user checks one or more check boxes in the select column of Table 2 and then activates one button of a collection of buttons labeled as follows 

It is considered that these features are only exemplary of additional features that may be available to a super user and are therefore not limiting of the invention herein.

When displaying a map of traffic incidents conventional systems typically use instead a single type of incident icon and the user must inquire further to determine the type and importance of the incident. Other conventional systems use no more than three or four different icons which is not as precise as in the present invention. When displaying a list of incidents conventional systems use a textual depiction without displaying a specific icon representation for each specify type of incident. The system as disclosed herein uses a graphical icon publisher wherein classes of traveler information are displayed according to certain graphical icons. Non limiting examples of classes of traveler information that may be grouped under a single graphical icon type are given above in Table 1.

Referring to in a List of Incidents graphically depicted in the HTML language and viewable using any HTML or Web browser incidents are displayed for each county with more severe incidents being displayed on the top.

When displaying a Map the present invention uses larger Graphical Icons for more severe incidents and typically uses more intense and saturated colors for depicting more severe incidents. The system may thus represent a significant number of incident types such as ten twelve or more and a viewer may readily assess the type and importance of the incident with a single look at the overall Map . The icons also differ in shape square rectangle that is wider in the horizontal direction rectangle that is wider in the vertical direction.

Referring to a map in the system is capable of representing a large number of incidents at the same time as a large number of incidents typically occur at the same time in a large metropolitan area such as the San Francisco Bay Area.

In preferred embodiments Graphical Icons on a Map are also drawn in inverse order of severity most severe and larger first followed the least severe smaller . In this way if overlap occurs the smaller icons only partially obscure the larger ones and both are visible.

When the user s mouse goes over an incident icon detailed information about the incident is displayed on the user s computer screen. In case of overlap the most severe information is displayed. In preferred embodiments this is achieved by listing the most severe information first. In further embodiments the size of the Graphical Icons in general may be reduced so as not to obscure other Graphical Icons or the Map

In these embodiments the size of each Graphical Icon may increased as a user points to the Graphical Icon thereby enabling the user to obtain a better view of the graphic. This feature may be used with or without the presentation of detailed information.

A conventional Cellular Phone receiving traveler information produced and dispatched by the present invention is also shown on . Using the Abbreviation Engine of the Traveler Information Dispatcher the most important information about the incident may be entirely displayed on the small screen of a conventional cellular telephone and this invention allows a user to understand the location specific nature begin and end time of an incident presumably affecting the user in his or her traveling pattern.

Understanding the location duration and nature of the incident does not require extensive manipulation or text scrolling of the Cellular Phone .

In Step the incidents from the Active Traveler Information Database are sorted in decreasing order of severity for a specific area such as within a county.

In Step a graphical icon is chosen for an incident depending upon the type subtype and description of the incident. This is preferably accomplished by searching the type subtype and description of the incident for keywords and keyword combinations that preferably correspond to a graphical icon. For instance Collision or Accident combined with Ambulance or Injury or Injuries typically corresponds to an INJURY ACCIDENT icon.

In Step detailed information for an incident is determined using the incident s type subtype status location time and detailed description. The detailed description is preferably displayed as a user points to the incident icon for instance using a mouse or other pointing device.

In Step geographical coordinates for the incident are being retrieved when available. If geographical coordinates are available and designate a location inside a map then Step is executed next. Otherwise Step is executed.

In Step an icon is being embedded in a map at a location corresponding to geographical coordinates. The location is determined by converting latitude and longitude data to pixel picture element coordinates in the map. Latitude and longitude are converted using the latitude and longitude at the map center knowledge of how many pixels in the map correspond to a degree of latitude and longitude deviation and using conventional trigonometry. An icon is embedded at the pixel coordinates by copying the icon into the map. Detailed information for the incident is also being embedded in an html file. The system then executes Step .

In Step graphical icons are being chosen for routes intersecting at the location of the incident. Graphical icons are determined by creating an icon name from a route name A route name is provided in the incident location information. Then it is determined whether the icon name corresponds to an existing icon in which case the icon is chosen. Otherwise no icon is chosen. As an incident location is typically described as an intersection of two highways two graphical icons are typically chosen.

In Step an html table is prepared for formatting the various elements of an incident information. The table allows to position an incident icon route icons the type of incident and other incident information in a manner suitable for clear exposition as illustrated in a List of Incidents . Table gridlines are preferably invisible to the viewer.

In some embodiments of the present invention real time or predictive traveler information may be provided. This information may be utilized in the context of for example routing whereby an optimal route is supplied to a user. The optimal route is dependent upon factors such as real time and or predictive traffic congestion. This predictive data may be representative of archived data over a variable window of time to reflect certain seasonal or other cyclical variations.

For example forecasts may be generated for a given route based upon a calendar of events the time and day of the week and or sensor data providing the speed of traffic along portions of a particular road highway or other thoroughfare. Through the combination of real time speed information with routing computations a profile may be generated wherein the expected travel time for any route for a reasonable period of time is provided.

In such an embodiment a routing engine may take into account real time speed information as well as predictive speed based upon calculations derived from predictive congestion models as they relate to historical and predicted traffic patterns. The routing engine may utilize an embodiment of the A search technique also referred to as the heuristic search technique . The A technique uses estimates on distances to a destination to guide vertex selection in a search from the source. The A technique is further described in Microsoft Research Technical Report MSR TR 2004 24 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present predictive traveling embodiment further utilizes a user interface for selecting a start point end point and any intermediate waypoints. The user interface further allows for a determination of whether the routing engine should compute a fastest route or a shortest route.

In the aforementioned routing engine all road nodes and segments that are relevant for routing are loaded into a shared memory. The shared memory overcomes the difficulties that the A algorithm would otherwise encounter in searching through a large number of road segments to find an optimal route those road segments being fetched from a database.

Effective utilization of the A algorithm further requires the specification of a weight for each aforementioned road segment as well as an estimate of the total weight to reach the destination. Exemplary segment weights include segment length segment travel time using a segment speed for a base map segment travel time using speed from real time traffic flow information e.g. sensors toll tags and the like and segment travel time using predicted speed for a given day or time of day. These segments weights are exemplary in nature and other weights are envisioned as being within the scope of the present invention. Segment travel time is obtained by dividing segment length by segment speed.

With regard to the aforementioned road segments an array of historical speed measurements are maintained for example one for each ten minute interval in a day thereby resulting in 144 such intervals. Further these intervals are maintained for each day of the week seven such days holiday departure and return dates two such days and other potentially meaningful days as they pertain to traffic conditions e.g. known road closures or special high traffic events such as sporting events. At least 144.times.9 historical speed values are maintained for each segment.

Each time a new speed measurement is available for a road segment that is a sensor reading is obtained and validated to be a correct measurement the historical speed value corresponding to that segment 10 minute interval and day is retrieved and is updated according to the following exemplary formula historical speed value 1 p historical speed value p new speed measurement. By adjusting the p value the window of time for which the historical speed value pertains is influenced.

For example with a new speed measurement available every three minutes and wherein p 0.02 three new speed measurements typically contribute for a given 10 minute interval. After one week the influence of a new speed measurement is multiplied by 1 p 0.94. After 4 weeks the speed multiplication factor is 1 p 0.78. After eight weeks the factor is 1 p 0.62. As such a given speed measurement gradually loses its relevance over time and is replaced by newer speed measurements.

Certain embodiments of the present invention allow a timestamp to be recorded for each segment thereby recording the time of latest speed update. After a certain duration the historical values for the segments can all be invalidated as they have become too old to be relevant and or accurate. In this manner the historical speed values are typically updated slightly every three minutes.

Due to the quantity of data to be processed the update preferably occurs within computer memory rather than through accessing database software on storage media although data can be stored or backed up on a regular basis e.g. once a day .

As shown in using the historical values stored as explained a travel time profile may be computed as follows. In step the start and finish nodes of a route are retrieved. The routing algorithm is then used in step to compute a route from start to finish including retrieval of an ordered list of road segments.

In step on a given day for which a travel profile is requested 10 minute intervals are iterated. In step the 10 minute intervals are converted to a time of day. For example interval zero might correspond to midnight while interval would correspond to 10 minutes before midnight i.e. 23 50 .

In step starting with a travel time of zero the ordered list of road segments is iterated. For each segments the time to travel that segment is computed by dividing the segment length with a historical speed value for that segment and corresponding to the current time of day. In step the resulting time to travel the segment is added to the current time of day as well as pre existing travel time.

In step once the ordered list of segments is completely processed the travel time is obtained. By repeating this process for each 10 minute interval on a given day a travel time is obtained for each such interval this time can be graphed.

The end result is a routing computation wherein the following information may be reported a a route length b an ideal trip duration if the selected route is un congested that is prescribed speeds on highways as reported in the aforementioned base map and c real time trip duration that takes into account current congestion. Congestion may be real time or predictive based upon a particular time of day e.g. rush hour or traffic related to a particular event such as planned construction holiday traffic or a sporting event . An exemplary routing computation report interface reflective of this information is shown in .

The routing computation report interface reflects a particular route the distance to traverse that route the current travel time and the ideal travel time . Route may be titled based upon a particular destination e.g. Sacramento or Seattle or the nature of the point to point route e.g. home 2 work . Route may also be titled based upon for example the actual route traveled e.g. highway CA 85 . Distance is the distance between the point of origin and the point of termination. Current and ideal travel times correspond to the reported information described above.

The routing computation report interface further allows for the creation of a new route or the modification of a pre existing route through for example hyperlinks in an HTML based interface.

The number of points may increase based on the particular magnification of the map . For example a regional map may reflect only a few points whereas a city map may reflect a larger number of points in that particular points of interest as they pertain to starting terminating or passing through on a particular journey are more easily identified. Points may be selected through the use of a mouse e.g. point and click or through the use of a keyboard e.g. through tabbing or via any other means of selection e.g. through use of a stylus on a handheld device .

The particular map displayed may be controlled through a drop down menu . Drop down menu may reflect a list of all available maps. In the present example drop down menu reflects the selection of a map of the Seattle Wash. area. The route being generated through the selection of points may be named through the use of naming tool . The name of the route as provided through naming tool will correspond to route as illustrated in .

Route creation interface further offers the ability to automatically generate a return trip route through return trip selection tool without having to manually re select points in a reverse order offering added convenience to a user of interface . Once a user has generated a route named the route through naming tool and determined whether they wish to automatically generate a return trip through return trip selection tool the route may be saved by clicking on the button . By clicking on the button the route will be uploaded to routing computation report interface . Alternatively the route may be disposed of by clicking on the button .

As a user navigates about the map and more particularly points in route creation interface information corresponding to a highway exit or other position may be rendered in the interface as is reflected in . Once two points have been selected selected points a route is computed by the routing engine from the first point to the second point and displayed as a part of the selected route and also displayed on the map . If a user has utilized the aforementioned return trip selection tool the second route is entered into the system simultaneously in the opposite direction of travel.

As a user continues to select points the last point entered along the route is considered the destination with all other intermediate points deemed to be waypoints. Selected points may be promoted demoted or even deleted as to alter the course of the route. For example in a selected route is displayed wherein four selected points are shown as a part of that route SR 3 I 5 I 405 and SR 522 . The numbering of those selected points is graphically illustrated on map . A promotion arrow next to each selected point offers promotion of the point whereas a demotion arrow offers alternative demotion of the selected point as a start destination or waypoint. A deletion X offers the aforementioned ability to eliminate a selected point from the selected route .

Once a selected route has been established through interface the routing engine determines travel time by compounding the weights of the segments that compose the shortest or fastest route. Depending upon the weights that are used e.g. ideal speed speed from real time congestion speed from predicted congestion different travel times may be reported.

For example in the selected route is shown with corresponding route title distance and travel time information current and ideal . As shown by the temporal disparity between current travel time 2 h 56 m and 40 s versus ideal travel time 1 h 47 m and 35 s this route is by no means an expedient route due to high traffic volume as may be indicated by road colorations . Road colorations may be reflective of high traffic e.g. red colorations or smooth uninterrupted traffic flow e.g. green colorations . Not all points on selected route map may evidence a road coloration as some portions of road or thoroughfare may not allow for calculation of real time or predictive traffic conditions e.g. no sensors or traffic reporting .

In the instance that the selected route is not the fastest route a user may presented with a as illustrated in . Upon selection of the the routing engine will re calculate a route between the point of origin and selected destination and display the same as shown in the fastest route map of . If the routing engine has already calculated the fastest route e.g. in a parallel calculation with the selected route then the new route is merely displayed. In some embodiments the fastest route. or certain portions thereof may be overlaid with the selected route . It should be noted that in some instances the shortest route may be the fastest route notwithstanding existing traffic delays.

In some embodiments of the present invention an alert may be sent to a user if the delay in a selected route exceeds an optional user specified threshold e.g. 30 minutes more than the ideal time or current travel time exceeds two hours total . Generation of the alert would be a result of the routing engine continuously calculating congestion and travel times relative the user s selected route . Such an alert may be sent to for example a cellular phone utilizing SMS or to a user s computer via an automatically generated e mail message. Once the user is alerted as to the change in traffic conditions and or travel time the selected route may be altered e.g. selection of the fastest route .

An alert interface is illustrated in . A user is first offered the choice of a particular device where the alert is to be sent. This drop down menu may list a variety of devices such as cell computer PDA pager and so forth. The user is then offered the choice of determining to which route the alert will pertain. For example a user may only be concerned with the travel route home from work so that they may be home in time for a family event. Routes as reflected in this drop down menu would correspond to those routes previously referenced in . The user is further given the option of receiving alerts as they pertain to traffic conditions on particular days and between particular times through a series of check boxes and drop down menus respectively. The user is further given the option to determine whether to be alerted as to particular incidents or changes in travel speed .

For example particular incidents may be associated with severe incidents that might block a lane of traffic e.g. an overturned semi or of any and all incidents e.g. stalled cards and or minor fender benders . Alternatively a user may wish to be alerted as to changes in travel speed regardless of the cause i.e. the particular incident causing the delay . In these instances the user may wish to be alerted whenever their travel time changes by a particular time.

Further embodiments of the present invention allow for animated road traffic reports whereby realistic traffic animation based on real time flow and incidents are displayed to a user. Such animated road traffic reports may be mapped on satellite imagery in conjunction with the publishing system described herein. An exemplary animated road traffic report is illustrated in .

The exemplary animated road traffic report illustrated in comprises satellite images of a traffic area . Traffic area may be for example a particular intersection of roads highways or other transportation thoroughfares e.g. train or subway tracks a particular area surrounding a city e.g. a 20 square mile area surrounding Sacramento Calif. or a particular traffic hot spot e.g. a section of highway undergoing construction . Traffic areas may also be artificial areas of particular focus at a particular time. For example a traffic area may begin as the aforementioned 20 square mile area surrounding Sacramento but may be enlarged focused in with regard to a particular region in that 20 square mile region i.e. an enlarged area allowing for increased viewing ease . Traffic areas are referenced in a non restrictive sense and are meant to include any particular area wherein particular traffic patterns may be of present interest.

Satellite images of the traffic area may be acquired from any variety of sources. For example satellite imagery may be obtained from a proprietary satellite orbiting the Earth. Satellite imagery may also be obtained directly from commercial satellites orbiting the Earth. Satellite imagery may also be obtained from commercial vendors with access to satellite equipment. Satellite imagery may also be obtained from for example government entities such as the U.S. Geological Survey or U.S. Department of Defense. The particular source of satellite imagery is irrelevant so long as the satellite images of a particular traffic area allow for the overlay of traffic animation.

Satellite image may be of varying detail. For example certain satellite images may provide detailed geographic information or simply provide the most fundamental of satellite images. Satellite images may also be manipulated to aid in generating three dimensional information. For example one dimensional satellite images may be processed in the context of other geographical information e.g. altitude information to generate a three dimensional satellite image that reflects information along an X Y and Z axis like the satellite image shown in the animated traffic report of .

Animated traffic report further comprises thoroughfare images . Thoroughfare images are computer enhanced images that follow the natural path of real world traffic thoroughfares e.g. roads highways subway train etc. . The textured three dimensional representation of landscape of the particular traffic area aligns with and provides the three dimensional coordinates for the roads i.e. a thoroughfare that are animated and overlaid on the satellite image .

For example animated traffic report illustrates a thoroughfare image of Interstate Highway . This computer enhanced image aids the viewed with regard to identifying highlighting and following the course of Interstate 5 in that the satellite image by itself may not provide a clear view of the highway which may be the result of poor imaging cloud cover or other atmospheric anomalies e.g. smog or haze or as may occur due to natural geographic formations e.g. a road traversing a mountain and the particular angle of the satellite image not allowing for a top plan view of the particular thoroughfare or manmade formations e.g. tunnels through a mountain range . In some embodiments of the present invention especially those with high quality satellite images thoroughfare images may not be necessary.

Animated traffic report may also comprise thoroughfare identifiers . Thoroughfare identifiers identify particular thoroughfares or thoroughfare images . For example Interstate 5 is identified through a graphical representation of a readily recognized Interstate highway sign with the appropriate highway number applied to the sign. Similarly California State Highway is identified by a thoroughfare identifier resembling a readily recognized California state highway sign with the appropriate highway number applied to the sign. Smaller thoroughfares e.g. city streets exits specially named sections of highways or city streets may also be associated with a thoroughfare identifier .

Thoroughfare identifiers may be rendered in such a way that they resemble a street or highway sign that might be found in the real world relative the particular thoroughfare. Thoroughfare identifiers need not be limited to any particular format and may be adjusted to resemble the particular signage format of a particular state or region or any other format as may be desired by a party operating the present system.

Animated traffic report may also comprise structure identifiers . Structure identifiers are graphic representations of certain structures within the traffic area . For example in the Sacramento Capital Building and the Tower Bridge are rendered in the traffic area as structure identifiers . Structure identifiers aid in providing context to the traffic map and various thoroughfares in addition to improving the graphic realism of the animated road traffic report . For example if a user were informed that there exists a particular traffic condition on State Highway this information is generally useless absent some sort of relative positional context. If the user is shown the same traffic condition but near a structure identifier representative of the State Capitol this information may be of use to the user should they need to travel to or near the state capitol building.

In an exemplary animated road traffic report roads and thoroughfares are decomposed into segments and the average real time speed of traffic as provided by the various data sources of the present invention are mapped to the segment. For example Interstate 5 may constitute a road segment. Further particular portions of Interstate 5 may constitute a road segment e.g. the area between exit X and Y may constitute a first segment and the area between exit Y and Z may constitute a second segment . These road segments are then color coded relative particular traffic data for that road segment.

For example the southbound traffic area between 12.sup.th Avenue and Martin Luther King Boulevard as illustrated in the present animated road traffic report is color coded red indicating slow traffic. Northbound I 5 however is color coded green indicating free moving traffic. Meanwhile a portion of I 80 is color coded orange indicating a mild slow down but not to the extent of for example the slow down between 12.sup.th Avenue and Martin Luther King Boulevard which is more indicative of an accident. In some embodiments of the present invention traffic too is color coded .

The visualization of traffic conditions in the present animated road traffic report combines a traffic model the current state of traffic as provided with speed measurements for the road segments and a three dimensional representation of landscape comprising topography textured with satellite or aerial imagery as well as three dimensional landmarks.

The traffic model comprises a number of vehicles which may be represented abstractly such as through using triangles in or using faithful three dimensional representations of a car like those shown in . The vehicles are initially positioned along the road segments proportionally to the density of traffic if known. For each frame of the animation each vehicle s position speed and acceleration are being updated. Each vehicle s new acceleration is determined by the vehicle s current state the current state of traffic for the segment where the vehicle is located and the acceleration speed and position of the vehicle ahead.

During the three dimensional animated certain rules are applied. First if the distance to the next vehicle is less than a following distance and the vehicle is moving faster than the next vehicle then the vehicle visually decelerates. If the speed is otherwise below the segment speed the vehicle visually accelerates. If the speed is above the segment speed the vehicle visually decelerates. In all other instances there is no change in speed.

Acceleration and deceleration are computed by mitigating average acceleration and deceleration with vehicle specific random factors. Because real traffic has a random component this randomization provides a realistic appearance to the traffic model and the resulting visualization.

The traffic model is adapted to comply with the current traffic conditions whereby each vehicle s color is set to match the color of the road segment on which it currently is located. Each vehicle s speed is influenced in the model so as to match the segment s speed as soon and as accurately as possible.

Vehicle s depicted in the animated traffic report may also be squashed and stretched proportionally to correspond to acceleration or deceleration of the vehicle. These proportional adjustments are visually intuitive with regard to the process of backing up to comply with a specific speed.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention real time traffic data maybe combined with various routing capabilities to determine travel times of common and alternative routes. In this manner mapping routing and personal preferences may be integrated to enable efficient archiving and time series forecasting such that the travel time for a particular route or series of routes may be forecast based upon observed conditions and other factors.

Through observing the mapping of common incidents and traffic flow incidents are qualified with respect to the current travel time on a route where the incident occurs and in the vicinity of the incident. A determination of whether the travel time is significantly affected from usual travel conditions over that route is also made.

In the instance that an incident is determined to significantly affect travel time an embodiment of the present invention identifies or promotes that incident to significant incident status. The significant incident may be highlighted graphically and or reported to users via for example e mails SMS messages and the like. Significant incidents may also be reported to traffic broadcasters in order to disseminate that data to drivers who may not subscribe to the present system e.g. via a radio broadcast .

An embodiment of the present invention will periodically review the traffic patterns relative to the significant incident and determine whether the incident still affects travel time. If the incident is no longer adversely affecting travel time adversity being a variable determinable by a user of the present system the incident may be demoted to regular status and is no longer displayed on interface nor are reports delivered to users or other individuals. The nature of the incident the period of time the incident affected travel flows and the degree to which traffic was affected may all be recorded in a traffic database.

With regard to generating traffic forecasts and trip advice an embodiment of the present invention may access a data archive whereby recently observed traffic conditions are allocated to segments of road or highway. Utilizing this data format a profile of trip duration for a given route may be generated for a specific time period for example seven days. This forecast may be based on recent history of speeds over the route or particular segments of the route as well as other facts such as weather forecasts and holiday traffic.

The travel time forecast may integrate speed forecasts for the entire duration of the trip as opposed to a forecast generated only at the trip start time. For example an embodiment of the presently described travel time forecast may relate to a trip starting at 3 pm and lasting 100 minutes i.e. 100 minutes of travel time . Instead of calculating only traffic value as they exist at 3 pm the present invention will consider traffic speed forecasts from 3 pm to 4 40 pm and apply those forecasts to the relevant highway or road portions as they relate to the specific route to be traversed by a user of the present system.

The presently described forecasting embodiment stores an array of speed for for example ten minute intervals for each day of the week for each road segment in each direction of travel. In an embodiment of the present invention utilizing ten minute intervals 2016 values would be allocated. As these are predicted speed values the allocation of a full precision floating point number is not necessary. Data is recorded only for segments that have speed sensors other speed data determining means e.g. toll tags . If a speed value is not readily available a default value may be utilized the default value being calculated relative to surrounding speed values or subject to a manual setting.

Based on the particular route selected by the user a number of road segments will be identified. The forecast engine of the present invention will then generate a table of travel times for the route for each 144 ten minute interval i.e. 24 hours broken into 60 minutes further broken into 10 minute segments 24 60 10 in each day of the seven day week. The result is a table of 1008 pieces of unique routing information.

As shown in for each element of routing information a first segment is identified in step and a speed is forecast for the ten minute interval in step . The travel time on that particular segment is then calculated in step . The next segment in the route is then identified in step and a speed is forecast for that segment using the appropriate ten minute interval not earlier than the current ten minute interval and depending upon the time of day when that segment is reached the next incremental ten minute interval in step . The travel time for this second segment based on the particular increment of the ten minute interval is then identified in step . The travel time for the first segment is then added to the travel time for the second segment in step . The result is repeated until a travel time has been allocated to each segment along the entire route and a final travel time is calculated step .

Through this incremental speed to road segment determination travel patterns may be identified and illustrated graphically whereby users may plan travel around peak times in order to optimize travel.

In one embodiment of the present invention significant peaks of travel time may be identified through a criterion wherein the maximum travel time in the graph exceeds the minimum by a predetermined ratio for example 25 . If the minimum is exceeded by the aforementioned ratio then the travel time graph will accumulate temporal interest on a graph a horizontal line with a valuation equal to the peak value less X of that value. In one embodiment of the present invention X is equal to 10. The resulting intersection is a sequence of pair values wherein each value pair determines a peak driving time e.g. avoid driving a particular route between a start and finish time .

If the two peak times are close to one another for a relatively temporary period of time they may be combined into a single peak. For example a peak driving time of 4.40 to 5.50 and 6.00 to 6.24 may be combined into a single peak driving time of 4.40 to 6.24 because the peak driving times are otherwise ten minutes apart. The temporary period of time leading to a combination of peak times may be set by a user of the system.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the Traveler Information Dissemination system as disclosed herein is susceptible to many variations and additional embodiments not described herein. Therefore it is considered the teachings herein are only illustrative of the invention and not limiting of the invention in any way. For example new traffic patterns may be recorded and observed utilizing the methodologies described herein.

