---

title: Hybrid laser including anti-resonant waveguides
abstract: Described are embodiments of apparatuses and systems including a hybrid laser including anti-resonant waveguides, and methods for making such apparatuses and systems. A hybrid laser apparatus may include a first semiconductor region including an active region of one or more layers of semiconductor materials from group III, group IV, or group V semiconductor, and a second semiconductor region coupled with the first semiconductor region and having an optical waveguide, a first trench disposed on a first side of the optical waveguide, and a second trench disposed on a second side, opposite the first side, of the optical waveguide. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09515456&OS=09515456&RS=09515456
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09515456
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151102
---
The present application is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 997 983 filed Jun. 25 2013 which is a national phase entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2012 030601 filed Mar. 26 2012 entitled HYBRID LASER INCLUDING ANTI RESONANT WAVEGUIDES which designates among the various States the United States of America and the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with Government support under contract number H98230 10 9 0021 awarded by the Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to the field of lasers. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to an apparatus including a hybrid laser including anti resonant waveguides and a system including the hybrid laser having anti resonant waveguides.

Semiconductor lasers may be made from light emitting properties of III V semiconductor materials. Semiconductor lasers may be composed of two components an III V active region to generate light and a silicon waveguide to carry the generated light.

The optical mode of some hybrid lasers may be controlled by the waveguide dimensions. In general a high overlap of the optical mode with the III V region of the hybrid laser is desired. Pushing the optical mode into the III V region however may sometimes result in optical mode leakage and or widening of the optical mode.

Described herein are embodiments of an apparatus including a hybrid laser including anti resonant waveguides a system including the hybrid laser having anti resonant waveguides and a method for forming a hybrid laser including anti resonant waveguides.

In the following description numerous details are discussed to provide an explanation of various embodiments. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art however that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices may be shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring embodiments of the present invention. For example the height and or depth of each layer forming the active region is not described herein. Furthermore the embodiments of the invention are not limited to a particular composition and material system of the active region as long as the composition of the active region allows for a hybrid laser including anti resonant waveguides as discussed in the embodiments.

The second semiconductor region may include an optical waveguide indicated generally by the region demarcated by the hashed line box. The optical waveguide may be defined by a pair of waveguide trenches . In various embodiments anti resonance waveguides may include anti resonance waveguide trenches may be disposed on a first side of the optical waveguide and anti resonance waveguide trenches may be disposed on a second side opposite the first side of the optical waveguide as shown. The waveguide trenches and the anti resonant waveguide trenches may be filled with a gas. In various embodiments the gas may be air an inert gas or other gas. In some embodiments the gas may be any gas that may be trapped in the trenches or during processing. In other embodiments the waveguide trenches and or the anti resonant waveguide trenches may be filled with another low refractive index material such as for example silicon oxide or silicon nitride.

The trenches may provide anti resonant reflection to control the optical mode width while still allowing the optical waveguide to control the overlap of the optical mode with the active region . In various embodiments the trenches may provide additional reflections of the optical mode during operation of the hybrid laser apparatus which may help control the lateral extension of the optical mode.

The second semiconductor region may comprise any suitable material or materials for forming a hybrid laser apparatus. In various embodiments the second semiconductor region may comprise a semiconductor substrate. For example the second semiconductor region may comprise a silicon on insulator substrate comprising a handle substrate a buried insulating layer on the handle substrate and a silicon layer on the buried insulating layer . The buried insulating may comprise oxide. In various embodiments the buried insulating may comprise sapphire or another suitable insulating material. The handle substrate may comprise silicon such as for example doped silicon. The silicon layer may comprise a device fabrication wafer or epitaxial silicon. In various embodiments the silicon layer may comprise silicon.

In other implementations the second semiconductor region may be formed using alternate materials which may or may not be combined with silicon that include but are not limited to germanium indium antimonide lead telluride indium arsenide indium phosphide gallium arsenide or gallium antimonide. Further materials classified as group III V or group IV materials may also be used to form the substrate. Although a few examples of materials from which the substrate may be formed are described here any material that may serve as a foundation upon which a semiconductor device may be built falls within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

The active region of the first semiconductor region may be a III V active region including layers of semiconductor materials from group III group IV or group V semiconductor. illustrates a cross section of an example III V active region according to various embodiments of the invention. In various embodiments the contact shown in may be coupled to layer . In one embodiment the layer is an ohmic contact layer. In one embodiment the ohmic contact layer is composed of p type indium gallium arsenide InGaAs . The layer may be coupled to a cladding layer . In one embodiment the cladding layer is composed of p type indium phosphide InP . The cladding layer may be coupled to a separated confinement hetero structure SCH layer . In one embodiment the layer is composed of p type aluminum gallium indium arsenide AlGaInAs . The layer may be coupled to a carrier blocking layer . In one embodiment the layer is also composed of AlGaInAs. The layer may be coupled to a multiple quantum well MQW layer . In one embodiment the MQW layer is composed from AlGaInAs. The MQW layer may be coupled to the layer shown as layer in which may be composed of n type indium phosphide InP . The layers discussed above may have slight differences in their atomic ratios to tune the exact bandgap according to one embodiment of the invention.

The silicon layer of the second semiconductor region may provide a path of electric current to the contacts . Referring again to the layer layer of in some embodiments may extend laterally on either side of the active region see dotted extension of layer of to connect with the electrical contacts and the optical waveguide may be formed directly under the layer . In one embodiment trenches formed on the sides of the optical waveguide confine light within the waveguide . The optical waveguide may carry the optical signal in the form of a laser which may be generated by applying a voltage potential across the contacts and . In one embodiment the potential difference across the contacts and may be such that a current of 30 150 mA flows from the contact to the contact via the layer to cause the generation of an optical laser in the optical waveguide . In one embodiment the contact may be operable to receive a positive voltage potential while the contact may be operable to receive a negative voltage potential.

In other embodiments the layer does not extend laterally on either side of the active region as shown by layer of . In such an embodiment the electric current flows into the silicon layer of the second semiconductor region and out to the contacts . In one embodiment such conductive interface enables the silicon layer to act as an electrical contact by itself

In various embodiments the spacing and or width of the anti resonant waveguide trenches and the waveguide trenches may contribute to the optical leakage loss of the hybrid laser apparatus and or the location of the optical mode. The optical waveguide may have a width configured for providing a suitable optical mode overlap with the active region . In various embodiments the width of the optical waveguide may be about 0.4 m. In various embodiments the trenches and may separated from each other by about 1.0 m i.e. about 1.0 m of the silicon layer separates the waveguide trench from the anti resonant waveguide trench and about 1.0 m of the silicon layer separates the anti resonant waveguide trench from the anti resonant waveguide trench . The other side of the optical waveguide may be similarly configured. In various embodiments the waveguide trenches may each have a width of about 0.5 m. In other embodiments the waveguide trenches may each have a width of about 3.0 m. In other embodiments the waveguide trenches may each have a width in a range of about 0.5 m to about 3.0 m.

In the embodiments shown in and two anti resonant waveguide trenches and are provided on each side of the optical waveguide and its associated waveguide trenches . In other embodiments more or fewer anti resonant waveguide trenches may be provided. As shown in for example the hybrid laser apparatus includes one anti resonant waveguide trench on each side of the optical waveguide and its associated waveguide trenches . In other embodiments more than two anti resonant waveguide trenches not illustrated may be provided on each on each side of the optical waveguide and its associated waveguide trenches 

In one embodiment each optical receiver from among the optical receivers comprises a receiver coupled to an optical to electrical conversion unit . In one embodiment the receiver comprises an array of photo detectors. In one embodiment the de multiplexer couples an optical transmitter from among the optical transmitters to a corresponding optical receiver from among the optical receivers . In one embodiment the optical waveguide is an optical Universal Serial Bus USB cable. In one embodiment the optical waveguide is an optic fiber cable. In one embodiment the optical transmitters and receivers reside in their respective computer systems not shown . In various embodiments the lasers and or photo detectors of the receiver can be coupled to respective processors or to the same processor to provide input output. In some of these embodiments the lasers and or photo detectors of the receiver can be coupled to their respective processors or to the same processor to provide input output through an I O management chip.

Turning now to a method for making an apparatus including the hybrid laser including anti resonant waveguide trenches such as for example hybrid laser apparatus or may include one or more functions operations or actions as is illustrated by block and or .

Processing for the method may start with block by providing a first semiconductor region including an active region of one or more layers of semiconductor materials from group III group IV or group V semiconductor.

The method may proceed to block by defining an optical waveguide in a second semiconductor region by forming a pair of waveguide trenches.

The method may then proceed to block by forming a first trench on a first side of an optical waveguide and a second trench on a second side opposite the first side of the optical waveguide. In various embodiments the operations of blocks and may be performed during a single operation.

At block the method may proceed by coupling the first semiconductor region with the second semiconductor region to form the hybrid laser apparatus.

In various embodiments the method may optionally proceed from block to block by forming a third trench on the first side of the optical waveguide such that the first trench is between the third trench and the optical waveguide and forming a fourth trench on the second side of the optical waveguide such that the second trench is between the fourth trench and the optical waveguide. In various embodiments the operations of blocks and may be performed during a single operation. In other embodiments the operations of blocks and may be performed during a single operation and the operations of block may be performed prior to or after the single operation. After optional block the method may proceed to block .

In one embodiment the method of can be performed by executing machine readable instructions by a processor wherein the machine readable instructions are stored on a machine readable storage medium e.g. a flash memory a dynamic random access memory a static random access memory etc. coupled to the processor.

Embodiments of hybrid laser apparatuses and or optical systems described herein may be incorporated into various other apparatuses and systems including but not limited to various computing and or consumer electronic devices appliances. A system level block diagram of an example system is illustrated in . The hybrid laser apparatuses and or optical systems described herein may be included in one or more of the elements of the system . For example in various implementations the processor the chipset the communication chip and or the I O controller hub may include a transmitter and receiver of and or transmitter and receiver of having the hybrid laser apparatus of of and or of for communicating with one or more other elements of the system or connected to the system . In various embodiments the system may include more or fewer components and or different architectures than that shown in .

In various implementations the system may be a laptop a netbook a notebook an ultrabook a smartphone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA an ultra mobile PC a mobile phone a desktop computer a server a printer a scanner a monitor a set top box an entertainment control unit a digital camera a portable music player or a digital video recorder. In further implementations the system may be any other electronic device that processes data.

The system may include a communications cluster operatively to facilitate communication of the system over one or more networks and or with any other suitable device. The communications cluster may include at least one communication chip and at least one I O controller hub . In some implementations the at least one I O controller hub may be part of the at least one communication chip . In some implementations the at least one communication chip may be part of the processor .

In various embodiments the system may house a motherboard with which the processor and or the communications cluster may be physically and electrically coupled.

Depending on its applications the system may include other components that may or may not be physically and electrically coupled to the mother board. These other components include but are not limited to volatile memory e.g. DRAM non volatile memory e.g. ROM flash memory a graphics processor a digital signal processor a crypto processor a chipset a battery an audio codec a video codec a power amplifier a global positioning system GPS device a compass an accelerometer a gyroscope a speaker a camera an antenna and a mass storage device such as hard disk drive compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD and so forth .

The communication chip may enable wireless communications for the transfer of data to and from the system . The term wireless and its derivatives may be used to describe circuits devices systems methods techniques communications channels etc. that may communicate data through the use of modulated electromagnetic radiation through a non solid medium. The term does not imply that the associated devices do not contain any wires although in some embodiments they might not. The communication chip may implement any of a number of wireless standards or protocols including but not limited to Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 family WiMAX IEEE 802.16 family IEEE 802.20 long term evolution LTE Ev DO HSPA HSDPA HSUPA EDGE GSM GPRS CDMA TDMA DECT Bluetooth derivatives thereof as well as any other wireless protocols that are designated as 2G 3G 4G 5G and beyond. The system may include a plurality of communication chips . For instance a first communication chip may be dedicated to shorter range wireless communications such as Wi Fi and Bluetooth and a second communication chip may be dedicated to longer range wireless communications such as GPS EDGE GPRS CDMA WiMAX LTE Ev DO and others.

The system may include a display device such as for example a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED or other suitable display device. The display device may be a touch screen display supporting touch screen features and in various one of these embodiments the I O controller may include a touchscreen controller. In various embodiments the display device may be a peripheral device interconnected with the system .

The processor of the system may include an integrated circuit die packaged within the processor . In some implementations the integrated circuit die of the processor may include one or more devices such as transistors or metal interconnects. The term processor may refer to any device or portion of a device that processes electronic data from registers and or memory to transform that electronic data into other electronic data that may be stored in registers and or memory. The communication chip may also include an integrated circuit die packaged within the communication chip . The I O controller hub may also include an integrated circuit die packaged within the I O controller hub .

In various embodiments a hybrid laser apparatus may comprise a first semiconductor region including an active region of one or more layers of semiconductor materials from group III group IV or group V semiconductor. In various embodiments the apparatus may further comprise a second semiconductor region coupled with the first semiconductor region and having an optical waveguide a first trench disposed on a first side of the optical waveguide and a second trench disposed on a second side opposite the first side of the optical waveguide.

In various embodiments the second semiconductor region includes a third trench disposed on the first side of the optical waveguide such that the first trench is between the third trench and the optical waveguide and a fourth trench disposed on the second side of the optical waveguide such that the second trench is between the fourth trench and the optical waveguide.

In various embodiments a layer of the first semiconductor region is directly bonded with a layer of the second semiconductor region wherein the layer of the first semiconductor region is composed of indium phosphide and wherein the layer of the second semiconductor region is composed of silicon. In various embodiments the apparatus further comprises a first electrical contact coupled with the active region of the first semiconductor region and a second electrical contact coupled with the indium phosphide layer of the first semiconductor region. In various embodiments the apparatus further comprises a first electrical contact coupled with the active region of the first semiconductor region and a second electrical contact coupled with the silicon layer of the second semiconductor region.

In various embodiments the layers of the first semiconductor region comprise at least one of an ohmic contact layer coupled with a first electrical contact layer a cladding layer coupled with the ohmic contact layer a separated confinement hetero structure SCH layer coupled with the cladding layer a carrier blocking layer coupled with the SCH layer a multiple quantum well MQW layer coupled with the SCH layer and an indium phosphide layer coupled with the MQW layer wherein a surface of the indium phosphide layer is coupled with a surface of a layer of the second semiconductor region.

All optional features of the apparatuses described above may also be implemented with respect to various systems described herein. For example in various embodiments a system may include one or more of the hybrid lasers described above. In various embodiments system includes a receiver to receive an optical signal. In various embodiments the system includes a transmitter to transmit the optical signal. In various embodiments the transmitter may comprise the hybrid laser to generate a laser beam.

In various embodiments the system further comprises a modulator coupled to the hybrid laser to modulate the laser beam transmitted over the silicon waveguide. In various embodiments the receiver comprises a photo detector to detect the modulated laser beam.

In various embodiments the system further comprises a processor operatively coupled with the receiver and the transmitter and a display device operatively coupled to the processor. In various embodiments the display device is a touch screen.

In various embodiments the system is a selected one of a laptop a netbook a notebook an ultrabook a smartphone a tablet a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC a mobile phone a desktop computer a server a printer a scanner a monitor a set top box an entertainment control unit a digital camera a portable music player or a digital video recorder.

All optional features of the apparatuses and systems described above may also be implemented in various methods. For example in various embodiments a method for making a hybrid laser comprises providing a first semiconductor region including an active region of one or more layers of semiconductor materials from group III group IV or group V semiconductor. In various embodiments the method further comprises forming a first trench on a first side of an optical waveguide of a second semiconductor region and a second trench on a second side opposite the first side of the optical waveguide. In various embodiments the method further comprises coupling the first semiconductor region with the second semiconductor region.

In various embodiments the method further comprises defining the optical waveguide in the second semiconductor region by forming a pair of waveguide trenches wherein the optical waveguide is disposed between the pair of waveguide trenches.

In various embodiments the method further comprises forming a third trench on the first side of the optical waveguide such that the first trench is between the third trench and the optical waveguide and forming a fourth trench on the second side of the optical waveguide such that the second trench is between the fourth trench and the optical waveguide.

Various aspects of the illustrative implementations are described herein using terms commonly employed by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art however that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced with only some of the described aspects. For purposes of explanation specific numbers materials and configurations are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the illustrative implementations. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances well known features are omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the illustrative implementations. Further various operations are described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the illustrative embodiments however the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations need not be performed in the order of presentation. Moreover methods within the scope of this disclosure may include more or fewer steps than those described.

The phrase in some embodiments and in various embodiments are used repeatedly. The phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiments however it may. The terms comprising having and including are synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise. The phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . The phrase A B means A B or A and B similar to the phrase A and or B . The phrase at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . The phrase A B means B or A and B that is A is optional.

Although various example methods apparatuses and systems have been described herein the scope of coverage of the present disclosure is not limited thereto. On the contrary the present disclosure covers all methods apparatus systems and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims which are to be construed in accordance with established doctrines of claim interpretation. For example although the above discloses example systems including among other components software or firmware executed on hardware it should be noted that such systems are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. In particular it is contemplated that any or all of the disclosed hardware software and or firmware components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

