---

title: Self-serve diagnostic tools for network services
abstract: A network device receives a collection of technical steps for implementing a type of service campaign. The technical steps include application programming interface (API) level calls to a service provider network. The network device associates the technical steps with particular customer software, receives validation criteria for each of the technical steps, generates a diagnostic map of the technical steps for the particular customer software, and conducts, based on the diagnostic map, a test of the API level calls for the particular customer software to obtain test results. The network device receives a customer deployment record of changes occurring during software deployments for the service campaign for the particular customer software and receives a provider record of service provider changes to network level software that impact the service campaign for the particular customer software. The network device correlates the test results with the customer deployment record and the provider record.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507701&OS=09507701&RS=09507701
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09507701
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150424
---
An API Application Programming Interface uses a collection of software functions and procedures referred to as API calls that can be executed by other software applications. Service providers e.g. telecommunications providers may provide APIs that customers can use to access services features that are included in software products that customers may eventually offer to consumers e.g. end users . Testing trouble shooting of a customer service campaign that incorporates APIs from the service provider often requires cooperation between the service provider and the customer. Typically when customers experience degraded performance and or fail a customer may initiate a service call to the service provider for trouble shooting or instructions.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and methods described herein provide diagnostic and monitoring information to customers of a service provider network. Customers of the service provider network may be enterprise customers that provide content to end users referred to herein as consumers . The diagnostic and monitoring information may be accessible via a self serve web portal to reduce the need for customer support calls and reduce wait times to obtain service status. As described further herein customers e.g. enterprise network customers may initiate testing of application programming interface API level calls associated with code from the service provider. Diagnostic results may be provided to each of the customers in a controlled manner. In one implementation the systems and methods may automatically correlate results and or performance of the API level calls with automated or manual changes occurring during software deployments done at the application layer for a user interface portal or business logic serving particular customer campaigns. In another implementation the systems and methods may automatically correlate results and or performance of the API level calls with changes occurring on the service provider network level software to help troubleshoot customer problems.

Wireless access network may correspond to a Long Term Evolution LTE access network or another broadband cellular network. Wireless access network may include one or more devices that implement logical entities interconnected via standardized interfaces and that provide wireless packet switched services and wireless IP connectivity for both data and voice services. Wireless access network may include a base station or eNodeB a mobility management entity MME a serving gateway SGW a packet data network gateway PGW a home subscriber server HSS and other network devices. While implementations herein are described primarily in the context of wireless access network providing broadband services via LTE other wireless protocols may be used. For example components conforming to LTE standards described herein may be replaced by components conforming to other network protocols e.g. Global System for Mobile Communications GSM wideband code division multiple access WCDMA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 High Speed Packet Access HSPA Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax etc. .

Enterprise network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or a combination of networks that provide network access for end users. In one implementation enterprise network may include a network interconnecting one or more user devices such as devices providing data services e.g. personal computers workstations laptops etc. devices providing voice services e.g. telephones and or devices providing video services e.g. televisions set top boxes etc. . In another implementation enterprise network may include one or more gateway GW routers e.g. customer premises equipment that provide act as a secure gateway for devices within enterprise network .

Public network may include a WAN an intranet a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network or a combination of networks. Public network may include for example an untrusted network such as the Internet. Public network may further include transport and or network devices such as routers switches and or firewalls.

Service provider cloud computing infrastructure may include network devices computing devices and or storage devices to provide shared resources to users of wireless access network enterprise network public network and or service provider network . Services provided by service provider cloud computing infrastructure may include for example computing as a service cloud storage a hosted voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service a Network Address Translation NAT service a Virtual Private Network VPN service a firewall service an Intrusion Detection and Prevention System IDPS an email filtering service a filtering service for a particular web site a load balancing service a video distribution service a lawful intercept service on behalf of a law enforcement entity and or any other type of service that be provided by a cloud computing environment.

Service provider network may include one or more wired wireless and or optical networks that are capable of receiving and transmitting data voice and or video signals including multi media signals that may include voice data and video information generally referred to herein as services . Service provider network may include a WAN a metropolitan area network MAN an ad hoc network an intranet a satellite based network a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks. Additionally or alternatively service provider network may include a cellular network the Public Land Mobile Network PLMN and or another mobile network. In some implementations service provider network may provide redundancy and or the ability to distribute network loads. For example service provider network may include an IP network or a multiprotocol label switching MPLS network implementing an Interior Gateway Protocol IGP or another protocol that implements a minimum cost end to end path for routing between nodes. Service provider network may provide one or more interfaces to connect to client devices e.g. user devices or other devices residing on enterprise network .

User device may include a mobile electronic device or a stationary electronic device that is capable of communicating with other devices in the customer premises. User device may also communicate with rules server notification server web server and or other devices via network . In one implementation user device may provide an interface to configure customer diagnostics and or receive service notifications from notification server . In one implementation user device may also be a mobile computing device such as a smartphone smartwatch or tablet. In another implementation user device may include an Internet enabled device such as a computer workstation desktop computer or another networked device. In still another implementation user device may include components of a television based communication system such as for example a set top box STB a home media server a gaming console or an Internet television. In one implementation user device may include a wireless transceiver such as a Bluetooth transceiver a near field communications NFC transceiver a Wi Fi transceiver and or a Long Term Evolution LTE transceiver. In another implementation user device may communicate via a wired Ethernet interface.

Customer cloud computing infrastructure may include network devices computing devices and or storage devices to provide shared resources to users of wireless access network enterprise network public network and or service provider network . Customer cloud computing infrastructure may provide similar or different services than those of service provider cloud computing infrastructure . For example in one implementation services from customer cloud computing infrastructure may be limited to registered users of enterprise network .

Diagnostic system may include one or more devices such as computer devices network devices and or server devices which are configured to provide configurable diagnostics for service provider network and systems integrated with service provider network . Diagnostic system may receive a collection of technical steps for implementing a particularly type of service campaign. Technical steps may generally include discrete tasks and or subtasks that are applicable to any customer for implementing a service campaign. The technical steps may include use of application programming interface API level calls to service provider code residing on for example service provider cloud computing infrastructure service provider network or customer cloud computing infrastructure . In one implementation diagnostic system may enable a user to associate the technical steps with a particular customer software and validation criteria for each of the technical steps. As described further herein diagnostic system may then generate a diagnostic map of the technical steps for the particular customer software that may be used by the customer to conduct end to end testing and or customized testing of a customer service campaign.

Service portal may include one or more devices such as server devices that enable customers to configure and provide services to consumers e.g. users using user devices . For example service portal may provide a web portal that may enable an operator of a particular enterprise network to configure a service campaign. As a particular example service portal may enable customers e.g. operators of enterprise network or other content providers to register billing accounts and particular content for toll free data services.

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include any type of single core processor multi core processor microprocessor latch based processor and or processing logic or families of processors microprocessors and or processing logics that interprets and executes instructions. In other embodiments processor may include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA and or another type of integrated circuit or processing logic.

Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and or instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor . For example memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device a read only memory ROM device or another type of static storage device a content addressable memory CAM a magnetic and or optical recording memory device and its corresponding drive e.g. a hard disk drive optical drive etc. and or a removable form of memory such as a flash memory.

Input device may allow an operator to input information into device . Input device may include for example a keyboard a mouse a pen a microphone a remote control an audio capture device an image and or video capture device a touch screen display and or another type of input device. In some embodiments device may be managed remotely and may not include input device . In other words device may be headless and may not include a keyboard for example.

Output device may output information to an operator of device . Output device may include a display a printer a speaker and or another type of output device. For example device may include a display which may include a liquid crystal display LCD for displaying content to the customer. In some embodiments device may be managed remotely and may not include output device . In other words device may be headless and may not include a display for example.

Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems via wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared and or visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. Communication interface may include a transmitter that converts baseband signals to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that converts RF signals to baseband signals. Communication interface may be coupled to an antenna for transmitting and receiving RF signals.

Communication interface may include a logical component that includes input and or output ports input and or output systems and or other input and output components that facilitate the transmission of data to other devices. For example communication interface may include a network interface card e.g. Ethernet card for wired communications and or a wireless network interface e.g. a WiFi card for wireless communications. Communication interface may also include a USB port for communications over a cable a Bluetooth wireless interface a RFID interface a NFC wireless interface and or any other type of interface that converts data from one form to another form.

As will be described in detail below device may perform certain operations relating to processing data from monitored devices and or applying rules for one or more monitored devices . Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory .

Although shows exemplary components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components additional components or differently arranged components than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Diagnostic mapping module may compile elements for detailed diagnostics and or monitoring of a particular service e.g. a service of the service provider being used by a customer . For example for a particular service diagnostic mapping module may identify diagnostic scenarios for software operations testing. In one implementation diagnostic scenarios may be identified by diagnostic mapping module in conjunction with a customer using customer interface module . In another implementation diagnostic scenarios may be identified by diagnostic mapping module in conjunction with a network operator using service provider interface module . Example of diagnostic scenarios may include 

Service interface may provide a connection for diagnostic mapping module to access customer information from a particular service portal e.g. associated with a service to be tested customer interface module and or service provider interface module . Service interface may identify particular devices addresses ports and other customer specific information to perform end to end testing of a particular service campaign.

Service campaign steps data may include a comprehensive listing of technical steps associated with a service that can be monitored and or tested to diagnose performance. In one implementation service campaign steps may be provided by a service provider as part of a campaign configuration. In one implementation service campaign steps data may designate particular technical steps that can be tested and reported to the customer and other technical steps or sub steps where the tested results may be limited to service provider viewing.

Validation criteria may include criteria for each of the technical steps from service campaign steps data . For example validation criteria may include thresholds ranges pass fail criteria etc. to define performance of a technical step from service campaign steps data . Validation criteria may be a generic value e.g. not specific to a particular customer or customized value for a particular customer. In one implementation validation criteria may be determined based on a customer service level agreement. In other implementations validation criteria may be set by a network administrator associated with the service provider or customer. Validation criteria may include for example binary criteria pass fail or conditional criteria e.g. particular time windows data rates etc. to indicate ranges of performance such as unacceptable acceptable and optimal .

Diagnostic map may include a collection of technical steps e.g. from service campaign steps data and validation criteria e.g. from validation criteria for a particular service and customer. Diagnostic map may provide a comprehensive software development test plan for the particular customer and service e.g. applied to one or more of the diagnostic scenarios described above . As described further herein diagnostic map may be divided into building blocks to test individual aspects a software deployment.

Returning to test module may initiate diagnostic testing by applying information from diagnostic mapping module . Testing by test module may be initiated for example through customer interface module or service provider interface module . Test module may collect and store test results. In one implementation test module may provide some or the entire test results to status module customer interface module and or service provider interface module .

Status module may evaluate test results from test module and may interpret test results in light of validation criteria e.g. validation criteria . In one implementation status module may assign a status indicator to a particular technical step or set of steps based on results from test module . For example a status indicator may include a color a number a letter etc. As an example of a color based status indicator one color e.g. green may indicate acceptable performance another color e.g. yellow may indicate degraded performance and still another color e.g. red may indicate a failure. In other implementations a numeric scale e.g. 1 5 a letter code e.g. A B C D F and or key words e.g. pass fail etc. may be used as status indicators.

Status module may also implement one or more algorithms to summarize a status of multiple technical steps or subtasks with a single status indicator. Depending on the algorithm for example status module may summarize multiple subtasks that have degraded performance with a single failure status. As another example a group subtasks that have a combination of acceptable and degraded indicators may be shown with an acceptable indication. In one implementation status module may present the summary status to users e.g. via user interface module while presenting the summary status and underlying subtasks status to customers e.g. via customer interface module . Status module may also track and update historical test information such as last successful execution last successful scheduled test last failure last smoke test etc. associated with each technical step or a collection of technical steps.

Application layer correlator may correlate test results and or performance of API level calls with changes occurring during software deployments e.g. automated or manual done at the application layer e.g. as defined by in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model for the GUI portal or the business logic of the monitored service. In one implementation application layer correlator may obtain access change records from one or more devices in enterprise network or portal service to track histories of application layer changes. Application layer correlator may compare the histories of application layer changes with current and past tests performed by test module and or results from status module .

Network layer correlator may correlate results and or performance of API level calls with changes occurring on network level software e.g. within service provider network to help troubleshoot customer problems. In one implementation network layer correlator may obtain access change records from one or more other devices in service provider network to track histories of network level software changes. Network layer correlator may compare the histories of network level software changes with current and past tests performed by test module and or results from status module .

Customer interface module may provide a user interface to manage diagnostics and to present data associated with a particular service and customer from status module application layer correlator and or network layer correlator . provides a diagram of exemplary functional sub components of customer interface module . Service provider interface module may include similar functional sub components. As shown in customer interface module may include a status indicator module test configuration module and test broker .

Status indicator module is described in the context of . provides an exemplary user interface that may be presented to a user of customer interface module . The particular example of provides a simplified exemplary user interface for self serve diagnosis of a service campaign. The example of uses terminology for a toll free data campaign where an arrangement between a service provider and a customer e.g. a content provider allows mobile subscribers to access content without impacting their monthly wireless data plan. In a toll free data campaign websites or mobile apps registered as toll free content will be free for the consumers and data charges can be billed directly to the sponsoring customer instead of the consumer s personal account.

Status indicator module may present coded indicators and historical information associated with a technical step or collection of technical steps for a particular service campaign. For example as shown in status indicator module may provide a status section of an overall software development campaign. Status section may include the status of individual campaign steps e.g. as tracked by status module and may be presented with in one example status icons that indicate whether a step e.g. a step relating to a TFD campaign is in compliance with validation criteria. For example red or bold status icons e.g. next to API SSP Integration may indicate that a step is out of compliance is needed yellow or solid outlined status icons e.g. next to Technical Integration may indicate that the corresponding step is providing acceptable but not optimal results and green or dotted outlined status icons e.g. next to Sign up may indicate that the corresponding step is providing optimal results within the validation criteria. As noted above in connection with status module other forms of status indicators may be used for status icons .

Status indicator module may also present test history information related to the technical steps for the particular service campaign. For example as shown in status indicator module may provide a test history section . Test history section may provide historical test information related to a particular section or group of sections. For example test history section may present test information from status module such as last successful execution last successful scheduled test last failure last smoke test etc. associated with an end to end test of a campaign or one or more particular technical steps.

Test configuration module and test broker are described in the context of . provides an exemplary user interface that may be presented to a user of customer interface module . The particular example of provides a user interface for configuring customized testing of a service campaign such as a toll free data campaign.

Test configuration module may allow building of custom tests by the customer combining building blocks of basic and or more complex tests provided by the service provider and third party services so it becomes possible for the customer to test Was my campaign working within X of best performance while I was pushing out a particular marketing tweet on Twitter . For example as shown in test configuration module may provide a customized test plan section and an available technical steps section . According to one implementation a user of user interface may drag available test blocks from technical steps section to customized test plan section to form a customized test.

Test configuration module may also allow ad hoc and scheduled execution of the tests validations by the customer. For example test configuration module may provide a test scheduling section to allow a user of user interface to schedule a one time or recurring test.

Test broker may broker ad hoc or custom test execution commands thru a performance checking process so that tests cannot impact the overall system or particular customer service performance. For example as shown in a validation option may be selected by a user of user interface to validate a customized test. In one implementation selection of validation option may cause test broker to evaluate current or projected network activity to ensure that a particular test can be performed at a scheduled time without adversely impacting network performance. In another implementation selection of validation option may cause test broker to evaluate the combination of steps in customized test plan section to ensure testing feasibility.

Service provider interface module is described in the context of . provides an exemplary user interface that may be presented to a network administrator for service provider network . The particular example of provides a user interface for implementation of a toll free data campaign. Service provider interface module may provide a user interface to manage diagnostics and to present data associated with a multiple services and or customers from status module application layer correlator and or network layer correlator . For example service provider interface module may provide access to test results of ad hoc and scheduled tests run by different customers.

As shown in service provider interface module may provide a user interface that is similar to user interface . A network administrator may select the status for a particular service campaign and customer. Service status section may include information presented to customers in service status section of user interface along with addition information. Particularly additional technical steps that are not privy to individual customers may be presented. The additional technical steps may be presented with status icons that may follow the same code scheme as described above for status icons . For example as shown in additional steps and icons for API SSP Integration may be visible in user interface but may be rolled up into a single indicator and status icon when presented in user interface . In one implementation user interface module service provider interface module Service provider interface module may also provide historical test data and customized testing similar to those described above in connection with user interfaces and .

Although show exemplary functional components of diagnostic system in other implementations diagnostic system may include fewer functional components different functional components or additional functional components than those depicted in . For example in other implementations diagnostic system may include interfaces to receive network or customer software updates from other systems.

Process may include receiving a collection of technical steps including API level calls for implementing a particular service campaign block and associating the technical steps with the particular customer implementation block . For example for a given type of service campaign e.g. a TFD service etc. a service provider may identify a list of technical steps such as specific API calls needed to integrate the service from the service provider with a customer s software. In one implementation the list of technical steps may be particular to the offered service but generic to any particular customer. In another implementation there may be different technical steps needed for different customer platforms such as a cloud based platform an enterprise LAN platform or a mobile platform. The technical steps may be matched to a particular customer s implementation of a service campaign to ensure integration of any service provider software e.g. API calls that are needed to implement the customer s software that offers a product such as toll free content to consumers. For example each of the API calls from the list of technical steps for a particular platform may be matched to corresponding customer code segments.

Process may also include receiving validation criteria for each of the technical steps block . For example for each of the technical steps needed to integrate the service from the service provider a network technician and or customer technician may identify criteria to validate verify that each technical step has been and or continues to be executed properly. Criteria may include for example binary criteria pass fail or conditional criteria e.g. particular time windows data rates etc. to indicate ranges of performance such as unacceptable acceptable and optimal .

Process may further include generating a diagnostic map of technical steps for the particular customer software block . For example diagnostic system may apply information obtained in blocks and to generate an end to end diagnostic map for testing the customer campaign. In one implementation the diagnostic map may identify discrete test segments that may be used as building blocks for customized testing of discrete portions of the end to end testing.

Process may additionally include receiving test configuration input from the customer block brokering the configuration input block and conducting a test of the API level calls for the particular customer software block . For example diagnostic system e.g. test configuration module may allow scheduling of ad hoc tests and building of custom tests by the customer. Diagnostic system e.g. test broker may ensure that test executions commands can be performed in a manner that does not adversely impact performance for the customer or service to other customers of service provider network . Diagnostic system may perform scheduled or ad hoc testing based on the end to end diagnostic map and or portions thereof. In one implementation the testing may be based on user input from customer interface module .

Process may further include correlating the test results from the test of the API level calls with customer or network changes block and presenting a summary of the test results to the customer via the customer interface block . For example diagnostic system may collect test results and correlate the test results with system changes. As described in connection with customer interface module e.g. status indicators may present coded indicators e.g. status icons and historical information associated with a technical step or collection of technical steps of the service campaign.

In one implementation process block may include the process blocks shown in . As shown in process block may include receiving a customer deployment record of customer changes occurring during software deployments on the application layer block and correlating the test results with the customer deployment record block . For example application layer correlator may receive customer software development histories that indicate revision dates and or change records. Application layer correlator may correlate results and or performance of API level calls with automated or manual changes occurring during software deployments.

Process block may also include receiving a provider record of service provider changes to network level software that impact the service campaign block and correlating the test results with the provider record block . For example network layer correlator may receive service provider revision records that indicate revision dates and or change records. Network layer correlator may match results and or performance of API level calls with times and code sections of changes occurring on network level software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. For example while a series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other embodiments. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

Certain features described above may be implemented as logic or a unit that performs one or more functions. This logic or unit may include hardware such as one or more processors microprocessors application specific integrated circuits or field programmable gate arrays software or a combination of hardware and software.

No element act or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

