---

title: Thermo-optically tuned photonic resonators with concurrent electrical connection and thermal isolation
abstract: A photonic resonator system is designed to use thermal tuning to adjust the resonant wavelength of each resonator in the system, with a separate tuning circuit associated with each resonator so that individual adjustments may be made. The common electrical ground connection between the tuning circuits is particularly formed to provide thermal isolation between adjacent resonators by including a capacitor along each return path to ground, where the presence of the capacitor's dielectric material provides the thermal isolation. The use of capacitively coupling necessarily requires the use of an AC current as an input to the heater element (conductor/resistor) of each resonator, where the RMS value of the AC signal is indicative of the amount of heat that is generated along the element and the degree of wavelength tuning that is obtained.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09366822&OS=09366822&RS=09366822
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09366822
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150929
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U. S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Silicon photonic elements rely on the principle of resonance to achieve active and passive optical functionality such as filtering dense wavelength division multiplexing DWDM modulation and switching. Realizing these functions in an efficient manner critically depends on spectral alignment of resonance and operating wavelengths. Use of resonators with high quality factors e.g. Q factors exceeding 1000 makes silicon microphotonic elements sensitive to variations in temperature and fabrication processes. Unpredictable real time changes in silicon chip temperature cause the spectral resonance location to shift from its desired value which may worsen the insertion loss contrast ratio passband ripple rejection ratio and ultimately the signal to noise ratio at an associated photoreceiver. These temperature induced changes in the optical response of resonant devices are a dynamic effect.

Besides these temperature induced dynamic changes small variations in the fabricated dimensions of resonant devices can also create significant deviations in resonance location from a predetermined value and can also lead to worsening in the optical figures of merit described above. Fabrication induced changes in optical response are a static effect as opposed to the dynamic temperature induced changes . Together variations in temperature and fabrication lead to enough time dependent shifts in the photonic system response to warrant real time monitoring and correction of resonance locations.

A prevalent technique to bring a resonant wavelength back to its design specification value is referred to as thermo optic tuning . It is known that the refractive index value of silicon the base material used to form photonic resonators is a function of temperature. Thus by changing the temperature of the photonic resonator its local refractive index will also change and the resonant wavelength will shift accordingly. Attractive features of thermo optic tuning include its reversibility unlimited number of tune detune cycles and allowance for tuning of individual resonators or resonator groups.

Thermo optic tuning is typically provided by including a resistor like element as simple as a length of a metal conductor in proximity to the optical resonator. A DC current is passed through the element which generates heat by well known effects. The amount of heat that is generated is a function of among other things the selected material composition of the conductive element its topology proximity to the resonator and value of DC current applied to the element.

In applications where two or more photonic resonators are used common in many filtering and switching situations each resonator is likely to be tuned to a different resonant wavelength. In this case a separate heater element and DC current source is paired with each resonator. From a circuit design point of view it is desirable to connect the various current sources to a common ground plane taking the form of a metallic connection the ground line between adjacent resonators. This common ground connection however creates an undesirable thermal path between adjacent resonators making it difficult to tune closely spaced resonators. That is even if other means are being used to provide thermal isolation such as for example physical separation between adjacent photonic resonators the utilization of a common ground connection provides a thermal path to transfer unwanted and unpredictable heat from one resonator to another.

A need remains therefore for a way to maintain an electrical connection between adjacent photonic resonators while still keeping them thermally isolated so that individual resonant wavelength tuning can be performed.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various embodiments of the present invention as described in detail herein relate to a photonic resonator configuration that utilizes a common electrical ground connection between the driver circuits used to provide thermal tuning where each resonator s ground connection is capacitively coupled to provide thermal isolation by creating a break in the heat transfer path between adjacent resonators.

Inasmuch as capacitive coupling relies on the inclusion of dielectric material between a pair of metallic plates the well known high thermal isolation property of the dielectric material functions as way to break the heat transfer path between adjacent resonators. Because capacitors block direct current a capacitively coupled heater element must be energized by an ac current in contradistinction to the dc thermal tuning signal of the prior art. For ac thermal tuning the rms value of the ac signal is indicative of the thermal power generated along the heater element. The heater element itself may comprise a metal conductor resistor or any other structure capable of generating heat upon the application of an AC current.

Advantageously the use of silicon based systems in the formation of a photonic resonator structure allows for conventional CMOS processing techniques to be used for including capacitive structures within the ground plane connection.

Capacitive coupling may also be included along the input signal line to provide for additional thermal isolation within the photonic resonator structure.

The resonant wavelength of ring is at least partially determined by the cross sectional dimensions of ring and waveguide the materials forming the resonator and the operating temperature of the system. As mentioned above temperature and fabrication variations are known to affect the resonant wavelength. Under certain conditions therefore it is possible that the resonant wavelength of ring resonator may drift away from to the extent that the signal is no longer captured by the resonator. A thermo optic controller system may therefore be used to monitor the resonant wavelength and provide thermal tuning to maintain the resonant wavelength within a given tolerance around .

The thermo optic controller as shown in includes a heating coil of electrically conducting material disposed around the periphery of ring resonator . Heat is generated by passing a current from a DC current source through heating coil which then returns to ground connection . The resonant wavelength can therefore be controlled by appropriately increasing or decreasing the amount of current injected into heating coil by source .

There are many applications for photonic resonators where it is necessary to utilize a group of resonators situated in close proximity to one another. illustrates in simplified form one such application. Referring to an optical add drop system is shown in simplified form depicted as an optical waveguide OW capable of supporting the transmission of signals operating at various wavelengths and a set of three ring resonators R R and R each resonator exhibiting a different resonant wavelength and . is a plot showing these resonant wavelengths where the dotted line plot illustrates the drift in wavelength than can occur as a result of thermal and fabrication variations.

It is possible to utilize the thermo optic resonant wavelength tuning arrangement as shown in with each ring resonator of including a heating coil disposed on each ring and a separate DC current source for controlling the amount of current injected into each separate heating coil. From a circuit design viewpoint it is desirable to connect these separate current sources to a common ground plane. A common ground connection however requires a metallic connection between adjacent resonators. depicts this arrangement in simplified form with a common ground connection between resonator and resonator . The presence of this common ground connection defeats the thermal isolation between adjacent resonators by providing a path for heat transfer between the resonators. This thermal coupling along the ground connection makes it difficult to tune closely spaced resonators and maintain acceptable resonance conditions even when other types of thermal isolation e.g. physical barriers have been included in the system.

The present invention addresses this problem and provides a solution that allows for the common electrical ground connection to be maintained while concurrently providing thermal isolation between adjacent resonators along the ground connection. In particular a capacitive coupling arrangement is used where the capacitor allows for the electrical connection to be maintained. The dielectric material of the capacitor exhibits the thermal insulative properties sufficient to provide the necessary thermal isolation between the resonators.

As shown in capacitor is formed by disposing a dielectric material such as SiObetween sections and of ground connection sections and forming the opposing plates of the capacitor structure . It is well known that dielectric materials including SiO are very good thermal insulators. The presence of dielectric material therefore functions to break the heat transfer path between first photonic resonator and second photonic resonator . By virtue of creating this thermal isolation between adjacent resonators each may be thermally tuned to maintain resonant wavelength control without concern of using a common electrical ground connection.

The inclusion of capacitive coupling necessitates the use of an alternating current as the thermal tuning input as opposed to the direct current used in the prior art since the capacitor structure will block the flow of a DC current. The configuration of shows a thermo optic wavelength tuning configuration in the form of a first AC source for supplying an AC input current along an input signal path to a heating coil of first photonic resonator . Heating coil may comprise a simple metal strip that follows the contour of the resonator a resistive element or any other configuration that is able to generate heat upon the application of an AC signal. In specific embodiments the heating is provided by an element formed within the same silicon body as the optical resonator using appropriate doping to form the element and adding ohmic contacts to provide electrical connection to the AC source. A second thermo optic wavelength tuning arrangement is shown as including an AC source for supplying an AC input current along signal path to a heating coil or any other suitable type of heating element of second photonic resonator . The RMS value of the AC signals is used in the determination of the amount of heat that will be generated in each heating coil.

For efficient low power tuning most of the voltage drop should occur across the resonator structure i.e. across the heating coil or other resistive element which will typically be integrated with the resonator . If the impedance of the coupling capacitor or capacitors is too large there will be for a fixed current a competing voltage drop across the capacitors. Hence the capacitive impedance should be minimized for optimum results in terms of tuning efficiency. If the drive frequency f is fixed a smaller impedance needs a large value of the capacitor C which in turn needs either a large area A or small plate separation d. Smaller values of d lead to a thinner insulating layer and consequently a lesser degree of thermal isolation. A large value of the plate area A consumes valuable chip area clearly not a preferred alternative.

In accordance with the present invention therefore a main design tradeoff for capacitively connected photonic resonators is the efficiency of heat generation in the ring resonator structure versus the degree of thermal isolation desired and size of the capacitor used. Various designs for creating the capacitor particularly the selection of dielectric material separation d and plate area A can be included in the selection process for obtaining the best results for a particular application. Thus the thermo optic tuning efficiency of the capacitively coupled resonator structure of the present invention depends primarily on the relative voltage drop across the resonator s heater coil and the capacitor design.

It is to be understood that the possible configurations of resonators and capacitors are not limited to the direct capacitive connection as shown in . In particular illustrates an alternative embodiment of capacitively coupled photonic resonators formed in accordance with the present invention. In this configuration electric ground connection is shown as a common bus interconnection. Capacitor as described above is disposed between the ground connection of heater element and ground line . Also shown in this configuration is an isolation capacitor disposed between a ground connection of heater element and ground line . Obviously additional photonic resonators that may be added in sequence along with those illustrated in would include a similar capacitive connection between the ground signal line of the heater element and ground line .

In addition it is contemplated that the input signal line may be capacitively connected as well. The arrangement as shown in includes a first input capacitor disposed along input signal line and a second input capacitor disposed along input signal line . As will be discussed below in association with it is possible that the specific assembly of the components will include an electrical integrated circuit within which the AC driver circuits and monitoring electronics will be formed as well as a photonic integrated circuit where the resonators waveguides and heater elements will be formed. The electronic component could exhibit an elevated temperature while also having a fairly low thermal impedance from one signal line to the next via the transistors and grounds on the electronic chip. Thus waste heat generated in the electronic chip can propagate to the resonator assembly along signal lines such as lines and of . This problem can be mitigated by adding capacitors to provide thermal isolation in accordance with the present invention.

A typical silicon photonics wafer has approximately 3 m of buried oxide below silicon layer which itself has a thickness of about 225 nm. Once the optical elements have been formed in silicon surface layer a second layer of oxide material shown in this case as oxide layer is formed to cover the top surface of the structure. The electric contacts to regions and necessary to provide the AC current input to the heater elements are achieved by etching via holes through the thickness of oxide layer in the appropriate locations and filling the via holes with metal. These electrical contacts are shown as via elements and in . A top metal pad is shown as in contact with each of the vias namely pad with element pad with element pad with element and pad with element .

Electrical IC chip includes as mentioned above the AC driver circuits necessary to provide thermal tuning of the resonant wavelengths for the resonators included within photonic IC . A simplified layer structure for these driver circuits is shown in . Transistors associated with a first AC driver circuit are formed within a layer of chip . The AC current generated by first AC driver circuit is passed through a via connection to a metal contact pad on the top surface of electrical IC chip . Similarly transistors associated with a second AC driver circuit are formed within a separate region within layer with the generated AC current passing through a via connection and onto metal contact pad .

In this flip chip configuration electrical IC chip is flipped and attached to photonic chip in the manner shown with the top surface of chip facing the top surface of chip . A plurality of solder bumps is used to provide electrical connection between the associated contact pads. In particular a first solder bump is used to provide electrical connection between contact pad of chip and contact pad of first resonator providing a path for the AC drive signal from the circuit on chip to the resonator on chip . A second solder bump provides a similar AC tuning current signal path connection between pad and contact pad .

As discussed in detail above the drive circuits also include ground connections which are preferably coupled together to create a common ground plane. In accordance with the present invention each resonator is capacitively coupled to the ground plane in order to provide thermal isolation between adjacent resonators while maintaining the common electrical connection along the ground plane. This capacitive connection is formed in the configuration of by forming a capacitive connection along the return ground path between photonic chip and electrical IC chip .

Referring to capacitively coupled ground connections may be created in this exemplary embodiment by including a layer of dielectric material over each ground contact pad on photonic chip . As shown a first dielectric layer is disposed to cover contact pad associated with the first resonator structure and a second dielectric layer is disposed to cover contact pad associated with the second resonator structure . Solder bump connections and are coupled to dielectric layers and respectively and provide a signal path to ground layer contacts and on electrical IC chip . In this manner a capacitor is formed where for example contact pad forms a first plate and the combination of solder bump and contact pad forms a second plate with dielectric layer between the pair of plates . Layer and the combination of solder bump and ground contact pad form a similar pair of plates for the second resonator capacitively coupled connection.

It is to be noted that there are many different types of capacitively coupled structures that may be easily incorporated in a silicon based arrangement such as that shown in . For example many other dielectric materials besides SiO2 may be used where certain materials are known to exhibit greater degrees of thermal isolation while being a relatively thin layer. Hafnium dioxide is one exemplary material that is a high K dielectric which exhibits good thermal isolation. Other capacitive structures such as a metal oxide semiconductor MOS capacitor may be formed within flip chip structure and provide the desired electrical conductivity along the ground plane while blocking heat transfer between adjacent resonators. In the particular use of a MOS capacitor a 10 nm layer of hafnium dioxide may be used. This arrangement would therefore reduce the undesired voltage drop across the capacitor relative to an SiOcapacitor of a smaller value.

As noted an AC driving circuit is needed to be incorporated into the thermo optic tuning structure of the present invention. illustrates an exemplary arrangement for AC driving circuit of in this case taking the form of an RF modulator . RF modulator is shown as comprising a voltage source of a DC analog voltage and a local oscillator LO . The output signals from voltage source and LO are combined within a multiplier to create the AC current output signal utilized as the drive current input for thermo optic tuning. As shown this output is then coupled into signal path passing through capacitor and then into heater coil as shown in .

In embodiments of the present invention LO can be made adjustable that is it can be configured to generate an output at different frequency values. As is well known the amount of heat generated within the associated coil will be function of the RMS value of the current which will be frequency dependent if driven by a voltage source. Hence frequency control can provide one approach for controlling the heater.

In comparison to the DC based tuning arrangements of the prior art the utilization of an AC driver in accordance with the present invention necessarily results in both positive and negative bias on each pulse. One problem with the prior art DC based heater designs is that they are affected by electromigration. That is since the heater is almost always on with some current moving in the same direction for the life of the device it is possible for the heater coil to start to break down or at least experience intermittent failures. Of course the heating provided by the coil is necessarily impacted by the presence of electromigration.

The utilization of an AC drive current in accordance with the present invention eliminates the possibility of electromigration since the applied current will always move in both directions an equal amount of time.

Pulse width modulation PWM is another type of signal processing that may be used to provide an input signal in the capacitively coupled thermo optic tuning arrangement of the present invention. The only drawback here is that the low frequency cut off of the PWM signal must be high enough to allow for a fairly small on chip capacitor to be used.

Although the invention is illustrated and described herein with reference to specification embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the details shown. Rather various modifications may be made in the details within the scope and range of equivalents of the claims and without departing from the invention.

