---

title: Kinematic asset management
abstract: A system for managing kinematic assets is disclosed. In one embodiment, the system comprises an electronic identification device associated with an asset. The system further comprises a container comprising a reader disposed within the container for receiving a unique identification of the identification device. The container further comprises a reader node for maintaining an inventory record comprising the asset and for generating a report when the asset is not detected by said reader. The report further comprises a location of the container when said report is generated. The system further comprises a kinematic asset management platform comprising an asset registry for storing data conveyed by the report and a reports engine for generating a second report conveying the location of said container when the report is generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558471&OS=09558471&RS=09558471
owner: Trimble Inc.
number: 09558471
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150728
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims the benefit of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 750 750 filed on Jan. 25 2013 entitled KINEMATIC ASSET MANAGEMENT by James C. Reynolds et al.

Currently most large enterprises with field service operations and field service management responsibilities are inventorying and managing their assets such as tools test sets circuit boards set top boxes termite bait stations network interface devices employee ID badges and satellite TV antennas in various and sometimes inefficient ways. This asset inventory and location management has been restricted to standard warehouse buildings where manual inventory processes are used to track the status and location of items. Examples of currently used technology for inventorying and managing company assets at fixed sites such as enterprise warehouses and store rooms are bar code scanning radio frequency identification RFID tags and manually prepared spreadsheets.

Assets used in a field service operation entering the field service company supply chain typically have excellent documentation inventory and accountability at the initial point of receipt such as the central warehouse or at the organization that directly receives an item e.g. the directly delivered test set . However once there is movement of that asset beyond the initial point of entry into a field service company control inventory and accountability become a real problem regarding loss prevention leakage and lack of asset knowledge leading to overstock.

Companies or organizations within an enterprise that deliver field service or that have technology driven services related infrastructure assets usually receive products and materials in their central warehouse. However there is ample opportunity for inventory failure and accountability which unfortunately applies to both high value and low value product and materials. In some cases certain products and materials such as a needed test set are shipped directly from the supplier to a work center location where that item may be used or distributed further to field service technicians. In those situations accountability and inventory are distributed and even more difficult for a field service operation to manage.

Today field service operations whether they are involved in communications services heating ventilation air conditioning HVAC services plumbing services or termite control services have field service technicians or engineers that have assets which go in motion i.e. become kinematic. The very nature of field service means that technicians are out with customers and partners i.e. in the field. Today assets used by field service technicians are not tracked with the kind of precision needed for proper accountability and control. In some cases today where companies have tried to implement accountability and control measures increases in labor costs and human intervention have been known to cause errors and reduce the accuracy of these control measures.

A system for managing kinematic assets is disclosed. In one embodiment the system comprises an electronic identification device associated with an asset. The system further comprises a container comprising a reader disposed within the container for receiving a unique identification of the identification device. The container further comprises a reader node for maintaining an inventory record comprising the asset and for generating a report when the asset is not detected by said reader. The report further comprises a location of the container when said report is generated. The system further comprises a Kinematic asset management platform comprising an asset registry for storing data conveyed by the report and a reports engine for generating a second report conveying the location of said container when the report is generated.

Reference will now be made in detail to various embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the subject matter will be described in conjunction with these embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the subject matter to these embodiments. On the contrary the subject matter described herein is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope as defined by the appended claims. In some embodiments all or portions of the electronic computing devices units and components described herein are implemented in hardware a combination of hardware and firmware a combination of hardware and computer executable instructions or the like. Furthermore in the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. However some embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures objects and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the subject matter.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the present Description of Embodiments discussions utilizing terms such as associating establishing maintaining transferring detecting reporting storing receiving determining disregarding using conveying generating displaying indicating including providing assigning accessing or the like often but not always refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device such as but not limited to a display unit and or a lifting device sensor unit or component thereof. The electronic computing device manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the electronic computing device s processors registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the electronic computing device s memories registers and or other such information storage processing transmission or or display components of the electronic computing device or other electronic computing device s .

Example units systems and methods for kinematic asset management are described herein. Discussion begins with description of the terms asset and kinematic asset. Discussion continues with description of components comprising an enterprise wide employment of a kinematic asset management system in accordance with various embodiments. Components of a kinematic asset management platform are then discussed. Discussion then turns to description of the concept of a moving warehouse static warehouse in accordance with various embodiments. A High value Equipment Loss Protection implementation is then discussed. An example Work Worker Asset implementation is then described. A method for compensating for detection shortcomings is then discussed. An example computer system is then discussed with which or upon which various components method procedures or portions thereof may be implemented.

Various embodiments implement a Kinematic Asset Management platform which can interact with an Inventory Management application for company assets that typically move via company vehicles from one company location to another company location or to a customer location and provides multiple levels of improvements in managing company assets. As a result not only is the warehouse inventory control extended far beyond the warehouse s walls and out into the entire fleet but the entire inventory monitoring process in that fleet is automated and continually running. The Kinematic Asset Management Platform can be integrated with or along side of enterprise asset management systems and asset inventory systems. For example the Kinematic Asset Management Platform combined with an asset inventory application would result in a Kinematic Asset Inventory Management application.

In accordance with various embodiments the term asset describes a company s equipment tools test equipment etc. and for a company s products and consumables e.g. TV set top boxes cable modems other hardware . These are considered assets to the extent that their monetary or business process value warrants knowing where they are and thus they are assets worth monitoring. In addition to the above described category of assets the term asset also describes the vehicles that carry them are themselves company assets. A vehicle is an asset that can contain other assets. Similar to vehicles the term asset also describes a physical building which can itself be considered a company asset and it also can contain other assets. In accordance with various embodiments the term asset also describes employees of a company. As with other assets they too can move and also be contained inside of another asset e.g. a driver in a van .

 Standard assets warehouses and vehicles are in this context treated generally the same and differ mostly in only several attributes. For example a warehouse is an asset that can contain other assets cannot move and is at a known static location. A vehicle is an asset that can also contain other assets but can move and whose location is dynamic or kinematic and can be determined using Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS receivers. A voltmeter is an asset that cannot contain other assets but can move and whose location is not self determined but is determined using a sensor tag e.g. RFID that is read by another asset whose location is somehow known e.g. warehouse or vehicle . Thus in various embodiments an asset can be anything anyone owned used or employed by an entity.

In accordance with various embodiments the term kinematic asset describes an asset whose location and or container changes during the normal course of business. If an asset can be located geographically e.g. with GNSS or in the case of a building or other immovable asset at a fixed location or can be located in or near another asset e.g. with RFID it can be interrelated with other kinematic and non kinematic assets and events. In various embodiments an entity s vehicles are considered warehouses just like the entity s buildings or other fixed assets. They both are simply containers for other assets. So while a vehicle is considered a warehouse it is also considered a kinematic asset. In other words there is no technical difference between a warehouse building and a company vehicle other than a vehicular warehouse can move.

In accordance with various embodiments a kinematic asset management platform is provided with can interact with asset positioning inventory management human resource dispatch work ordering and field service operations components to monitor and manage kinematic assets for an entity. Various embodiments can interact with existing supply chain management and inventory control systems to facilitate inventory management and accountability of enterprise assets used in field service operations located in warehouses depots garages and store rooms as the move from fixed storage sites e.g. become kinematic in an enterprise vehicle and return to the fixed site or are potentially transferred to another enterprise vehicle. Various embodiments implement asset identification technology such as RFID with Location Based Service LBS technology for enterprise vehicles to allow full asset management functions throughout an asset s lifecycle within an enterprise wherever the asset is moved. Kinematic asset management of enterprise assets that tend to go into the field can be isolated to enterprise vehicles and equipment in various embodiments. Alternatively if an enterprise wants to monitor the full lifecycle of its assets and provide full integration of data the enterprise can deploy the same technology applied to enterprise vehicles to warehouses depots store rooms etc. in accordance with various embodiments. This would allow monitoring and managing fixed and mobile assets together.

In addition to providing inventory for all monitored areas e.g. storerooms vehicles etc. various embodiments implement a kinematic asset management platform e.g. of can be used to address overstocking of inventory. As an example some field technicians will intentionally overstock their vehicles to ensure that they do no run out of items while in the field. This excess inventory in turn carries a cost on the company books. In accordance with various embodiments kinematic asset management platform will provide to a user the level of inventory in the company s vehicle fleet which allows another system or person to determine whether a vehicle is overstocked with a given item. The kinematic asset management platform can also be used to facilitate product delivery verification. In accordance with various embodiments kinematic asset management platform will provide information to a user of what items have entered and left a vehicle and at what time of place. This information can be used by another system or person to verify that the correct items have been delivered to the correct location. Similarly in various embodiments kinematic asset management platform can be used to ensure that all high value equipment is on the vehicle when the vehicle leaves a work site. In one example an inventory of what items equipment and personnel are in a vehicle when the vehicle leaves a work site can be provided to another system or person to facilitate determining whether all of the equipment is on the vehicle. By determining whether the correct personnel are also present various embodiments can be used to determine whether the vehicle is being stolen as well.

In another embodiment kinematic asset management platform can be used to ensure that the correct equipment items and personnel are in the vehicle to begin that vehicle s scheduled service run. In other words for the service stops scheduled for that vehicle on that day kinematic asset management platform will provide to another system or person a list of the equipment e.g. test sets tools etc. present on the vehicle before it begins its service schedule. This facilitates determining whether the vehicle is properly stocked for the service run it is about to begin. As a result drivers will be less inclined to overstock their vehicles prior to beginning a service run. Also kinematic asset management platform can provide the identity of the driver of that vehicle as well. This can be provided to another system or person which can determine whether that driver is qualified to perform all of the services scheduled for that vehicle on a given day.

In accordance with various embodiments a respective asset identification is implemented using machine readable identification and detection technology. This can include but is not limited to RFID tags barcodes and cameras as well as manually entered data. It is noted that the term RFID tag can include a variety of technologies including but not limited to WiFi tags e.g. compliant with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards RuBee tags e.g. compliant with the IEEE 1902 standard Bluetooth tags e.g. compliant with the IEEE 802.15 standard the IEEE 802.15.1 standard for personal area networks ZigBee tags e.g. compliant with the IEEE 802.15.4 standard as well as other devices compliant with other implementations of the IEEE 802.15 standards for wireless personal area networks. In various embodiments a respective asset identification can also be implemented using various barcode technologies such as a standard linear barcode a stacked linear barcode a proximity barcode a matrix 2D barcode or the like. In various embodiments a respective asset identification can be captured using cameras or video equipment. In various embodiments Kinematic Asset Management System is configured to accept one or more of the following image file formats the Join Photographic Experts Group JPEG format the JPEG 2000 format the Exchangeable Image File Exif format the tagged Image File Format TIFF the Portable Network Graphics PNG format the Graphics Interchange Format GIF a bitmap file the JPEG XR format the InterLeaved BitMap ILBM format the Adobe PhotoShop Document PSD format and the Corel Paint Shop Pro PSP format. Furthermore Kinematic Asset Management System is also configured to accept various image vector formats such as the Scalable Vector Graphics SVG standard of various implementations of 2D and 3D vector formats as well as various implementations of compound formats and stereo formats. In various embodiments a worker s asset identification e.g. A of is implemented using machine readable identification tags capable of conveying data using for example RFID based identification data magnetic swipe cards a barcode 26 bit Wiegand technology smart cards or the like.

In system further comprises a Kinematic Asset Management Platform . In accordance with various embodiments Kinematic Asset Management Platform collects stores and reports kinematic asset information and position data and is integrated with enterprise inventory and operations applications. Kinematic Asset Management Platform also provides interfaces for other enterprise asset management dispatch systems workflow supply chain human resource and work ordering systems.

In accordance with various embodiments reader nodes and can be autonomous reader nodes which do not require manual intervention by a user e.g. implementing RFID technologies described above . In at least one embodiment an autonomous reader node is implemented as a roving cart or vehicle which detects the presence of assets records its own position e.g. using RFID cards with position information GNSS receivers etc. and reports to Kinematic Asset Management Platform e.g. via a WiFi network cellular network or other wireless communication technology . Reader nodes and may also comprises manned stations which implement barcode readers or other technologies which necessitate manual intervention by a user. It is noted that reader nodes and can implement both autonomous and manual technologies in at least one embodiment. Thus if an asset is tagged with an RFID tag and a barcode both forms of object identification can be read at reader nodes and . As an example in reader node is coupled with reader A which can be an RFID reader implementing one or more of the RFID technologies described above and with reader B which can be a barcode reader. In one or more embodiments reader nodes and are implemented using a computer system e.g. computer system of which is coupled with a network . In one or more embodiments reader nodes and and reader devices respectively coupled therewith can be implemented as a single device. Additionally reader nodes and can be used in provisioning assets into a Kinematic Asset Management Network in various embodiments. In at least one embodiment a reader node is responsible for maintaining an inventory of the items contained within the containers e.g. rooms vehicles etc. that it is monitoring and communicating changes of that inventory to Kinematic Asset Management Platform .

A typical RFID reader node continuously scans its area to detect new tags which may appear or to report tags which have been previously responding and are no longer responding. In one embodiment a reader node will simply report these observations as objects which have entered or left the are monitored by the reader node. For manually entered associations a user can log into Kinematic Asset Management Platform and manually declare asset associations and disassociations. For example a user can login and specify that item A has been checked out of warehouse and is now in a vehicle e.g. of . In the case of barcode reader nodes some user intervention may be necessary to specify that the asset identified by the barcode reader is entering or leaving a container.

In the embodiment of reader nodes and are coupled with reader node software. For example reader nodes and are coupled with reader node software while reader nodes and are coupled with reader node software . Reader node software and act as hosts for appropriate sensors RFID barcode reader etc. and allow a user to make these associations. This software allows the user to select existing assets and identifiers already in the system as well as create new assets and or identifiers during the provisioning process. In various embodiments more than one identifier may be attached to an asset. This may be done to decrease the likelihood that an asset goes unnoticed by the sensors as may occur if an identifier is occluded or otherwise put into a situation that makes it unreadable. The allowance for business assets to have more than one machine readable identifier must exist throughout the entire system. In at least one embodiment it may be desirable to monitor which software instance of a reader node monitored separate sections of a facility. Thus each of reader nodes and can be provisioned with a unique login username which can be used to identify the reader node software to the system.

As shown in a single instance of reader node software e.g. reader node software of can monitor multiple rooms containers areas as well as host multiple reader nodes each with multiple readers in different areas e.g. reader node software of . In accordance with various embodiments each instance of reader node software provides an installation mechanism that facilitates making associations and dissociation to system for each of its monitored assets regardless of the physical installation of monitored areas reader nodes and readers. Reader node software and can be configured to provide a drop down list of all rooms at fixed location from which selections can be made as well as an interface for creating new rooms if necessary. In operation each of the rooms of fixed location is considered a container of other assets. Thus each room of fixed location can be identified with a unique identifier

With reference again to fixed location further comprises provisioning stations and . In accordance with various embodiments a provisioning station is simply a tool e.g. a computer system plus software that facilitates the creation of Objects and the associations of those Objects within the database of Kinematic Asset Management Platform . In its simplest implementation a provisioning station adds assets into the system if they are not already recorded adds an identification label into the system if it is not already recorded and associates the label with the asset. Typically the associations of the Objects performed at a provisioning station are no different than the associations made by RFID readers for example during the normal business day except that associations performed at a provisioning station are done manually and they are expected to last a very long time presumable the life of the provisioned Objects. In other words and for example associating an RFID tag with a tool is logically the same as associating the tool with a van except that the tag tool association is semi permanent and the tool van association is dynamic can possibly change during the normal work day.

In accordance with various embodiments provisioning or commissioning of assets involves the association of an identifier e.g. A of with an asset e.g. of . This typically comprises two aspects physically attaching an identifier to the asset and second telling the system that this new identifier is associated with that asset. These steps can occur at the same time or can be vastly separated in time and distance. The latter instance would be the case if an asset came from the manufacturer with a suitable identifier already attached. To simplify the process for the user a provisioning station e.g. and or of restricts its Object associations to associating Objects of the Role Identification with Objects that make sense e.g. business assets etc. . If the provisioning station is an RFID Tag provisioning station then it would create Objects of Type RFID Tag of particular Manufacturers and Models creates asset e.g. Objects of any reasonable existing Type or newly created Type such as a tool and associates the two Objects together using the Association type Infrastructure .

It is noted that provisioning stations and may provide more information than just that created during provisioning. For fixed provisioning stations vs. portable the provisioning station software itself will be an Object in the system in a manner similar to reader node software and and are identified by a username password unique to that provisioning station. Similar to an in building node that monitors room s in that building the rooms are Objects too during normal business operations provisioning stations and will be made known to the system as Objects and will also be associated with the room area that they are in. Then when an item is provisioned at that particular provisioning station it is not only provisioned into the system but is also automatically located in the provisioning area where the provisioning station is located.

In accordance with various embodiments any tool that can access the web services provided by Kinematic Asset Management Platform can be a provisioning station. In one embodiment the provisioning station could accept all information manually typed . In this case no external peripherals such as an RFID reader would be required. Furthermore provisioning stations do not have to be at fixed locations within fixed location . Portable provisioning tools e.g. having integrated RFID and or barcode readers could be deployed to provision assets in place thus eliminating the need to physically route all assets through a provisioning station at a fixed location.

While the association of identifiers to their corresponding assets is typically a one by one operation in at least one embodiment provisioning stations and or a web interface are configured to batch upload asset information. The batch upload simply pre loads assets e.g. and of into the system for later provision association by a provisioning station. For example if assets arrive from vendors manufacturers already RFID tagged a batch upload of the assets and their identification associations can be made available to provisioning stations and .

In the example of reader nodes and are coupled with either a local Kinematic Asset Management Platform A or a cloud network implemented Kinematic Asset Management Platform B via network .

In accordance with various embodiments each asset in an enterprise is regarded as an object. This is a naming convention and is done to improve clarity in the system. Everything everyone and everywhere e.g. tools bar code labels RFID tags people rooms in buildings cities vehicles login accounts cable boxes etc. in the database of kinematic asset management platform is an object. The categorization and characterization of objects typically comprises three aspects the types of objects the role that objects of that type perform in the system and the individual objects themselves. In general terms an object s type specifies what that object is while the object s role specifies its purpose in the enterprise.

In an example of database fields used in various embodiments to describe an object Table 1 below shows example database fields and a description of those fields in accordance with various embodiments.

In accordance with various embodiments the Object Name and Description fields may not be entered if the object is not unique to this particular object. For example if this Object is one of 100 Stanley Model 400 Hammer Drills the serial number of this object alone may be entered. The Fields Stanley Model 400 and Hammer Drill would be contained in the Object Type referenced by the Object Type field.

As discussed above the field Object Type specifies what an Object is. Object types are also contained in a database table. In various embodiments names of Objects include but are not limited to Motor Vehicles Cable Boxes RFID tags Bar Code Labels Persons and Rooms and are uniquely defined by their manufacturer and model when appropriate. In one embodiment the system has an initial list of Object Types that belong to an account and additional object types can be added to the system and owned by individual accounts. Thus each account has access to Object Types that belong to the root account and to those created under their own account.

In an example of database fields used in various embodiments to describe an Object Type Table 1 below shows example database fields and a description of those fields in accordance with various embodiments.

In various embodiments an Object type cannot share the same manufacturer and model number in a given account. The specific data content of an Object Type distinguishes it from other types of objects. New object types may be created by users and subsequent queries and reports can extract information specific to those object types. Additionally object types can be used for information extraction to generate reports or alerts. For an example a query can be generated to List all the Cable Boxes in a given van. In another example a query can be generated to List the Cable Boxes of this manufacturer and this model in a given van. In another example a query can be generated How many Ronco Model 1000s are in a given room 

In various embodiments each type of Object has a role in the system. Roles include but are not limited to Identification Business Asset Container and Collection . Special roles can be reserved for internal use such as System Access for an Object with the object type of Login . As discussed above an Object s role defines its purpose in an enterprise. An Object s purpose could be to identify other objects as a Container for other objects as a Business Asset etc. In one embodiment Object roles will be an enumerated list of roles rather than contained in a separate database table. In the example below while presented in a table for clarity it is again noted that the Object roles are described in an enumerated list.

To better differentiate between the roles of Container and Collection in one embodiment a container is a physical asset such as a room or vehicle which contains other assets. In one embodiment when presenting the contents of a container if another Container is found within the first Container e.g. a storeroom within a warehouse the drill down of objects in the container does not stop at the storeroom but continues into the contents of the storeroom as well. In contrast in one embodiment a Collection is considered a virtual asset that is simply a set of other assets which are treated as a single asset. When presenting the contents of a Container if a Collection is found e.g. an installation kit in a storeroom the drill down stops and simply present the existence of the kit and not the individual assets within the kit.

In various embodiments the relationship between Objects in the system is called an Association. Object Association is a mechanism which connects all Objects in an Enterprise s system. This commonness allows a very simple database design which uses a list of objects and a second list describing how those objects are associated regardless of how or why that association came to be. This allows a single hierarchy regarding all objects in the system. This hierarchy is uniform all the way from a tool and the tag on the tool to the RFID reader installed in a vehicle reading the tag to the vehicle itself being read by a reader installed in a warehouse. Object associations can typically be one of 2 types Infrastructure or Operation . Infrastructure associations typically include provisioning where a business asset e.g. asset of is labeled with an RFID label e.g. Asset ID A of . In one embodiment the relationship between the RFID label and the business asset is an Infrastructure Association . In this example the RFID label and the business asset are separate and distinct Objects in the database of Kinematic Asset Management Platform . The fact that the RFID label has been adhered to the business asset is added to the Associations table of Kinematic Asset Management Platform as part of the provisioning process. This association does not affect either the RFID label object record or the business asset object record in the Objects table. In various embodiments all associations that are part of the infrastructure of the system are identified in the Associations table with an Association Type of Infrastructure . These include but are not limited to n RFID label or tag attached to a business asset an RFID reader installed in a vehicle RFID readers installed in buildings etc. Typically these Infrastructure Associations tend to be semi permanent and change only during a change of infrastructure such as replacing broken or lost RFID tags or equipment or possibly moving tags or readers to different locations assets. Other than the semi permanence of these associations they are identical to the frequently changing associations that occur during the normal business day associations that are determined by reading RFID tags and bar codes instead of attaching labels and tags to business assets.

In contrast Operation Associations can change during the normal course of a company s business. These are the associations that occur when a sensor such as an RFID reader detects that an object is nearby. This detection creates a direct association in the system between the reader and the identification label and subsequently a logical association between the container in which the Reader is installed and the business asset to which the label is attached.

These associations are dynamic but other than their Type of Association in this case Operation they are identical in the database to the infrastructure associations created during asset provisioning and system equipment installations. In various embodiments associations that occur during the operation of a customer s business are identified in the Associations table with an Association Type of Operation . These include but are not limited to RFID detection of assets in containers such as storerooms and vehicles manual entry of asset location e.g. manually declaring The oscilloscope is in van 00123 etc.

In accordance with various embodiments some Object Associations are between an asset and the container within which that asset is located. Sometimes this association indicates ownership such as when a tool is within a van. In other cases it simply indicates a physical state e.g. the result of multi layer containment such as when a tool is within a van a container and the van is within a warehouse another container . As an example if a hammer is within a van and the van is within a warehouse then the hammer is physically and literally in the warehouse. However the hammer is not owned by the warehouse. It s owned by the van. This comes into play when for example someone asks how many hammers are currently in a warehouse. The response should not include the hammers that are within a van that just happens to be parked within or proximate to the warehouse at that time. In other words within is a physical state while owned by is an operations business state. For example if a vehicle e.g. mobile location is parked near fixed location and the readers of both the vehicle and fixed asset detect the asset identification A of asset the reader nodes of both the vehicle and fixed location will report the presence of asset to Kinematic Asset Management Platform . Kinematic Asset Management Platform will then apply rules to prevent reporting the presence of asset in two different locations at the same time. For example Kinematic Asset Management Platform can implement a rule in which all possibilities are presented. As a result Kinematic Asset Management Platform would present to a user that asset is in fixed location as well as in mobile location . In another embodiment Kinematic Asset Management Platform can implement a rule which states that assets are owned by their respective containers until released e.g. assigned ownership to another container . In this case Kinematic Asset Management Platform would present to a user that for example asset is in fixed location . In another embodiment Kinematic Asset Management Platform can implement a rule which states that the asset is owned by any new container that claims it. In this example Kinematic Asset Management Platform would present to a user that asset is within mobile location . In another example Kinematic Asset Management Platform can implement a rule which states that in cases where there is some ambiguity as to where the asset is located the location of that asset will not be definitely reported. In this example Kinematic Asset Management Platform would report to a user that Kinematic Asset Management system cannot report with certainty where asset is located.

In accordance with various embodiments ownership vs. containment may be resolved by Kinematic Asset Management Platform and or various reader nodes e.g. and of or of using the Roles of the Objects and whether the associations of those Objects are Infrastructure Associations or Operation Associations. For example the contents of warehouses are expected to be in areas of the warehouse such as storerooms. However normally it would not expected that the content of the warehouses to be in vehicles that happen to be pulled into the warehouse. This requires a different presentation for separate cases in which a hammer is within a storeroom within the warehouse and a hammer within a vehicle within the warehouse.

In accordance with various embodiments to properly respond to a query for the content of a container e.g. warehouse van city etc. the contents of all containers that are Infrastructure associated with the queried container are to be included. This requires recursion in case there is more than one level of sub container. So the contents of monitored storerooms that are infrastructure ally associated with a warehouse are included in the content of the warehouse but the content of the van parked within the warehouse that is operationally associated rather than infrastructure ally associated with the warehouse is not.

In various embodiments reader node further comprises a location identification device . In one embodiment the location of readers and as well as reader node are recorded when they are disposed in a fixed location. This can comprise the GPS coordinates of readers and as well as of reader node . Alternatively other position references such as the address of a building where reader node and or readers and are located or a local reference coordinate system can be used to convey the location at which reader node and readers and are located. In the instance in which reader node is associated with a moving asset such as a vehicle location identification device can comprise a position determination component such as a GNSS receiver. Alternatively location identification device can comprise a passive device such as a RFID tag or the like which is detected by other readers located at known locations.

In vehicle is also equipped with a data transceiver coupled with a wireless antenna . In accordance with various embodiments data transceiver may operate on any suitable wireless communication protocol including but not limited to WiFi WiMAX WWAN implementations of the IEEE 802.11 specification cellular two way radio satellite based cellular e.g. via the Inmarsat or Iridium communication networks mesh networking implementations of the IEEE 802.15.4 specification for personal area networks and implementations of the Bluetooth standard. In one embodiment a plurality of the above described communication standards may be implemented using one or more data transceiver s to provide redundant communication capabilities.

Periodically reader generates a command to antennae and to detect assets within vehicle . When assets are detected within vehicle this information is time date stamped and this data is stored by reader . In various embodiments reader can detect the direction of movement of an asset into or out of vehicle based upon successive readings of an asset tag using antennae and . Simultaneously a position of vehicle is derived using location identification component . In accordance with one embodiment computer system maintains a record of assets it detects within vehicle and reports changes of that inventory to Kinematic Asset Management Platform along with position data time stamps as well as messages and alerts from other reporting sources. Additionally computer system can generate an asset report e.g. periodically or in response to a query generated by Kinematic Asset Management Platform which is wirelessly conveyed to Kinematic Asset Management Platform . This facilitates maintaining an up to date record of all assets including kinematic assets for an enterprise. In addition in at least one embodiment computer system is configured to monitor assets within vehicle and to generate alerts if for example vehicle leaves a site without the proper assets being detected by antennae and . Thus if vehicle travels a pre determined distance from a site and if assets assigned to or owned by vehicle are detected by antennae and reader will generate an alert on computer system e.g. using a display device of to notify the driver. The driver can then return to the last site visited or otherwise resolve why the missing assets have not been detected by antennae and . It is noted that while not shown in computer system can be configured with instances of software similar to reader node software and of . Furthermore computer system can also act as a provisioning station in various embodiments.

In asset management platform is coupled with a vehicle positioning database and an asset registry . In one embodiment asset registry is a cloud based implementation which receives time stamped asset data which is also correlated with GPS GNSS positioning data. In at least one embodiment asset registry maintains an asset location history which is stored for example for one year. In accordance with various embodiments asset registry comprises hardware and software logic that implements a relational database to provide complete inter relationships between all items in asset registry . In one or more embodiments the predominant inter relationships are based on the dynamic location of and the changing containers for most of the assets of an enterprise. In other words the kinematics of these assets. One function of asset registry is to define assets in such a way that their attributes e.g. static dynamic and relational are useful to the applications other enterprise applications which access Kinematic Asset Management Platform . In other words Kinematic Asset Management Platform can be integrated into an enterprise s existing asset management system to enhance their functionality by monitoring kinematic assets.

In GPS GNSS positioning platform and asset management platform are coupled with a reports engine . In accordance with various embodiments reports engine generates reports e.g. standardized reports or user definable reports of inventories asset locations operational status or any other data element stored by Kinematic Asset Management Platform on a periodic schedule or on demand from a user. In accordance with various embodiments reports engine pulls data from asset management platform and GPS GNSS positioning platform. For example in one embodiment asset registry contains data regarding asset relationships and the time and location of asset relationship changes. However the location of a vehicle e.g. of in which the asset is located is contained in vehicle positioning database . Thus by pulling data from both sources a more complete picture of the status and location of an asset can be derived by reports engine . In another embodiment asset location changes are delivered to asset registry . Thus the location of the asset vehicle e.g. is stored in asset registry and an association is made between a detected asset and the vehicle location at the time the asset was located. In various embodiments reports engine can be configured to generate alerts based upon pre determined parameters. For example if a high value item is removed from a vehicle reports engine can be configured to generate a report conveying this event. In another example if the inventory of a given asset falls below a pre determined level reports engine will generate a report conveying this information. In another example if a vehicle moves a pre determined time and or distance without the detection of an asset by the reporting system of that vehicle reports engine can generate a report conveying that information. In another example when a given event does not occur at a pre determined time reports engine will report this event. For example if by 9 00 AM four assets with the attribute of employee are not associated with any asset with the attribute of vehicle reports engine will generate a report of this information. Reports engine can also generate complex alerts based upon numerous attributes. For example if a high value item has been removed from a vehicle and no asset with the attribute of employee is currently associated with that vehicle reports engine can generate a report indicating the possibility of theft of that high value item.

Furthermore in GPS GNSS positioning platform is coupled with a presentation component kinematic which is used as the presentation mechanism for some Kinematic Asset solutions. For example presentation component can be a privately hosted information management system e.g. a centrally hosted website for an enterprise which permits access to users internal and external to the enterprise. This can include calendar file sharing data exchange reporting and geo spatial data exchange across the enterprise. One example of a presentation component in accordance with various embodiments is the Trimble Connected Community platform commercially available from Trimble Navigation of Sunnyvale Calif. Thus using presentation component status of inventories location of assets or status of operations can be accessed from Kinematic Asset Management Platform . In one embodiment presentation component is capable of providing this information for mobile applications operable on handheld devices such as cell phones PDAs tablet computer systems laptop computer systems etc. For example it is understood the some remote mobile nodes can comprise handheld mobile devices with their own GPS GNSS and RFID capability which can convey the same information as a vehicular reporting system except that the handheld mobile devices will use web services directly while vehicular reporting systems may use a mechanism such as an over the air protocol.

In accordance with various embodiments interactions with Kinematic Asset Management Platform will be via web services. In one embodiment these web services will be accessed either directly from the field or user segments or for example indirectly from the field segment when the field node is a vehicle containing equipment that may use a proprietary protocol over a cell phone network that is in turn translated to web service calls at a server.

In Kinematic Asset Management Platform further comprises an integration layer comprising application programming interfaces and software development kits for interacting with existing enterprise applications including but not limited to dispatch systems supply chain systems human resource systems work order systems and field service operations service ordering systems . In accordance with various embodiments integration layer integrates and interfaces with other systems to automate much of the asset management process for an enterprise. By integrating with dispatch systems Kinematic Asset Management Platform can query asset registry for available assets in response to a query from a dispatch engine. This facilitates dispatching vehicles with needed assets to a job site more efficiently. As discussed above Kinematic Asset Management Platform can interface with supply chain systems or other inventory management systems e.g. SAP ERP SCM or the like to receive asset data from other enterprise inventory systems and to transmit asset data to those other systems. By integrating with human resource systems Kinematic Asset Management Platform can receive employee data e.g. equipment operating qualifications or other qualifications which facilitates assigning vehicles and other assets to the correct operator and to the job to be performed. By integrating with work order systems Kinematic Asset Management Platform can maintain a record of assets which have been consumed in the field and add this data to orders for those consumable assets. By integrating Kinematic Asset Management Platform with field service operations service ordering systems orders taken by customer service representatives can check asset availability to facilitate assigning vehicles to jobs.

In the embodiment of Kinematic Asset Management Platform further comprises an inventory component and an operations component . In various embodiments inventory component comprises a cloud based implementation providing administrator functions including but not limited to account set up identifying allowable users establishing roles and associated access identifying customer input pull down lists for data entry establishing fixed sites and vehicles. User functions provided by inventory component include but are not limited to accessing asset registry creating flexible reports using reports engine and viewing and printing standard reports using reports engine . Inventory component can also be used to generate alerts to reports engine including but not limited to monitoring vehicle asset inventory changes monitoring vehicle locations monitoring vehicle movement monitoring fixed site inventory changes establishing minimum inventory levels by item for sites establishing minimum inventory levels by item for vehicles and generating alerts when minimum inventory levels are reached.

In accordance with various embodiments operations component comprises a cloud based implementation providing administrator functions including but not limited to account set up identifying allowable users establishing roles and associated access identifying customer input pull down lists for data entry establishing fixed sites and vehicles and setting a radius for dispatch system asset searches. User functions provided by operations component include but are not limited to accessing asset registry creating flexible reports using reports engine viewing and printing standard reports using reports engine and receiving asset alerts e.g. tools left behind at a work site . Operations component also provides monitoring functions including but not limited to monitoring technician usage of tools monitoring technician usage of company infrastructure equipment and materials monitoring usage of customer equipment and materials monitoring technician driver to vehicle assignments monitoring technician driver time spent in driver s seat monitoring technician usage of test sets. Operations component can also be used to generate alerts to reports engine including but not limited to monitoring vehicle asset inventory changes monitoring vehicle locations monitoring vehicle movement generating alerts when a vehicle moves without assets from the vehicles permanent asset list generating real time alert of theft of assets from a vehicle generating real time alerts of theft of assets from a fixed asset storage site generating real time alerts of asset inventory levels generating real time alerts of asset usage responding to real time query of equipment e.g. tool locations materials customer equipment etc. and generating alerts on left behind tools. Additionally operations component can be used to implement dispatch system functions including but not limited to receiving current vehicle locations receiving current asset location by asset name generating alerts when minimum inventory levels are reached generating an alert when a required asset for a dispatch cannot be found implementing real time queries of technician driver assigned to vehicles and implementing real time queries of tools in vehicles.

In operation collects raw observation data of the proximity and identification of tags or labels and converts that data into usable business information such as the locations of vehicles personnel equipment and other business assets. For example a reader coupled with a reader node detects the proximity and identification of an ID tag. This raw observable of the ID tag is associated with the corresponding asset as well as with the container to which that asset is assigned. The location of the container can also be accessed by Kinematic Asset Management Platform to determine the location of the asset by determining which container is associated with the reader and reader node which detected the asset. By accessing the location of that container the location of the asset is also known.

With reference now to all or portions of some embodiments described herein are composed of computer readable and computer executable instructions that reside for example in computer usable computer readable storage media of a computer system. That is illustrates one example of a type of computer computer system that can be used in accordance with or to implement various embodiments e.g. Kinematic Asset Management Platform reader nodes and provisioning stations and which are discussed herein. It is appreciated that computer system of is only an example and that embodiments as described herein can operate on or within a number of different computer systems including but not limited to general purpose networked computer systems embedded computer systems server devices various intermediate devices nodes stand alone computer systems handheld computer systems multi media devices and the like. Computer system of is well adapted to having peripheral computer readable storage media such as for example a floppy disk a compact disc digital versatile disc universal serial bus thumb drive removable memory card and the like coupled thereto.

System of includes an address data bus for communicating information and a processor A coupled to bus for processing information and instructions. As depicted in system is also well suited to a multi processor environment in which a plurality of processors A B and C are present. Conversely system is also well suited to having a single processor such as for example processor A. Processors A B and C may be any of various types of microprocessors. System also includes data storage features such as a computer usable volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM coupled to bus for storing information and instructions for processors A B and C. System also includes computer usable non volatile memory e.g. read only memory ROM coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processors A B and C. Also present in system is a data storage unit e.g. a magnetic or optical disk and disk drive coupled to bus for storing information and instructions. System also includes an optional alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and function keys coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor A or processors A B and C. System also includes an optional cursor control device coupled to bus for communicating user input information and command selections to processor A or processors A B and C. In one embodiment system also includes an optional display device coupled to bus for displaying information.

Referring still to optional display device of may be a liquid crystal device cathode ray tube plasma display device or other display device suitable for creating graphic images and alphanumeric characters recognizable to a user. Optional cursor control device allows the computer user to dynamically signal the movement of a visible symbol cursor on a display screen of display device and indicate user selections of selectable items displayed on display device . Many implementations of cursor control device are known in the art including a trackball mouse touch pad joystick or special keys on alphanumeric input device capable of signaling movement of a given direction or manner of displacement. Alternatively it will be appreciated that a cursor can be directed and or activated via input from alphanumeric input device using special keys and key sequence commands. System is also well suited to having a cursor directed by other means such as for example voice commands System also includes an I O device for coupling system with external entities. For example in one embodiment I O device is a modem for enabling wired or wireless communications between system and an external network such as but not limited to the Internet.

Referring still to various other components are depicted for system . Specifically when present an operating system applications modules and data are shown as typically residing in one or some combination of computer usable volatile memory e.g. RAM computer usable non volatile memory e.g. ROM and data storage unit . In some embodiments all or portions of various embodiments described herein are stored for example as an application and or module in memory locations within RAM computer readable storage media within data storage unit peripheral computer readable storage media and or other tangible computer readable storage media.

In operation of a unique identification of the identification device is received by a reader disposed within a container. In accordance with various embodiments buildings vehicles storage units trailers etc. are treated as containers. As described above the containers of system are equipped with reader devices which are capable of automatically or manually determining the unique identification of the identification device coupled with an asset. Thus the unique identification of an asset identification device coupled with an asset is detected by readers in a container and is stored in the inventory of the reader node coupled with that reader. Again Kinematic Asset Management Platform can associate the unique identification of an asset identification device with that asset to make the logical conclusion that the asset itself has been detected at the location of the reader which detected the asset identification device.

In operation of an inventory record comprising the unique identification is maintained by a reader node disposed within the container. As discussed above each reader node is responsible for maintaining an inventory of assets which have detected in the container to which that reader node is assigned. In one embodiment the reader node maintains a list of the unique identification of each asset identification device which is coupled with an asset. Thus a given reader node can determine whether its inventory has been changed due to the addition or removal of assets from the container which the reader node is monitoring by comparing successive lists of the unique identification of each asset identification device which is coupled with an asset. Thus when an asset is moved or stored within a container of system a reader s disposed within that container will detect the asset identification device and report the presence of that device to a reader node coupled with that reader.

In operation of a report is generated by the reader node when the unique identification is not detected by the reader and the report comprises a location of the container when the report is generated. In accordance with various embodiments the readers e.g. A B C and D of in a container e.g. vehicle of periodically poll for asset identification devices e.g. A of assets located in a container. For example RFID readers generate a wireless signal and receive responses from RFID tags which are within communication range of the RFID reader. Thus if an asset is removed from the container its associated RFID tag will not generate a response comprising the unique identification discussed above if the RFID reader polls for assets within the container. Similarly if an asset is moved into a container e.g. as vehicle it will be detected when the RFID reader next polls for asset within that container. In accordance with various embodiments the reader node e.g. of coupled with the RFID reader will compare asset lists from respective polling instances and determine whether there is a discrepancy between the contents of one inventory e.g. unique identification numbers or alpha numeric sequences and the contents of another. If there is a discrepancy between respective inventories the reader node will generate a report conveying the contents of the latest inventory. In one or more embodiments the reader node can also convey which assets are missing in the latest inventory in comparison with a previous inventory or may convey the contents of one or more previous inventories.

In operation of the data conveyed by the report is stored in an asset registry. As discussed above asset registry of Kinematic Asset Management Platform stores data comprising the unique identification of each asset identification device the attributes of assets in an enterprise and the location of those assets. In various embodiments the last known location of an asset can be included in a report of a missing asset. In addition the location of the container when the report of the missing asset was generated can also be included. This can facilitate determining where the asset was removed from the container and in the possible recovery of that asset.

In operation of a second report is generated conveying a location of the vehicle when the report was generated. As discussed above the location of every container in system is known or can be determined. For example the location of fixed locations is known and stored in Kinematic Asset Management Platform as an attribute. In the case of vehicles the location of the vehicle can be determined using a GNSS receiver e.g. of . In accordance with various embodiments when reader determines that a report to Kinematic Asset Management Platform is to be generated it receives a current location of vehicle which is included in the report. Additionally reader can receive a current location of vehicle each time an inventory or assets within vehicle is performed or in response from a query from Kinematic Asset Management Platform .

In operation an association is established between the unique identification and a second unique identification of a fixed location. As discussed above during the provisioning process an association is made between various objects within an enterprise. Thus an asset identification device has various attributes and can be associated with the asset with which it is coupled. In various embodiments each container e.g. fixed location and mobile location can also be associated with a unique identification e.g. asset ID A and asset ID A of . These asset identifications can be assigned attributes as well. For example asset identification A can be assigned the attribute Infrastructure while asset identification A can be assigned the attribute Vehicle .

In operation an inventory is maintained comprising the asset by a reader node disposed within the fixed location. As described above reader nodes maintain an inventory of the assets which they have detected using their respective readers e.g. RFID readers barcode readers etc. . Typically the inventory is of the unique identification sequences of asset identification devices which are coupled with assets in the vicinity. In various embodiments the reader nodes report the presence or absence of these unique identification sequences rather than that of the assets themselves. Then the correlation of the unique identification sequence with its associated asset is performed by Kinematic Asset Management Platform .

In operation in response to the asset being transferred to a mobile location the asset is added to a second inventory maintained by a second reader node disposed within the mobile location. For example this may comprise transferring the asset from the first inventory to the second inventory when the asset itself is transferred to the mobile location.

In operation detecting the unique identification is detected using a reader disposed within the mobile location. In various embodiments when an asset is moved from a fixed location such as a warehouse into a mobile location such as a vehicle the reader devices installed within the vehicle will automatically detect the presence of that asset. Again the reader nodes actually record the presence of the unique identification sequence rather than the asset itself.

In operation the inventory is reported to a Kinematic Asset Management Platform when the asset has been removed from the fixed location. As described above the reader nodes maintain an inventory of the assets which are respectively assigned to them and or which they are able to detect. Thus when an asset is removed from a fixed location it will no longer be detected by a reader the next time a polling is performed to detect all of the assets within the fixed location. In various embodiments when a reader node determines that an asset has been removed from a fixed site e.g. is no longer detected at the site it will report this to Kinematic Asset Management Platform .

In operation the second inventory is reported to the Kinematic Asset Management Platform when the asset has been added to the second inventory. Again when the reader node of a mobile location such as vehicle determines that a new asset has now been detected it will add this asset to its inventory. In accordance with various embodiments this is simply treated as a transfer of assets from one warehouse e.g. fixed location of to another warehouse e.g. mobile location of . Thus while the fixed asset reports that the asset has been removed the reader node of the mobile location will report the addition of this asset to its inventory.

In operation a reader disposed in a vehicle is used to detect when the asset is present at the vehicle. As discussed above one or more readers e.g. A B C and D of are disposed within vehicle . In various embodiments multiple readers are deployed within a vehicle to facilitate more complete coverage of the interior of the vehicle when polling for assets present. As a result it is less likely that an asset identification will be obscured from a reader when trying to determine which assets are present within vehicle .

In operation a reader node disposed in the vehicle is used to maintain an inventory of assets assigned to the vehicle including the asset of operation . As discussed above reader maintains an inventory of assets assigned to vehicle and or assets which are detected using readers A B C and D.

In operation the reader node determines that the asset is no longer present at the vehicle. In accordance with various embodiments a comparison of successive inventories of assets indicates when assets have been removed from or brought into vehicle . Again this can comprise a comparison of unique identification sequences which identify the asset identification devices e.g. A of present in vehicle .

In operation a report is generated by the reader node when the asset is no longer present at the vehicle and is conveyed via a wireless transceiver. In accordance with various embodiments when successive inventories of assets indicate that assets have been removed from or brought into vehicle reader can initiate generating a report to Kinematic Asset Management Platform indicating the change in inventory. In accordance with various embodiments this is sent using data transceiver of .

In operation the location of the vehicle is determined using a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS receiver. In at least one embodiment when reader initiates a polling of assets within vehicle it receives from GNSS antenna receiver an indication of the location at which vehicle is located. Alternatively reader can receive the indication of the location at which vehicle is located when reader determines a discrepancy between successive inventories.

In operation a request is generated to a plurality of reader nodes disposed at a respective plurality of locations for an inventory of assets within each of the respective plurality of locations. In accordance with various embodiments Kinematic Asset Management Platform generates a request to deployed vehicles within an enterprise as well as to fixed locations to determine where needed assets are currently located. In response the reader nodes initiate polling of assets within their respective areas of responsibility to generate a more current picture of what assets are on hand and where they are located. Alternatively the reader nodes can simply send the results of the last inventory stored at the reader node.

In operation an inventory of assets is received from the respective plurality of locations. In response to the request for respective inventories of assets from all reader nodes of an enterprise or from selected reader nodes in a given region Kinematic Asset Management Platform receives replies from the reader nodes which convey their current or most recent inventory of assets at their location.

In operation it is determined that an asset needed to perform a task is present at a first location. In accordance with various embodiments Kinematic Asset Management Platform is configured to use a relational database management implementation in order to find the desired asset. As discussed above assets are assigned attributes which facilitate finding the correct asset based upon the task to be performed.

In operation accessing a location history of the asset. In accordance with various embodiments Kinematic Asset Management Platform maintains a location history of assets. As noted above the reports from reader nodes can comprise time date as well as location data for each asset detected by the reader nodes communicating with Kinematic Asset Management Platform . In the case of vehicles submitting inventory reports to Kinematic Asset Management Platform additional information such as the speed of the vehicle when the inventory was performed can be included in reports. This information can be used to more accurately recreate a location history of the asset. For example if an asset is detected and reported while a vehicle is moving it is unlikely that the asset has been removed from the vehicle while it is still moving. In another example if an asset is detected at a fixed site or vehicle subsequently reported as missing and then detected again at that same fixed site or vehicle it is more likely that the asset was there the whole time and simply not detected by the RFID interrogator. Thus by using historical analysis of the location of assets Kinematic Asset Management Platform can more accurately implement loss prevention and reporting.

In operation determining that the asset is currently present at the location based upon the location history. As described above Kinematic Asset Management Platform can access the location history of assets in order to more accurately detect the loss or theft of assets. Thus Kinematic Asset Management Platform can actually determine that an asset which may have previously been reported as lost or stolen is in fact still within the enterprise. This will reduce overstocking of assets which might have been ordered based upon false reporting of missing or stolen assets which subsequently appear back into the system.

Embodiments of the present technology are thus described. While the present technology has been described in particular embodiments it should be appreciated that the present technology should not be construed as limited to these embodiments alone but rather construed according to the following claims.

