---

title: Integrated hosted directory
abstract: Methods, systems, and devices for enterprise-wide management of disparate devices, applications, and users are described. A cloud-based central server may maintain an integrated hosted directory, which may allow user authentication, authorization, and management of information technology (IT) resources across device types, operating systems, and software-as-a-service (SaaS) and on-premises applications. IT resources for multiple and separate customers may be managed from a single, central directory, and servers may be brought online to allow access to the directory according to system loading.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641530&OS=09641530&RS=09641530
owner: JumpCloud, Inc.
number: 09641530
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150602
---
Information technology IT and networking is increasingly leveraging remote servers and disparate resources. Organizations often rely on internet based IT infrastructures to serve employees and clients who may be located around the globe. A single enterprise may utilize devices including laptops desktops phones tablets printers etc. located on premise within remote data centers and hosted at remote third party owned servers the cloud . Consequently managing IT infrastructure has become time consuming labor intensive and tedious. Additionally many organizations are relying on a software as a service SaaS based model for applications content and the like and such this SaaS based model does not lend itself to traditional on premises management.

While the trend toward cloud and SaaS based infrastructure has been effective on many fronts it has introduced a number of challenges related to system administration and user authentication. The disparate nature of servers devices applications and users has given rise to increased networking complexity security concerns and poor interoperability of resources. A central means of managing cloud and SaaS resources and authenticating users for those resources may thus increase the efficiency and productivity of cloud based IT infrastructure.

Methods systems and devices that support a central directory for enterprise wide management of disparate devices applications and users are described. Within a networked cloud based computing system a central server may maintain an integrated hosted directory which may allow user authentication authorization and management of IT resources across devices types operating systems and SaaS and on premises applications. Portions of the directory may be shared with or mirrored on various cloud based and on premises servers to increase access and usability by system administrators. Furthermore IT resources for multiple separate customers may be managed from a single central directory and servers may be brought online to allow access to the directory according to system loading.

A method of multitenant directory management is described. The method may include accessing a directory at a central server and the directory comprises IT resources for a plurality of customers activating a first edge server of a plurality of edge servers transmitting a first portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server and the first portion of the directory may include IT resources for a first customer of the plurality of customers transmitting a second portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server and the second portion of the directory may include IT resources for a second customer of the plurality of customers activating a second edge server of the plurality of edge servers based at least in part on a system load from the plurality of customers transmitting the first and second portions of the directory to the second edge server and authenticating a first user for access to the first portion of the directory at the first and second edge servers utilizing a first protocol.

A system for multitenant directory management is also described. The system may include a central server which may include a directory or IT resources for a plurality of customers a directory server that supports access to the directory using a first protocol a console server in communication with the directory server where the console server may provide a user interface for web based access to the directory and an agent server in electronic communication with the directory server and the console server where the agent server may control server agents located on remote devices and may support agent access to the directory. The system may also include a first edge server in electronic communication with the directory server and the first edge server may support access to the directory using the first protocol and may host a first portion of the directory for a first customer of the plurality of customers and a second portion of the directory for a second customer of the plurality of customers a second edge server in electronic communication with the directory server and operable to activate if a system load from the plurality of customers is greater than a first threshold and to deactivate if the system load from the plurality of customers is less than a second threshold where the second edge server may support access to the directory using the first protocol and the second edge server may host the first portion of the directory for the first customer or the second portion of the directory for the second customer or both and an authentication server in electronic communication with the central server where the authentication server may authenticate users from the plurality of customers for access to the first or second portions of the directory using a second protocol that is different from the first protocol.

A central server for multitenant directory management is also described. The central server may include a processor memory in electronic communication with the processor and instructions stored in the memory and operable when executed by the processor to cause the central server to access a directory of IT resources for a plurality of customers transmit a first portion of the directory to a first edge server where the first portion of the directory may include IT resources for a first customer of the plurality of customers transmit a second portion of the directory to the first edge server where the second portion of the directory may include IT resources for a second customer of the plurality of customers transmit the first portion or second portion of the directory to a second edge server where the second edge server may be operable to activate if a system load from the plurality of customers is greater than a first threshold and to deactivate if the system load from the plurality of customers is less than a second threshold authenticate a first user for access to the first portion of the directory at the first or second edge server base at least in part on a request received from the first or second edge server and authenticate a second user for access to the second portion of the directory at the first edge server based at least in part on a request received from the first edge server.

A central directory for enterprise wide management of disparate devices applications and users may allow IT system administrators to authenticate users across device types operating systems on premises applications or SaaS based applications. For instance users e.g. organizational employees devices and applications may be populated into a central store via a web based console. Permissions may be assigned for all IT resources e.g. devices applications file systems files etc. within consoles such that once populated the system administrator may readily manage users and IT resources from a single location. The console may also allow users to manage through a self service portal certain functions like password resets profiles and certificate based keys to IT resources to which those users have permissions. The integrated hosted directory may thus reduce management complexity.

Additionally a single directory may host resources for several different organizations. Unlike traditional or pre cloud directories the integrated hosted directory described herein may provide for management of IT resources and users from different customers e.g. enterprises . This multitenant directory management may allow for selective administration and permission granting between customers. That is users from one customer may be granted permission to devices applications files and the like of other customers providing a simple seamless way of managing IT resources across organizations.

Aspects of the disclosure are initially described below in the context of a system that supports multitenant directory management. Various examples of an integrated hosted directory and web based console are then described. These and other aspects of the disclosure are further illustrated by and described with reference to apparatus diagrams system diagrams and flowcharts that relate to multitenant directory management.

The central server may include a directory server which may host a directory and which may support access to the directory using e.g. a particular protocol. In some examples the directory server supports access to the directory using Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP . The central server may also include a console server which may provide a user interface for web based access to the directory. In some examples the central server also includes an agent server that controls server agents located on remote devices and may support agent access to the directory.

In some cases the system includes a number of edge servers . Edge servers may be located physically near a customer and physically remote from the central server . Edge servers may reflect replicated portions of the central server but their location proximate to a customer may as compared to an exclusively centralized system reduce latency reduce data transmission costs increase quality of service QoS and the like. Moreover edge servers may be scalable such that additional servers may be activated e.g. spun up to accommodate and respond to increases in system loading.

For instance portions of the directory housed on central server may be reflected e.g. transmitted to edge server . Users may access the directory or portion of the directory at edge server utilizing the same protocol as they would to access the directory at the central server e.g. LDAP . If system loading as experienced at edge server exceeds a threshold an additional edge server may be activated. For example if a number of users attempting access exceeds a preset value or if latency reaches a particular threshold e.g. a time delay which may be on the order of tenths or tens of a second edge server may be spun up. By way of example system loading may be based on central processing unit CPU usage of edge server . If a threshold CPU usage exceeds a threshold e.g. 80 percent of capacity edge server may be activated. In other examples a threshold may be based on memory usage disk input output I O a number of customer request or the like. In such cases the portions of the directory reflected on edge server may also be reflected or transmitted to . If system loading falls below the threshold or some other threshold value edge server may be taken offline. Alternatively if system loading continues to increase beyond a subsequent threshold an additional edge server may be activated and the portions of the directory may be reflected to it.

The system may also support certain authentication authorization and management on the premises of customers. For example on premises or on prem server which may be physically located on the premises of a first customer may include a replica module . Replica module may host a portion of the directory with IT resources of accessible to or managed by the first customer. That is a portion of the directory hosted on central server may be reflected to replica module . This may be via an edge server in some cases. The devices may thus in some examples be managed by and may be included in the portion of the directory hosted by replica module . Additionally or alternatively the devices may include computing devices of various types e.g. mobile phones tablets notebook computers desktop computers servers etc. which may utilize various operating systems. Replica module may thus provide a familiar local version of the directory which may be securely maintained and readily accessed by the first customer. As used herein on premises may refer to a server device or the like that is within the control of the customer. In some cases this may include servers located in a remote data center owned or controlled by the customer which may be contrasted with servers maintained or controlled by a third party and accessible to the customer via the internet e.g. cloud servers .

Additionally on premises server which may be physically located on the premises of a second customer may include a replica module . Replica module may host a portion of the directory with IT resources of accessible to or managed by the second customer. Similar to replica module a portion of the directory hosted on central server may be reflected to replica module . But these portions may be different e.g. include different users IT resources etc. . The devices may be managed by and may be included in the portion of the directory hosted by replica module . Additionally or alternatively the devices may include computing devices of various types e.g. mobile phones tablets notebook computers desktop computers servers etc. which may utilize various operating systems

In some cases system includes a single sign on SSO server . The SSO server may provide access to or may be represented in the directory. The SSO server may facilitate assertion of a user s identity to a third party using for instance an authentication protocol such as Security Markup Language SAML OpenID OAuth or the like. Thus users who have been authenticated at the central server or an edge server replica module etc. may gain access to third party applications websites content or the like without the necessity of an additional credentialing process. That is a user authorized by the system may avoid entering login credentials with certain trusted and trusting third parties. In some cases the SSO server may facilitate access to the central server thus the directory hosted there without the necessity of further user authentication. For instance a user authenticated by a trusted third party may gain access to the central server without the necessity of further credentialing.

In some examples system includes a separate authentication server . The authentication server may authenticate users from various customers to the central server . For example a user may access the authentication server with a device and may authenticate with the authentication server . This may involve the user entering a username and password. This authentication process may include the authentication server exchanging a ticket or key with a device of the user. The user may then access the central server or an edge server for instance based on the authentication with the authentication server which may include the user s device exchanging the ticket or key. In some examples the authentication server utilizes Kerberos to facilitate authentication. In some examples the central server or edge servers may also employ Kerberos.

As mentioned above aspects of the system may be accessible by and managed through a web based console . The console may include or be a user interface that provides access to maintain a directory or portions of the directory hosted on central server . As depicted in the example of the console may provide remote access to the central server via an Internet connection and for instance a wireless access point . Those skilled in the art will recognize however that because central server may be a cloud server remote access to central server may be achieved in a variety of ways. As discussed in further detail with reference to the console may allow an IT system administrator to manage user permissions monitor access to various applications or files and the like. The console may be or employ a representational state transfer REST application programmer interface API . The REST API may be used to search a directory query the directory or provision users for access to the directory via the console . Additionally or alternatively the REST API may be used for authentication to the directory via the console .

The system may in some cases include access by a device hosting a server agent . The device may be any type of computing device including a server. Server agent may be a software module e.g. computer or processor executable code that is configured to run certain software on device . The server agent may be equipped with various submodules including those for caching tasks or schedules storing or registering user encryption certificates or processing and executing commands. In some examples the server agent is capable of executing any number of commands or tasks. For instance the server agent may perform server functions related to user management disk space management log monitoring changing system configurations sending and receiving emails or identifying and neutralizing security threats. The central server may allow the server agent to access a directory upon receiving a command via console . In some examples credentials may be pushed from the central server to the server agent . The server agent may be preconfigured to authenticate a user as though the user was directly accessing or attempting to access the directory itself. In such cases when a user authenticates to a device e.g. console where the server agent is hosted the server agent may accomplish the authentication independently providing user access to the directory.

In certain examples system also includes a remote authentication server in communication with an edge server . The remote authentication server may authenticate guest users of virtual private network VPN users for access to the directory reflected at the edge server . For instance remote authentication server may provide access to a visiting user who connects to the system via wireless access point . Additionally or alternatively remote authentication server may authenticate users from customers described above who are off premises and are accessing the central server via VPN. In some examples remote authentication server employs Remote Authentication Dial In User Server RADIUS or some other protocol that supports authentication authorization and accounting. In some examples the central server or edge servers may also employ RADIUS.

The various elements components servers and devices of system may be connected to one another wirelessly or with wired connections. In some cases they are connected via the Internet. Communication between the various devices may utilize Transport Layer Security TLS Secure Sockets Layer SSL or some other security or encryption protocol. As used herein the term server refers to a computer or program in a network that provides services including access to applications files peripherals etc. to other computers or programs or consoles within a network. As discussed below this may include both software and hardware and real and virtual machines. In some examples a server is a computer program that operates to support or perform tasks on behalf of other programs computers or users. Further as used herein a server may include a rack or enclosure housing computer hardware and software.

The system may thus support multitenant directory management. This may be accomplished in part with an integrated hosted directory on central server which may facilitate authentication authorization and management of IT resources across devices types operating systems and SaaS and on premises applications.

The example of illustrates one depiction of a directory . The directory may include fields or modules representative of users and IT resources such as file system devices files and instances . The directory may thus include a reference or references to IT resources. Additionally or alternatively the directory may be said to reference IT resources. For example the users may be users associated with one or several customers. The directory may provide a mapping to a file system or file systems to which users have access. The file system may in some cases represent applications such as SaaS applications. The users may also be mapped to certain devices which may be mapped to certain files to which a user or devices or both has permissions. The devices may be representative of devices of . The files may be mapped to instances which may provide details or information relevant to managing access by users .

The directory includes an arbitrary set of fields and modules for purposes of illustration. Those skilled in the art will recognize that a directory may take on a number of forms and may include fields different from those illustrated here.

The UI may provide real time information about user interactions with the directory via window . For instance the window may display information about a particular user s permissions to access various IT resources. In some cases the window may also provide information about current and historic uses of such IT resources. Various devices applications security issues and the like related to a particular user may thus be monitored and managed via UI .

At a directory at a central server may be accessed. The directory may be as described with reference to and may include IT resources for a plurality of customers such as customers having users .

At a first edge server may be activated and at a first portion of the directory may be transmitted from the central server to the first edge server . The first portion of the directory may include IT resources for a first customer of the plurality of customers. At a second portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server . The second portion of the directory may include IT resources for a second customer of the plurality of customers.

At a second edge server may be activated based for instance on a system load from the plurality of customers. For instance the system load may exceed a threshold as described above with reference to . At the first portion of the directory may be transmitted from the central server to the second edge server and at the second portion of the directory may be transmitted from the central server to the second edge server 

At a first user may be authenticated for access to the first portion of the directory at the first and second edge servers utilizing a first protocol. The first user may attempt to access a web based application using a device for example and the directory may provide a mapping of that user s permission for such access. At a second use may be authenticated for access to the second portion of the directory at the first edge and second edge servers utilizing the first protocol.

At a third user may be authenticated for access to the first or second portion of the directory utilizing a second protocol that is different from the first protocol. This may include at the third user accessing a remote authentication server which may communicate with an edge server or the central server to facilitate authentication. In some examples the first protocol is LDAP and the second protocol is Kerberos.

At the central server may identify a command received via web based console and at the central server may receive a request for directory access from a server agent located on a remote device . The central server may in response at transmit data to the server agent on remote device in response to the request for directory access.

In some cases at the first portion of the directory may be transmitted from the first edge server to a portion of an on premises server of the first customer. As described above the on premises server may include a replica module which may be described as an LDAP sync replica or LDAP gateway and which may be a copy of the first portion of the directory reflected at the on premises server 

At the central server may be in communication with the SSO server to support identity assertion to a third party on behalf of a customer of the plurality of customers. As described above the identity assertion may be on the SSO server accessing the directory on the central server and the SSO server may utilize at least one of SAML OpenID or OAuth.

The directory server module may be an example of the directory server module of and may host a directory . Some or all of the directory may be accessible to other components of the central server . The directory server module may in some cases and in combination with other components of the central server access the directory transmit portions of the directory and authentication users for access to the directory as described with reference to .

The console server module may in combination with other components of the central server identify a command received via a web based console as described with reference to . In some cases the console server module facilitates the operations described with reference to .

The agent server module may cause the central server receive a request for directory access from a server agent located on a remote device. In some cases the agent server module in combination with other components of the central server may transmit data to the server agent in response to the request for directory access and based on the identified command as described with reference to .

The central server may include a processor memory including software firmware SW and a network communications module . The various modules of the central server may be in communication via one or more buses . The network communications module may be configured for secure bi directional communication with other devices servers and the like in a system such as system of via one or more wired or wireless links. For example the network communications module may include a modem configured to modulate packets and transmit them to and to demodulate received packets.

The memory may include random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . The memory may store computer readable computer executable software firmware code including instructions that when executed cause the processor to perform various functions described herein e.g. facilitating multitenant directory management. . Alternatively the software firmware code may not be directly executable by the processor but cause a computer e.g. when compiled and executed to perform functions described herein. The processor may include an intelligent hardware device e.g. a central processing unit CPU a microcontroller an ASIC etc. .

The first customer directory module and the second customer directory module may receive host and provide authenticated access to first and second portions of a directory respectively from a central server as described with reference to . The preceding description has generally discussed a first and second portion of the directory for first and second customers. Additional customers may be supported by the directory e.g. of . Thus in some cases an nth customer directory module may receive host and provide authenticated access to an nth portion of the directory from a central server .

The edge server may include a processor memory including software firmware SW and a network communications module . The various modules of the edge server may be in communication via one or more buses . The network communications module may be configured for secure bi directional communication with other devices servers and the like in a system such as system of via one or more wired or wireless links. For example the network communications module may include a modem configured to modulate packets and transmit them to and to demodulate received packets.

The memory may include random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . The memory may store computer readable computer executable software firmware code including instructions that when executed cause the processor to perform various functions described herein e.g. facilitating multitenant directory management. . Alternatively the software firmware code may not be directly executable by the processor but cause a computer e.g. when compiled and executed to perform functions described herein. The processor may include an intelligent hardware device e.g. a central processing unit CPU a microcontroller an ASIC etc. 

The components of central server and edge server may each individually or collectively be implemented with at least one ASIC adapted to perform some or all of the applicable functions in hardware. Alternatively the functions may be performed by one or more other processing units or cores on at least one IC. In other examples other types of integrated circuits may be used e.g. Structured Platform ASICs an FPGA or another semi custom IC which may be programmed in any manner known in the art. The functions of each unit may also be implemented in whole or in part with instructions embodied in a memory formatted to be executed by one or more general or application specific processors.

At block the central server may access a directory at the central server where the directory comprises IT resources for a plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may activate a first edge server of the plurality of edge servers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit a first portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server where the first portion of the directory includes IT resources for a first customer of the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit a second portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server where the second portion of the directory comprises IT resources for a second customer of the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may activate a second edge server of the plurality of edge servers based at least in part on a system load from the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit the first and second portions of the directory to the second edge server as described in . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server or one or more edge servers may authenticate a first user for access to the first portion of the directory at the first and second edge servers utilizing a first protocol as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may access a directory at the central server where the directory comprises IT resources for a plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may activate a first edge server of the plurality of edge servers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit a first portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server where the first portion of the directory includes IT resources for a first customer of the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit a second portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server where the second portion of the directory comprises IT resources for a second customer of the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may activate a second edge server of the plurality of edge servers based at least in part on a system load from the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit the first and second portions of the directory to the second edge server as described in . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server or one or more edge servers may authenticate a first user for access to the first portion of the directory at the first and second edge servers utilizing a first protocol as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may identify a command received via a web based console as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the console server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may receive a request for directory access from a server agent located on a remote device as describe with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the agent server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit data to the server agent in response to the request for directory access based at least in part on the identified command as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the agent server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may access a directory at the central server where the directory comprises IT resources for a plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may activate a first edge server of the plurality of edge servers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit a first portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server where the first portion of the directory includes IT resources for a first customer of the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit a second portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server where the second portion of the directory comprises IT resources for a second customer of the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may activate a second edge server of the plurality of edge servers based at least in part on a system load from the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit the first and second portions of the directory to the second edge server as described in . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server or one or more edge servers may authenticate a first user for access to the first portion of the directory at the first and second edge servers utilizing a first protocol as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may authenticate a second user for access to the second portion of the directory at the first edge and second edge servers utilizing the first protocol as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server or the authentication server or both may authenticate a third user for access to the first or second portion of the directory utilizing a second protocol that is different from the first protocol as described with reference to and . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may communicate with an authentication server that supports authentication using the second protocol where the third user may be authenticated via a request to the authentication server as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may access a directory at the central server where the directory comprises IT resources for a plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may activate a first edge server of the plurality of edge servers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit a first portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server where the first portion of the directory includes IT resources for a first customer of the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit a second portion of the directory from the central server to the first edge server where the second portion of the directory comprises IT resources for a second customer of the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may activate a second edge server of the plurality of edge servers based at least in part on a system load from the plurality of customers as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server may transmit the first and second portions of the directory to the second edge server as described in . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module or network communications module as described with reference to .

At block the central server or one or more edge servers may authenticate a first user for access to the first portion of the directory at the first and second edge servers utilizing a first protocol as described with reference to . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module as described with reference to .

At block the central server and one or more edge servers may transmit the first portion of the directory from the first edge server to a portion of an on premises server of the first customer as described in . In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module and the network communications module as described with reference to or the first customer directory module and the network communications module as describe with reference to .

At block the central server may communicate with a single sign on server to support identity assertion to a third party on behalf of a customer of the plurality of customers as described with reference to . The identity assertion may be based at least in part on the single sign on server accessing the directory. In certain examples the operations of block may be performed by the directory server module and the network communications module as described with reference to .

Thus methods and may provide for multitenant directory management which may utilize an integrated hosted directory. It should be noted that methods and describe possible implementations and that the operations and the steps may be rearranged or otherwise modified such that other implementations are possible. In some examples aspects from two or more of the methods and may be combined.

The description herein provides examples and is not limiting of the scope applicability or examples set forth in the claims. Changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements discussed without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Various examples may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. Also features described with respect to some examples may be combined in other examples.

The description set forth herein in connection with the appended drawings describes example configurations and does not represent all the examples that may be implemented or that are within the scope of the claims. The term exemplary as may be used herein means serving as an example instance or illustration and not preferred or advantageous over other examples. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing an understanding of the described techniques. These techniques however may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the described examples.

In the appended figures similar components or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If just the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

Information and signals described herein may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

The various illustrative blocks and modules described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a DSP an ASIC an FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a digital signal processor DSP and a microprocessor multiple microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration .

The functions described herein may be implemented in hardware software executed by a processor firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software executed by a processor the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Other examples and implementations are within the scope of the disclosure and appended claims. For example due to the nature of software functions described above can be implemented using software executed by a processor hardware firmware hardwiring or combinations of any of these. Features implementing functions may also be physically located at various positions including being distributed such that portions of functions are implemented at different physical locations. Also as used herein including in the claims or as used in a list of items for example a list of items prefaced by a phrase such as at least one of or one or more of indicates an inclusive list such that for example a list of at least one of A B or C means A or B or C or AB or AC or BC or ABC i.e. A and B and C .

Computer readable media includes both non transitory computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A non transitory storage medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation non transitory computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM compact disk CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transitory medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The description herein is provided to enable a person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the broadest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

