---

title: System and method for short message services to an instant messaging conversion
abstract: Implementations of the present disclosure involve systems and methods for federating communications between a first network that transmits and receives messages formatted in a first format and a second network that transmits and receives messages formatted in a second format. The systems and methods are configured to receive a message from the first network formatted in the first format. The system then converts the message into a unified format that may be sent to the second network. After receiving the message in the unified format, the message may then be converted into the format of the second network and sent on the second network like any other message on the second network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09445247&OS=09445247&RS=09445247
owner: Vail Systems, Inc.
number: 09445247
owner_city: Deerfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151116
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 612 638 filed on Sep. 12 2012 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SHORT MESSAGE SERVICES TO INSTANT MESSAGING CONVERSION which claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 533 885 filed on Sep. 13 2011 titled SMS TO IP CONVERSION. Each of these applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to network communications. More specifically embodiments herein relate to the conversion between communications using short message services SMS format and instant messaging IM format.

Instant messaging is a form of communication over the internet that allows for the near instantaneous transmission and receipt of text based messages between two or more computer users. IM allows for users to have near real time conversations over a computer network such as the internet independent of the location of the users. IM generally works by having an IM client installed on a user computer that connects to an IM system or IM server. The IM client allows a user to select a person to send an IM to enter in texts for the IM and receive IMs from other IM users. Examples of IM clients include Microsoft Lync IBM Lotus Sametime and Google Talk.

Due to IM s speed and ease of use IM has become prevalent in the modern workplace. Employers large and small often include internal IM clients to help improve communication and collaboration between employees. IM messaging allows for an employee to quickly contact other employees and receive prompt responses.

SMS is a text messaging component of cellular phones that allows a phone operator to nearly instantly send a text based message to another cellular phone. SMS messages use a standardized communication protocol that allows for a message up to 160 7 bit characters to be sent at a time. Longer messages may be broken into a series of text messages. As the use of cellular phones has proliferated SMS messaging has become increasingly popular. The introduction of smart phones and their ability to quickly and easily send SMS messages has further increased the use of SMS messaging. SMS messaging has further evolved to also include multimedia message services MMS which added the ability to send multimedia files such as photographs and videos via cellular networks.

Currently these two systems operate independently from each other. Oftentimes in commercial buildings cellular service can be poor unreliable or nonexistent leading to communication issues with people outside of the enterprise environment. Additionally SMS messages sent to employee telephones are often logged or stored in a way that is accessible to by a companies communications environment. This communications may be later overlooked or even lost if an employees phone is lost.

It is with these and other issues in mind that various aspects of the present disclosure were developed. Thus techniques are described herein to improve the reliability and ease of communications with those inside of the enterprise environment.

Implementations of the present disclosure involve a system and method for federating communications between a first network that transmits and receives messages formatted in a first format and a second network that transmits and receives messages formatted in a second format. The system and method are configured to receive a message from the first network formatted in the first format. The system then converts the message into a unified format that may be sent to the second network. After receiving the message in the unified format the message may then be converted into the format of the second network and sent on the second network like any other message on the second network.

Implementations of the present disclosure also involve a system for converting messages sent on a first network and formatted in a first format to a destination on a second network and formatted in a second format. The system includes a gateway and a federation interface. The gateway is configured to convert messages between the first format and the unified format. Messages received at the gateway in the first format are converted to the unified format and sent to the federation interface. Messages received at the gateway formatted in the unified format are converted to the first format and sent to the first network. The federation interface is configured to convert messages between the unified format and the second format. Messages received at the federation interface in the unified format are converted to the second format and sent to the second network. Messages received in the second format are converted to the unified format and sent to the gateway.

Throughout the drawing figures like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts and components.

Implementations of the present disclosure involve a system and method for sending SMS messages from a cellular phone to an IM client located on an enterprise network as well as sending an IM message from the IM client located on the enterprise network to a cellular phone via an SMS message. In either direction the messages are converted to a unified format that is used to bridge between SMS and IM protocols depending on whether the message originates as an SMS message or an IM message. The system may automatically and seamlessly convert SMS or IM messages to a unified format so that SMS systems may be federated with an enterprise s IM system. Federation involves the implementation of a system that allows for two previously disconnected systems to communicate or transfer data and extends the ability of the systems to communicate with users otherwise not invisible to the other system. The SMS and IM systems may be federated to allow for increase ease and reliability of communication between parties.

Referring to a system and method for federating communications between two communications networks is depicted. The rectangular elements are herein denoted as steps and represent computer software instructions or groups of instructions that carry out such functions. The flow diagrams do not necessarily depict the syntax of any particular programming language. Rather the flow diagrams illustrate the functional information one of ordinary skill in the art could use to fabricate circuits or to generate computer software or a hybrid of both circuits and software code to carry out the features as described herein.

It should be noted that many routine program elements such as initialization of loops and variables and the use of temporary variables are inherent in the flowcharts. It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that unless otherwise indicated herein the particular sequence of steps described is illustrative only and can be varied without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus unless otherwise stated the steps described below are unordered meaning that when possible the steps can be performed in any convenient or desirable order.

In this embodiment a message may be sent in first network using a first message format operation and directed towards a user on a second network that uses a second message format. In this example the first network and the second network are not configured to directly communicate with each other. In order for the message to be received by the user on the second network the message may be converted to a unified message format operation that the second network is capable of receiving. The message encoded in the unified message format may then be sent to the second network operation . Once the message has been received it may again be reformatted this time to the second message format operation . Once the message is in the second message format it may be sent on the second network and be received by the destination user operation . The user on the second network may use the same methodology to send a user on the first network a message.

Referring to and an embodiment of a system above that is directed towards translating and delivering SMS messages to an IM client in a unified communications environment that is not able to directly receive SMS messages is depicted. A sending party may enter a text message into his or her SMS endpoint such as a traditional cellular phone smart phone tablet or any other similar type device capable of using SMS protocol operation . The sending party may address and send the SMS text message via a communications network to a receiving party identified by the receiving party s telephone number. The receiving party s device may or may not be configured to receive a SMS message in a conventional way but is connected to a unified communications system .

The communications network may include a series of networks switching centers aggregators and gateways configured to route a SMS message from one SMS endpoint to another. The communications network on the other hand is not capable of directly accessing or sending or receiving data to or from the unified communications system .

With the example of an SMS originating message the carrier switching center may receive SMS messages which may include data voice and other information from the SMS endpoint and determine how to appropriately route the received SMS messages data and voice. SMS messages may be routed to the SMS aggregator which may in turn route the SMS messages operation through a network via one or more gateways . The SMS message may be converted to a unified message format operation and routed to a centralized unified communication environment operation .

The carrier switching center may include a system of electronic devices configured to route and connect mobile devices to other telecommunications devices on the carrier s network. The SMS endpoint may send messages to a carrier switching center . The carrier switching center may receive the SMS messages which may include data text images voice and other information from the SMS endpoint and determine how to appropriately route the received SMS messages. People of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the use or non use of a carrier switching center will depend on the nature of the SMS endpoint used by the calling party and the nature of the SMS endpoint associated with the called number. For example and as is depicted in and a call initiated with a cellular telephone may utilize the carrier switching center . Carrier switching centers are commonly used if the sending party and receiving party do not share the same cellular service carrier.

A SMS aggregator may include a system of electronic devices specifically configured to route SMS messages to the appropriate carrier. The SMS aggregator receives SMS messages from a variety of carriers and routes them to their final location. The SMS aggregator may also temporarily store SMS messages when a SMS endpoint is unavailable or powered off and send the SMS message to the SMS endpoint when the endpoint becomes available again. In this example the SMS aggregator receives the SMS message from the carrier switching center recognizes the destination address of the SMS message and relays the SMS message to the gateway which is associated with the Unified communications environment.

A telecommunications gateway may include a network component configured to interface two networks that use different protocols. For example the carrier switching center and the SMS aggregator operate on cellular or other telecommunications networks. The gateway may operate as an interface with those telecommunications networks and a computing network which may include a typical Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP network such as the Internet or an intranet. In various embodiments the gateway may be connected to the same or an alternate network such as a cellular network public switched telephone network Internet Protocol based network or any similar type of network. Once the SMS message reaches the centralized communication environment the SMS message may travel through a second gateway that interfaces the network to the centralized unified communication environment .

The centralized unified communication environment may include a set of products software and devices configured to provide a consistent unified user interface and user experience across a series of devices. This allows for a series of communications mediums such as IM voice telephone email and conferencing or collaboration tools to be seamlessly integrated. For example the centralized unified communication environment may be a Microsoft Lync unified communications environment that ties the users corporate profile to a phone number an IM username voicemail or any other communications mediums available at the user s office. Once the centralized unification communication environment is reached the SMS message may then be translated to an Instant Message IM protocol message that is compatible with the centralized unification communication environment operation . The IM may then be sent to the receiving party according to the designated telephone number operation .

The centralized unification communication environment and the enterprise unified communication environment may communicate through a federated environment utilizing the federation application programming interface . A federated environment allows for interoperability between two separate autonomous or semi autonomous systems such as the centralized unified communication environment and the enterprise unified communication environment . The federation application programming interface may be configured to send and receive information from each communication environment and translate the information into a format that each communication environment may be able to understand. This federation allows for each communication environment to operate as autonomously as possible yet still provide each other with any information needed for the communication environment to function. Thus the unified communication environment can receive translate and resend messages originally sent in SMS protocol in a translated IM protocol and vise versa.

In the example depicted in the centralized unified communication environment contains a federation application programming interface . The federation application programming interface is capable of translating the SMS message protocol to IM protocol. From there the IM message can be sent to one of perhaps a plurality of possible enterprise unified communication environments which is federated with the centralized unified communication environment . A person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize at least one advantage of the embodiment as depicted in is that one federation application programming interface can service any number of different enterprise unified communication environments . From the enterprise unified communication environment the IM message can be delivered to the receiving party s communication device . The receiving party s communication device can be for example a cellular telephone personal computer or any other electronic device capable of receiving and displaying SMS or IM messages.

In yet another embodiment is depicted in the form of a system . shows a system similar to that of however in the federation application programming interface is located within the enterprise unified communication environment . Consequently in the enterprise customer would install the federation application programming interface within its own systems as opposed to relying on a federation application programming interface within the centralized unified communication environment .

Main memory can be Random Access Memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device s commonly known in the art. Read only memory can be any static storage device s such as Programmable Read Only Memory PROM chips for storing static information such as instructions for processor . Mass storage can be used to store information and instructions. For example hard disks such as the Adaptec family of Small Computer Serial Interface SCSI drives Parallel AT Attachment PATA drives Serial AT Attachment SATA drives FLASH drives an optical disc an array of disks such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID such as the Adaptec family of RAID drives or any other mass storage devices may be used.

Bus communicatively couples processor s with the other memory storage and communications blocks. Bus can be a PCI PCI X SCSI or Universal Serial Bus USB based system bus or other depending on the storage devices used. Removable storage media can be any kind of external hard drives floppy drives OMEGA Zip Drives Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disc Re Writable CD RW Digital Video Disk Read Only Memory DVD ROM Blu ray Disc BD etc.

Embodiments herein may be provided as a computer program product which may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical discs CD ROMs magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Moreover embodiments herein may also be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer to a requesting computer by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. modem or network connection .

As shown main memory is encoded with Protocol Translation Application that supports functionality as discussed above and as discussed further below. Protocol Translation Application and or other resources as described herein can be embodied as software code such as data and or logic instructions e.g. code stored in the memory or on another computer readable medium such as a disk that supports processing functionality according to different embodiments described herein. During operation of one embodiment processor s accesses main memory via the use of bus in order to launch run execute interpret or otherwise perform the logic instructions of the Protocol Translation Application . Execution of Protocol Translation Application produces processing functionality in Protocol Translation Process . In other words the Protocol Translation Process represents one or more portions of the Protocol Translation Application performing within or upon the processor s in the computer system .

It should be noted that in addition to the Protocol Translation Process that carries out method operations as discussed herein other embodiments herein include the Protocol Translation Application itself i.e. the un executed or non performing logic instructions and or data . The Protocol Translation Application may be stored on a computer readable medium e.g. a repository such as a floppy disk hard disk or in an optical medium. According to other embodiments the Protocol Translation Application can also be stored in a memory type system such as in firmware read only memory ROM or as in this example as executable code within the main memory e.g. within Random Access Memory or RAM . For example Protocol Translation Application may also be stored in removable storage media read only memory and or mass storage device .

As discussed herein various embodiments may include various steps or operations. A variety of these steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the operations. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

For example referring again to the flow charts depict processing steps representing processing operations performed by the Protocol Translation Process i.e. Protocol Translation Application and or the run time implementation of Protocol Translation Process in accordance with one example embodiment. Furthermore it should be understood that the alternative embodiments described below with relation to and may also represent processing operations performed by the Protocol Translation process .

Referring now to a method of converting an SMS message to an IM message is depicted. An SMS message may be sent by an SMS end point . A carrier or service provider may then receive the SMS message and relay the SMS message to the appropriate destination operation . For example a carrier or service provider will generally evaluate a SMS message s destination to determine whether the destination is associated with the carrier or service provider network. If the destination is located on the carrier or service provider network then the carrier or service provider will typically route the SMS message directly to the destination. If the destination is not located on the carrier or service provider network the carrier or service provider will send the message to an SMS aggregator operation . The SMS aggregator typically functions as a central repository of information regarding the carrier or service provider for the destination phone number and provides a means for routing the SMS message to that carrier or service provider. This may be performed using a database of phone numbers along with the correct carrier or service provider for each number. When the SMS aggregator receives an SMS message the SMS aggregator determines such as through a database query or look up the proper carrier or service provider for the SMS message and forwards the SMS messages accordingly. In this example the SMS aggregator forwards the SMS message to a gateway operation . The gateway may first determine whether the destination number is associated with a SMS IM Enterprise operation . If the destination is not associated with a SMS IM Enterprise the gateway may route the SMS message like a typical SMS message operation . If the destination is an SMS IM Enterprise the SMS message may then be sent to the SMS IM Gateway application operation . The SMS IM gateway application may access a global SMS to IM database to determine a destination enterprise network that the destination is connected to and then convert the SMS message to a unified communications format such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure or any other proprietary or non proprietary communications format operation . The SMS to IM database may include information regarding whether a number is associated with a SMS to IM enterprise and include any other unified communication environment information used for identifying how to route SMS to IM messages. The unified communications formatted message may then be sent to the appropriate SMS IM enterprise application operation located within the destination enterprise network. The SMS IM gateway application may then convert the unified communications formatted message into the appropriate IM format for the enterprise operation and communicate the message to the IM client operation .

Referring now to a method for converting an IM message to a SMS client is depicted. A user may enter an IM message into an IM client running on their computer smart phone tablet computer or other computing device. The IM formatted message may be identified as an IM to SMS message because the IM is addressed to a telephone number instead of an IM user operation . Depending on the unified communication environment of the enterprise in various embodiments the user may be prompted to select a method of sending a communication. For example the user may select a user by username or IM identifier and then select whether they would like to send a message by IM or SMS. In various embodiments the unified communication environment may be configured to prompt a user to send an SMS instead of an IM when a user is not logged on to IM. The enterprise application may receive the IM message and convert the message from IM format to the unified communications format operation . The message may also be checked against the SMS policy and formatted to conform to the policy operation . For example this may include checking the length of the message and comparing it to a character limit such as the typical SMS character limit of 160 characters. If a message is too long the message may be divided into multiple parts and treated like a plurality of separate messages. After the IM message has be formatted into the unified format and any SMS policy violations have been remedied or removed the unified formatted message may be sent to the SMS gateway application running on the SMS gateway operation . The SMS gateway application may convert the message from the unified format to SMS format operation and then pass the SMS formatted message to the SMS gateway for normal SMS operation operation . The SMS gateway may then send the SMS formatted message to a conventional SMS aggregator operation which in turn may send the SMS message to the appropriate carrier or service provider operation . The carrier or service provider may then send the SMS to the destination SMS end point operation according to the carrier or service provider s policies.

Referring now to an embodiment of a SMS to IM system configured to convert SMS messages to an IM messages and IM messages to SMS messages is depicted. In this embodiment SMS messages may be sent from a SMS endpoint to a destination IM client and IM messages may be sent from an IM client to an SMS endpoint. The SMS to IM system may include an SMS gateway configured to run an SMS gateway application . The SMS gateway may be capable of both receiving a SMS message and outputting an SMS message . The SMS gateway may also be in communication with an SMS to IM database as well as one or more enterprise environments . The enterprise environments may include an enterprise SMS IM application an instant messaging system and a plurality of IM clients . The enterprise SMS IM application may also be in communication with the SMS to IM database .

The incoming SMS message may be produced by any SMS endpoint such as a cellular phone a smart phone or similar electronic device. The SMS endpoint may also include an electronic device running an application capable of sending SMS messages via a cellular or computer network. The SMS message may be routed to the SMS gateway in any conventional way. For example SMS messages are typically routed from a SMS enabled electronic device by way of a carrier or service provider and an SMS aggregator.

In various embodiments the SMS Gateway may be configured to determine how to route incoming and outgoing messages. The SMS gateway may be configured to send and receive SMS messages send and receive unified formatted messages and convert messages from SMS format to unified format and vice versa. For example an incoming SMS message may be sent as SMS messages or may be converted to unified format and sent to an enterprise network. Incoming IM messages in the unified format may be converted to SMS messages sent outside of the system and routed accordingly to the correct SMS endpoint. The SMS gateway may include any conventional telecommunications equipment configured to receive and route SMS messages. In this embodiment the SMS gateway is configured to determine if an incoming text message should be routed to an IM client or if it should be sent as an SMS message . This may be done by first determining if the destination of the message is capable of receiving SMS to IM messages. This may involve checking the SMS to IM database to see if the destination is an SMS to IM customer as well as querying the IM client to ensure that the IM client is logged on. Once it has been determined that the SMS message may be converted to an IM message the SMS gateway may pass the message to the SMS gateway application .

The SMS to IM database may include a conventional database connected to the SMS Gateway and each enterprise network . The SMS to IM database may store any and all information necessary for contacting each user on the connected enterprise networks . This may include which telephone numbers are associated with which enterprise network which enterprise networks are configured to receive SMS to IM messages and each user s IM username and cellular telephone number. The SMS to IM database may run on a server personal computer or on the SMS Gateway itself.

In various embodiments the SMS gateway application may be configured to format incoming SMS messages into unified communication format messages as well as to reformat incoming unified communication format messages into SMS messages . The unified communications format may include any standard format for sending a communication over a digital network. For example in various embodiments the unified communication format may include HTTP or HTTPS formatted messages which include a destination address a sender address and a text or multimedia message. Outgoing messages arriving in the unified communication format may be reformatted into SMS formatted messages and sent out as SMS messages . Incoming SMS messages that are formatted into unified communication formatted messages may then be relayed to an enterprise application in an enterprise network .

In this embodiment the SMS gateway may be in communication with one or more enterprise unified communications networks . The enterprise unified communications networks may include typical enterprise intranets as well as the associated hardware and software required to maintain the networks including servers routers switches firewalls and like. The enterprise unified communications networks may also be connected to any outside networks and the Internet. The enterprise unified communications networks may also include an enterprise application and an IM system operating on an intranet server as well as an IM client operating on each workstation connected to the enterprise unified communications network .

In various embodiments the enterprise application is configured to encode and decode messages between the enterprises IM format and the unified communications format. For example as described in reference to incoming SMS messages are received by the gateway converted to a unified format by the SMS gateway application and transmitted to the enterprise application which in turn reformats the message into the enterprise s IM format and sends the message to the appropriate IM client via the enterprise s IM system . The enterprise application also queries the SMS to IM database to determine the proper user client to send the IM message to and may query the IM system to ensure that the user s IM client is online. If the user s IM client is not online the enterprise application may select a course of action depending on the policy of the enterprise. For example the enterprise application may select a phone number associated with the destination user return the message to the SMS application to be formatted and sent out as a SMS. The SMS may then be sent by the SMS Gateway application to the SMS gateway and sent out as a SMS message. In another embodiment the enterprise application may send the IM anyway and the IM system may hold the IM until the user logs back onto the IM system . In various other embodiments the system may both send the IM as an SMS to the phone number associated with the destination user and hold the IM in IM system until the user logs back onto the IM system .

In one embodiment of IM to SMS conversion the enterprise application may receive IM messages directed to phone numbers and compare the messages to a configurable messaging policy. For example the configurable messaging policy may be setup to only allow SMS messages of a specific length. In another example the configurable messaging policy may also be setup to only allow SMS messages and not MMS messages. The configurable message policy may include any other limitations or restrictions as set by a network administrator. The enterprise application may also rectify IM messages that fall outside of the configurable messaging policy. For example if the IM message is too long the enterprise application may break the message apart into several messages and then convert each of the several messages into a unified formatted message. In another example if the IM message includes multimedia elements that are not allowed by the configurable messaging policy the enterprise application may remove the not allowed multimedia elements.

The IM system and IM clients may include any IM conventional system and clients. Some enterprises may user proprietary IM environments while others may use common commercially available IM environments. The various embodiments are not limited by the type of IM environment used by the enterprise. The only requirement is that the enterprise application is capable of connecting to the IM environment and able to send and receive messages.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the details thereof. Various modifications and substitutions will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art. All such substitutions are intended to be embraced within the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The foregoing merely illustrates the principles of the invention. Various modifications and alterations to the described embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the teachings herein. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise numerous systems arrangements and methods which although not explicitly shown or described herein embody the principles of the invention and are thus within the spirit and scope of the present invention. From the above description and drawings it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the particular embodiments shown and described are for purposes of illustrations only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. References to details of particular embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

