---

title: Methods and systems for identifying member profiles similar to a source member profile
abstract: Techniques for identifying and presenting member profiles similar to a source member profile are described. With some embodiments, a general recommendation engine is used to extract features from member profiles, and then store the extracted features, including any computed, derived or retrieved profile features, in an enhanced member profile. In real-time, the general recommendation engine processes client requests to identify member profiles similar to a source member profile by comparing select profile features stored in the enhanced member profile with corresponding profile features of the source member profile, where the comparison results in several similarity sub-scores that are then combined in accordance with directives set forth in a configuration file. Finally, the member profiles with the highest similarity scores corresponding with the user-selected member profile are selected, and in some instances, presented to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544392&OS=09544392&RS=09544392
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09544392
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150122
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 194 883 filed on Jul. 29 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to data processing systems. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods systems and computer program products for identifying one or more member profiles of an online social networking service or business networking service that are similar to another source member profile.

A social networking service is a computer or web based application that enables users to establish links or connections with persons for the purpose of sharing information with one another. Some social networks aim to enable friends and family to communicate with one another while others are specifically directed to business users with a goal of enabling the sharing of business information. For purposes of the present disclosure the terms social network and social networking service are used in a broad sense and are meant to encompass services aimed at connecting friends and family often referred to simply as social networks as well as services that are specifically directed to enabling business people to connect and share business information also commonly referred to as social networks but sometimes referred to as business networks .

With many social networking services members are prompted to provide a variety of personal information which may be displayed in a member s personal web page. Such information is commonly referred to as personal profile information or simply profile information and when shown collectively it is commonly referred to as a member s profile. For example with some of the many social networking services in use today the personal information that is commonly requested and displayed includes a member s age gender interests contact information home town address the name of the member s spouse and or family members and so forth. With certain social networking services such as some business networking services a member s personal information may include information commonly included in a professional resume or curriculum vitae such as information about a person s education employment history skills professional organizations and so on. With some social networking services a member s profile may be viewable to the public by default or alternatively the member may specify that only some portion of the profile is to be public by default. Accordingly many social networking services serve as a sort of directory of people to be searched and browsed.

The present disclosure describes methods and systems for identifying target member profiles that are similar to a source member profile for members of a social networking service. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without all of the specific details.

Consistent with embodiments of the invention and as described in detail herein a social or business networking service includes the necessary logic to identify member profiles that are similar to a given member profile. For purposes of the present disclosure the given member profile which serves as input to a member profile matching algorithm or process is referred to herein as a source member profile. To distinguish from the source member profile the member profiles that are determined to be similar to the source member profile are referred to herein as target member profiles. The ability to accurately identify target member profiles similar to a source member profile will find practical application in a great number of scenarios. In some applications a user may select the source member profile and the target member profiles may then be identified and presented to the user. For example upon receiving a request to present member profiles similar to another particular source member profile the social networking service will in real time analyze a variety of member profiles to select the particular target member profiles that have the highest similarity scores with respect to the source member profile. After identifying the most similar member profiles e.g. those with the highest similarity scores the social networking service may present the viewer who initiated the request with a list of a number of selected target member profiles. In some instances the list will be presented with member profile summaries which if selected will cause a detailed view of the selected member profile to be presented. In addition with some embodiments the requesting viewer may filter or further refine the list of member profiles by specifying various profile features as filter criteria and or sort criteria and so forth.

Accordingly using a social or business networking service consistent with an embodiment of the invention a job recruiter viewing a first member s profile can simply select a user interface UI element e.g. a button or link to generate a list of other member profiles that are similar to the first member s profile. Accordingly if the first member profile is of interest to a job recruiter for example because the first member profile seems to match or otherwise fulfil many of the requirements for a particular job listing the job recruiter can very quickly identify other members of the social networking service who have member profiles similar to the first member thereby increasing the pool of potential job candidates to be targeted for a particular job opening or job listing.

In other applications the source member profile may be selected not by a user but by an application or process. For example with some embodiments an application or process may select a source member profile because the source member profile has certain characteristics. For instance a group recommendation service or feature may recommend to members of the social networking service that they join particular groups hosted by the social networking service that are likely to be of interest to the social networking service members based on the fact that the members have member profiles that are similar to a model member profile generated based on an analysis of the member profiles of all members in the group. Accordingly a source member profile may be generated based on the aggregate member profile information of all members common to the group. The recommendation service may then select this source member profile as an input to the member profile matching algorithm and identify target member profiles that are similar to the model source member profile for the group. For each target member profile that is determined to be similar to the selected source member profile for a particular group the recommendation service may recommend to a member having a member profile similar to that model profile for that group that the member join the group if not already a member of the group.

As will be described in greater detail below with some embodiments of the invention the ability to accurately identify in real time a set of member profiles most similar to a source member profile is achieved with a general recommendation engine. Accordingly at least with some embodiments the recommendation engine provides a recommendation service that can be customized for use with a great number of applications or services. For instance in addition to identifying similarities between different member profiles the recommendation engine can be configured to process other recommendation entity types to identify similarities between the recommendation entities. For purposes of the present disclosure a recommendation entity is simply a collection of information organized around a particular concept that is supported by the social networking service in general and the recommendation engine in particular. For instance some examples of recommendation entities are member profiles jobs or job listings interest groups companies advertisements events news discussions tweets questions and answers and so forth. Accordingly with some embodiments by specifying the particular features of two recommendation entities to be compared and by specifying a particular algorithm for use in generating a similarity score for the two recommendation entities the recommendation engine can be configured and customized to perform such tasks as generate similarity scores for use in recommending job listings to a member generate similarity scores for use in recommending particular interest groups that a user might be interested in joining generate similarity scores for use in displaying an appropriate or relevant advertisement to a particular member and many others.

In general the recommendation engine operates in two phases. In the first phase the data representing each individual instance of a particular recommendation entity e.g. a member profile a job listing a group and so forth is processed by a feature extraction engine to extract the relevant features on which matching analysis is to be performed. For instance in the case of a member profile only certain portions of a member s profile referred to herein as features may be selected for use in determining the similarity of any two member profiles. As such during the first phase a feature extraction engine processes each member profile to extract the relevant profile features from each member profile. In addition to simply extracting certain features from relevant recommendation entities the feature extraction engine may derive certain features based on other information included in the recommendation entity e.g. member profile . Continuing with the example of member profiles one feature that may be used to identify similar member profiles is work experience measured in the number of years since a member graduated from school. While this number is not typically included as raw data in a member s profile it may be derived with a simple calculation if the member s graduation date is specified in the member s profile. In addition with some embodiments the feature extraction engine may standardize and or normalize various features such as a member s job or position title or the name of a company at which a member has indicated being employed. With some embodiments certain profile features may be retrieved from external data sources using other information included in the recommendation entity as part of a query to the external data source.

The first phase may occur in real time or in the background e.g. offline as part of a batch process and in some embodiments due to the large amounts of data being processed is achieved via a parallel or distributed computing platform. Once the relevant features have been extracted computed derived or retrieved for each recommendation entity these relevant features are stored as a pre processed recommendation entity. For instance in the case of a member profile the feature extraction process results in an enhanced member profile that includes only the relevant features extracted from a member s profile as well as any derived or retrieved profile features. This pre processed enhanced profile is used during the recommendation engine s second phase when the matching engine compares the relevant profile features for one member against each target member profile until those member profiles with the highest similarity scores are identified. For example during the second phase the matching engine of the recommendation engine uses a configuration file that is customized for the particular analysis being performed. For example a first configuration file referred to herein as a profile matching configuration file may exist for use in identifying member profiles similar to a source member profile whereas a second configuration file specifying different features from different recommendation entities to be compared and a different algorithm for computing the matching scores may be specified for determining the job listings that are most likely to be of interest to a particular member. As such by configuring the feature extraction engine to extract relevant data from certain recommendation entities and customizing the analysis performed by the matching engine with an appropriate configuration file a wide variety of recommendation operations can be achieved with the general recommendation engine. Other advantages and aspects of the presently described inventive subject matter will be apparent from the description of the various FIG.s included herewith.

As shown in the front end consists of a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The application logic layer includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data layer. With some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various services and features of the social networking service. For instance the ability to identify member profiles similar to a user selected source member profile a service that may be recognized by the name People Like This or Profiles Similar to This may be a service implemented in an independent application server module . Similarly other applications or services that utilize the recommendation engine will be embodied in their own application server modules .

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing recommendation entity data for example such as member profiles job listings interest groups companies advertisements events news discussions tweets questions and answers and so forth. With some embodiments the recommendation entity data is processed in the background e.g. offline to generated pre processed entity data that can be used by the recommendation engine in real time to make recommendations generally and to identify member profiles similar to a source member profile specifically. For example the recommendation engine may retrieve and process member profile data in the database with reference number to identify member profiles similar to a source member profile. The database with reference number in is shown to be storing application configuration data including one or more configuration files for use with the recommendation engine as described in greater detail in connection with the description of .

Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social networking service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number .

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social networking service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the member being followed.

The social networking service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social networking service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some embodiments members of the social networking service may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the members. With some embodiments members may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. With many of these applications and services one or more recommendation entities are involved. For instance in addition to identifying member profiles that are similar to a source member profile the recommendation engine may be configured and customized to identify groups companies or photos that are likely to be of interest to a particular member.

In the case of identifying target member profiles similar to a source member profile the profile matching configuration file is used as an input to the matching engine to specify the various member profile features that the matching engine is to extract from the pre processed member profile data and to compare. In addition the profile matching configuration file is used to specify the exact algorithm for comparing profile features and generating an overall matching score.

In general each member s profile data is provided as input to the feature extraction engine processed by the feature extraction engine and then output and stored as pre processed member profile data . With some embodiments the feature extraction engine may extract only relevant features from whatever recommendation entity is being processed by the feature extraction engine. So for example in the case of a member profile the feature extraction engine may extract only the profile features that are necessary for making the determination of whether any two member profiles are similar. However in some embodiments all features are extracted while only certain features are further processed or refined.

As shown in the feature extraction engine includes a feature derivation module and a data retrieval module . With some embodiments the feature derivation module derives certain features e.g. profile features based on the data input to the feature extraction engine. For instance in the case of member profiles the feature derivation module may derive one or more profile features from the information included in a member s profile. Similarly the data retrieval module may utilize information input to the feature extraction engine to formulate a query that is communicated to an external data source . As such the data retrieval module of the feature extraction engine can retrieve various profile features from one or more external data sources such that these retrieved profile features can be used to determine the similarity of any two member profiles.

In addition to deriving various profile features and retrieving various profile features the feature extraction engine includes logic to normalize or standardize certain profile features. For instance with some embodiments a member may be prompted to provide his or her job title. Because job titles vary from one company to the next and from one industry to the next job titles need to be normalized or standardized before they are useful in determining similarities between two member profiles. For example the simple job title analyst will have very different meanings in different industries. By normalizing and or standardizing the job titles and then writing the standardized and normalized job titles to each member s enhanced profile the recommendation engine can make much more meaningful comparisons and thereby provide much more accurate results when presenting target member profiles similar to a source member profile.

After the feature extraction engine has generated the pre processed member profile data the matching engine is able to process client requests to identify member profiles similar to a source member profile. With some embodiments the client of the matching engine may simply be a server side application that is requesting the information from the matching engine . Accordingly the requesting application may specify or determine the particular configuration file that is to be used by the matching engine to perform the requested task and achieve the requested objective. In any case when a request is received at the matching engine to provide a list of member profiles similar to a source member profile the matching engine will use the profile matching configuration file to determine the particular member profile features that are to be retrieved from the various enhanced member profiles. In addition the profile matching configuration file specifies the exact comparisons that are to be performed and how the overall matching score is to be calculated. Accordingly the particular profile matching configuration file includes instructions or directives for use by the matching engine to perform the necessary profile feature comparisons and to generate the similarity scores for each member profile such that the similarity score for each member profile indicates the similarity of the member profile with respect to the source member profile.

With some embodiments the matching engine will compare multiple individual profile features such that each compared profile feature results in a similarity score referred to herein as a sub score to reflect that the sub score is a component of the overall similarity score . Once each sub score is determined the sub scores are combined in some manner indicated by the profile matching configuration file . That is the profile matching configuration file will dictate how the matching engine is to weight and combine the individual similarity sub scores to derive the overall similarity score for each member profile.

The method begins when at method operation the relevant profile features for a member profile are retrieved. For instance with some embodiments the feature extraction engine is configured to extract only certain features from each member s profile information. Accordingly the feature extraction engine may simply retrieve from a database the relevant data corresponding to the relevant profile features. With some embodiments the retrieval may be as simple as performing a database look up or fetch of the relevant data.

As some profile features may be free form text i.e. unstructured data such as a description of a member s interest skills hobbies career objectives and so forth at method operation some of the relevant features that have been retrieved are parsed and extracted from their raw data format. Next at method operation one or more processes may be performed to either normalize or standardize one or more profile features. For instance a member s job title may be standardized so that it can be more easily compared with others. Similarly the name of a company that employees a member may be normalized for example to drop or add Inc. or Corporation and so forth.

At method operation the feature extraction engine may derive one or more profile features from raw data included in a member s profile. For example with some embodiments one or more enhanced profile features may be features that are derived from the raw data included in a member s profile. If for example a person s profile indicates the year that he or she graduated from college an enhanced feature that can be derived from this raw data may include the number of years of work experience after college. In addition some profile features may include data received from a data source external to the social networking service. Accordingly data from a member s profile e.g. a name or other identifying data may be used to query an external data source for additional information about the member.

Finally at method operation the relevant profile features including any extracted profile features derived profile features normalized or standardized profile features or any retrieved profile features are written to storage as a pre processed enhanced member profile. As described in connection with the description of this pre processed member profile data is ultimately used by the matching engine to generate similarity scores for respective member profiles and to identify the member profiles that are the most similar to a source member profile.

As discussed below the profile matching configuration file specifies the particular features to be retrieved as well as the particular matching algorithms to be used for each of the retrieved features. For example the profile matching configuration file indicates the exact algorithm or comparison operations that are to be performed for the various profile features specified in the profile matching configuration file and how the various similarity sub scores resulting from the comparison of individual profile features are to be combined to generate an overall similarity score. In some instances the profile matching configuration file may indicate that a particular comparison is to be performed for a particular profile feature that results in a match only when there is an exact match. In other instances a partial match may be indicated and so forth. In some instances the comparison may involve determining whether a particular profile features is within a particular distance of the same profile feature for the source profile and so forth. As such the matching profile indicates not only the type of matching operation to be performed between a particular pair of profile features but also the weight that should be applied to any resulting sub score generated as a result of a match occurring between two profile features. With some embodiments the weight applied to any particular sub score may be dependent upon the extent to which two features match as specified by a matching algorithm or rule in the profile matching configuration file.

At method operation the relevant member profile features for the source member profile are retrieved. In some instances the source profile may be selected by a user while in other instances an application or process selects a particular member profile for use as the source member profile. In any case the relevant member profile features for the selected member profile are those member profile features specified in the profile matching configuration file obtained at method operation . With some embodiments each member profile may have an identifier e.g. such as a member identifier or member profile identifier . Accordingly a request to identify member profiles similar to a source member profile may include an identifier identifying the source member profile. With this the matching engine can retrieve the necessary profile features from the pre processed enhanced member profile for the particular member identified by the member identifier.

Next at method operation the matching engine retrieves the same set of profile features for a potential target member profile that is a member profile to be compared with the source member profile. With some embodiments the particular member profiles that are compared may be selected based on some required matching criteria either by default or as specified by an application process or user who has initiated the request. For instance the matching analysis may be limited to only those members who share a particular feature in common such as being employed by the same company having attended the same school having the same job title and so forth. In other instances the entire set of member profiles may be considered.

At method operation the matching engine compares the various profile features and calculates a similarity score for the target member profile in accordance with the instructions or directives set forth in the profile matching configuration file. For instance the profile matching configuration file indicates what comparison operation is to be performed for a pair of profile features and how the various similarity sub scores are to be combined to derive the overall similarity score. Once the overall similarity score is determined for the particular target member profile the similarity score is associated with the target member profile at method operation and the process beginning with method operation is repeated for additional member profiles until all of a particular set of member profiles have been assigned similarity scores.

Finally at method operation once all the member profiles have a similarity score indicating a level of similarity to the source member profile a certain number of the member profiles with the highest similarity scores are selected for use with the particular requesting application. For example if the similar member profiles have been requested by a user of the social networking service the similar member profiles may be communicated to a client device of the user for presentation to the user typically ordered based on their respective similarity score. As an example of one of the many applications that might perform this type of member profile comparison an example of a user interface displaying a member profile and a list of similar member profiles is presented in .

With some embodiments the number of member profiles that are selected and provided for use with a requesting application may be determined using some default or predetermined number. Alternatively with some embodiments the number of member profiles that are selected and provided to a particular requesting application may be configurable so that a certain number of the member profiles with the highest scores are provided. For example with some embodiments the profile matching configuration file specifies the number of member profiles that are to be returned to the requesting application. The number of member profiles may be specified explicitly e.g. ten thirty one hundred or via a rule such as the top X number of member profiles or all member profiles with a matching score exceeding X or some combination.

Upon selecting the link or button with reference number a new user interface e.g. web page is presented to the viewing user such as that shown in . As illustrated in a new web page is presented to the viewer and the web page contains a list of member profiles that have been determined to be similar to Joe Hansen s member profile. For example the example user interface shows three different member profiles for members named Ted Smith Larry Johnson and Shawn P. D. Glidden . By selecting any one of the three member profiles a more complete full member profile for the selected member profile may be displayed. In addition on the left portion of this example user interface several filtering criteria are presented allowing the viewer to filter the search results by various features. For instance the viewer may select only member profiles indicating current employment at a particular company or specific educational requirements e.g. school attended and so forth.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

