---

title: Improving customer experience in network-based services
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems, devices, and techniques for using collective intelligence to improve a customer's experience when using network-based services. Data generated as a byproduct of one or more customer interactions with the network-based service may be repeatedly gathered, optionally stored, and analyzed to generate collective intelligence information. This collective intelligence information may be compared to various assessed parameters associated with a characteristic (i.e., a type and/or a configuration) of a computer resource(s), parameters associated with a state of the network-based service provider environment, and/or a customer experience criterion specified by the customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09305262&OS=09305262&RS=09305262
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09305262
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150202
---
This application is a continuation of commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 456 filed Jun. 28 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 949 162 and entitled IMPROVING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE IN NETWORK BASED SERVICES the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Large scale network based computing represents a paradigm shift from traditional client server computing relationships. With large scale network based service provider environments e.g. data centers customers are able to leverage shared resources on demand by renting resources that are owned by third parties and that reside in the cloud. With these resources users of the network based service provider environment are able to launch and maintain large applications or computer resources without actually owning or servicing the underlying infrastructure necessary for these applications.

In order to use a network based service provider environment a user or customer typically instantiates a virtual machine or accesses a network based service also referred to herein as a computer resources . One example of such a computer resource is a virtual machine also referred to herein as virtual machine instances . Each computer resource is a software implementation of a computing system that executes programs like a physical computer system and is configured to run an operating system and execute customer installed programs or applications.

Because customers with diverse needs may create and or use computer resources of varying characteristics such as types i.e. computer resource capabilities and configurations e.g. operating system version security network access etc. customers may experience different levels of service. Furthermore varying system states of the network based service provider environment creates even more variation in levels of service with respect to the time required to execute and the performance of network based services.

This disclosure describes systems devices and techniques for using collective intelligence to improve a customer s experience when using network based services such as those offered by a network based service provider.

Network based services may include services such as cloud computing services network based storage services network based database services web hosting services and the like. Over time as customers of a network based service provider use computer resources offered by the service provider data is generated as a byproduct of the customers interaction with the network based services. Such data may include but is not limited to information based on the amount of time it takes to service requests the amount of excess compute capacity the amount of excess bandwidth internal network latency options selected by the customer details of booting creating launching and or terminating computer resources e.g. running time of a virtual machine type or amount of traffic received launch count of virtual machines number of customers of computer resources etc. and the like. This data may be repeatedly or continuously gathered stored and analyzed to generate collective intelligence information that may be utilized for the purpose of improving any given customer s experience when using one or more network based services. This collective intelligence information may prove very useful to the network based service provider offering one or more network based services for example who desires to provide its customer base with accurate predictions of customer experience and or provide the customer base with quality recommendations or ratings of products and or services.

In one example users that interact with a compute service operating within a service provider environment to create or launch virtual machines also referred to herein as virtual machine instances may receive respective passwords from one or more computer systems operating within the network based service provider environment. The network based service provider environment may include one or more computer systems configured to determine and store data relating to an amount of time for generating encrypting and serving the passwords to each user. The computer systems within the network based service provider environment may also store in association with this data parameters associated with the characteristics of the virtual machine instances as well as parameters associated with the state of the services e.g. a compute service database service storage service etc. as well as one or more networks internal to the network based service provider environment in order to generate collective intelligence information. In a specific example in the instance where a user specifies characteristics of a virtual machine instance to launch within the network based service provider environment the one or more computer systems are able to compare parameters of the user s virtual machine instance and the state information with at least a portion of the collective intelligence information to predict and communicate to the user a time period that will be required for generating encrypting and serving the user s password.

The network based service provider environment may implement services with servers or other physical equipment the physical equipment including for example computers processors memory data storage network equipment and so forth. Based on the physical equipment the network based service provider environment may provide compute services storage services database services etc. The services provided by the network based service provider environment may be available in scalable increments or amounts which can dynamically increase or decrease in response to usage and or demand. Service fees may tie to the amount of the service that customers actually use.

Functional components may be included in the network based service provider environment and may relate to network communications and other services or activities. Network related services may for example include firewalls load balancers filters routers and so forth. Additional functional components may be available for such things as graphics processing language translation searching etc.

The various services and functionality provided by the network based service provider environment may reside on a control plane comprising components that run in the network based service provider environment and are used by the service provider to manage the various computer systems operating within the service provider environment as well as perform certain actions on behalf of the customers . The services and functionality may be exposed to customers through various forms of network based interfaces which in are represented as being implemented by an interface . The interface may comprise an administrative component or service implemented by the equipment of the network based service provider environment .

The interface may expose various application programming interfaces APIs that can be programmatically accessed by remote or external devices and users to establish and execute many of the services and functionality provided by the network based service provider environment . For example servers running in datacenters may be configured with local applications that interact with the interface through the APIs allowing users to create or instantiate computer resources operated by the network based service provider environment . Computer resources may comprise compute nodes of various types and configurations that may be used to implement various services offered by a service provider including but not limited to cloud computing services network based storage services network based database services web hosting services and the like. The interface may also or alternatively expose a graphical user interface GUI for interactive access by users of the network based service provider environment . For example the GUI may comprise an Internet based web server or hypertext markup language HTML server which may in turn implement a network accessible website to allow users to browse or search catalogs of computer resources and similar products and services to be executed within the network based service provider environment .

Users which may include customers may communicate with the network based service provider environment from a client such as a computer a mobile device or other equipment. The client may communicate with the network based service provider environment through the APIs of the network based service provider environment . The APIs may be designed to support various client functions and communications and may be accessible through local area or wide area networks including the Internet.

In some cases the client may interact programmatically with the APIs of the interface . For example the client such as a computer system running in a customer s datacenter may execute one or more programs that issue network based API calls to the interface specifying desired actions or queries based on information received from or specified by a user. In other cases the client may implement a graphical browser such as an Internet browser through which a user may access the services of the network based service provider environment . More specifically such a browser may communicate with the GUI of the interface in response to interactive instructions selections and data entry by the user. In response to the client the interface and or control plane components may create or implement one or more computer resources . Each computer resource may reside in a data plane of the network based service provider environment and may be based on a machine image that is provided or specified by the client .

For any given customer that uses services of the network based service provider environment shown in the experience received by that customer depends on a number of parameters. These parameters can be categorized into two main categories in some instances. The first category includes parameters associated with characteristic s of a computer resource s that a customer desires to use. The term characteristic as used in the context of computer resources herein includes a type s or a configuration s of a computer resource s . For example computer resources such as virtual machines may be of various types in terms of processing capacity memory storage etc. and virtual machines may also have various configurations that define for example a region specified by the customer for launching virtual machines security characteristics network access characteristics version of operating system and similar parameters related to customer controlled configurations and settings.

The second category of parameters includes parameters associated with a state of the network based service provider environment which may include but are not limited to proximity to another user s or another computer resource s of the network based service provider environment the number of users consuming resources of the network based service provider environment at any given time the demand or level of usage that is being placed on the physical equipment at any given time and similar parameters.

Various permutations of the parameters within the two aforementioned categories will at least partly dictate the performance characteristics of the network based services that any given customer experiences. Such customer experiences include for example a time period required to generate a password for the customer upon creation of a virtual machine or a time period to launch the virtual machine. Furthermore the parameters associated with the characteristics of computer resources are often defined by the customers themselves and are not controlled by the service provider hosting the network based service. Therefore there is a randomness associated with the usage of these network based service provider environments whereby the service provider cannot always predict and tell its customers exactly what their experience is going to be or provide quality recommendations to its customers regarding products and or services e.g. machine images virtual machine instances etc due to the lack of control over these parameters.

Accordingly disclosed herein are systems devices and techniques for using collective intelligence to improve a customer s experience when using network based services. When a customer uses network based services by for example creating launching or terminating virtual machines or interacting with services offered by the service provider data is generated as a byproduct of the customer s use of the network based services and this generated data may be gathered and analyzed using collective intelligence methodologies. The general concept of collective intelligence makes use of information collected from a user base the user base being for example the users of a social networking site a network based service e.g. cloud computing service etc. Accordingly the generated data may be collected and analyzed to generate collective intelligence information which may then be utilized for various purposes including but not limited to determining a more accurate prediction of a subsequent customer experience provisioning access credentials for computer resources recommending products or services to customers or rating products or services for customers. Products and services as used herein refer to software and virtual hardware products that may generally be used in a network based service provider environment including but not limited to computer resources such as machine images virtual machine instances and the like. Furthermore it is to be appreciated that all or a portion of the gathered data may be analyzed for utilization in improving the experience of customers . Using collective intelligence in the context of network based services may enable a third party host of such services to guide their customer base and alter the customers experience in a way that is likely to increase customer satisfaction.

With reference again to the network based service provider environment may further include a collective intelligence engine to provide the aforementioned collective intelligence function for improving a given customer s experience when using network based services. The collective intelligence engine may be implemented by the equipment of the network based service provider environment and comprises one or more processing units and one or more forms of computer readable memory . The memory may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory. Thus the memory may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology or any other medium which can be used to store applications and data. The memory may also include removable media such as optical disks portable devices drives and so forth. The memory may be used to store any number of functional or executable components such as programs and program modules that are executable on the processing unit . Each component stored in the memory may comprise computer executable instructions that when executed cause the one or more processing units to perform acts and to implement techniques described herein.

Accordingly the memory comprises a data gathering component configured to repeatedly or continuously gather data that is generated by services users or customers when using i.e. interacting with the network based service provider environment creating and destroying computer resources and the like the network based service provider environment . The data gathering component may operate by calling individual services provided by the network based service provider environment collecting log files gathering data that is a byproduct of a control plane API used to initiate and mutate customer resources gathering API calls e.g. run instance gathering data generated at the data plane level or data indicating that passwords or login names were generated etc. Accordingly the data gathering component may gather data generated at the control plane the data plane or throughout the network based service provider environment . The data that is generated from a customer s use of the network based service may include but is not limited to options selected by the customer details of booting creating launching and or terminating a computer resource e.g. such as running time a type or amount of traffic received a launch count or number of customers of a computer resource and similar data.

This gathered data may be stored in a data store . The data store may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory. Thus the data store may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology or any other medium which can be used to store data. The data store may also include removable media such as optical disks portable devices drives and so forth or arrays of such storage media such as disk arrays RAID systems etc.

Once the data is gathered by the data gathering component and optionally stored in the data store an analysis component may access at least a portion of the data either directly from the data gathering component or from the data store and is configured to analyze or otherwise process the gathered data in order to create collective intelligence information which is also optionally stored in the data store . A comparison component is configured to assess a first parameter s associated with a characteristic i.e. a type or a configuration of a computer resource s that the customer is using or that is presented in an electronic catalog or online marketplace. The comparison component is further configured to assess a second parameter s associated with a state of the network based service provider environment at the given time. The comparison component additionally references the collective intelligence information created by the analysis component and compares the assessed first and second parameter s to the collective intelligence information which may be utilized in a number of ways to improve customer experience of a user or customer using a network based service. For example information that may be obtained based on the comparison includes a prediction of a customer experience e.g. password generation times access credentials for using computer resources e.g. machine images virtual machines etc. product and or service recommendations or ratings etc. Finally a serving component sends a message to or otherwise notifies a customer through the interface with the message being associated with the information obtained from the comparison. For instance the message may indicate an estimated amount of time for the network based service provider environment to generate a password may recommend or rate a product or service may provide access credentials to the user or the like.

The process may entail actions performed by the network based service provider environment . An action which may be performed by the data gathering component may comprise gathering data that is generated by services users or customers when using i.e. interacting with the network based service provider environment creating and destroying computer resources and the like the network based service provider environment . This may be done in the manner described above with reference to the data gathering component of . At the gathered data is analyzed or otherwise processed by the analysis component as described above in order to create collective intelligence information.

At a first parameter s associated with a characteristic of a computer resource s e.g. a computer resource specified by a customer is assessed. For example the type of the computer resource s in terms of resources or the computer resource s configurations defining the specified region for launching the computer resource s security characteristics network access characteristics or the operating system version may be assessed at . At a second parameter s associated with a state of the network based service provider environment is assessed. For example the proximity of other user s or other computer resource s of the network based service provider environment and or the number of users or demand being placed on the physical equipment may be assessed at . At at least a portion of collective intelligence information that was generated from analysis of gathered data is referenced. Such collective intelligence information may include but is not limited to previous usage data of the same or a similar computer resource information relating to the login experience of previous customers a number of customers who have logged in with a particular login name to a same or similar computer resource running time a type or amount of traffic received a launch count number of customers or similar information or characteristics of a computer resource etc.

At the collective intelligence information referenced in is compared with the first and second parameters assessed in and respectively. This comparison may be based on any suitable algorithm given the nature of the data such as a data counting techniques e.g. counting the number of times a particular user name was used for a given computer resource and selecting the user name with the highest number count or a clustering algorithm e.g. K means algorithm . Additionally or alternatively weights may be assigned to data points in the collective intelligence information wherein the weighting is based on a similarity metric between the assessed parameters and the collective intelligence information. For example the referenced collective intelligence information may include information relating to past use of the same or similar computer resource in a same or similar region.

At a prediction of a behavior of the computer resource and or how a customer is to engage the computer resource is obtained. For example a customer experience may be obtained or access credentials e.g. a login name for using a computer resource may be obtained. Upon obtaining the prediction at the prediction may be communicated or served such as by messaging or otherwise displaying a notification for the customer s at . Consequently a third party host of network based services may be able to more accurately predict the customer experience that is to be expected for a given customer based on the process of . In other words the default customer experience message may be refined to provide enhanced customer service.

The process may entail actions performed by a client computing device operated by a user and actions performed by the network based service provider environment . An action which may be performed by a client device of a user or customer of the network based service provider environment may comprise a specification or request from the customer. The network based service provider environment may receive this specification or request from the client device. In one example at a customer may specify one or more virtual machines to be instantiated by the network based service provider environment . In addition or alternatively a customer may request access credentials for a virtual machine. Provisioning accurate access credentials is sometimes a difficult task for third party hosts of network based services due to the nature of shared machine images also known as community machine images which may be associated with a plurality of access credentials. Such access credentials are usually not stored by the third party host of the network based service on which the virtual machine is used. Therefore the third party host of the network based service does not control the generation storage or retrieval of these access credentials.

At a first parameter s associated with a characteristic of a virtual machine s e.g. the virtual machine specified by the customer at is assessed. For example the type of the virtual machine s in terms of resources or the virtual machine s configurations defining the specified region for launching the virtual machine s security characteristics network access characteristics or the operating system version may be assessed at . In a similar manner to that of process at a second parameter s associated with a state of the network based service provider environment is assessed. For example the specifications of or number of users or demand being placed on the physical equipment and or the manner in which hard drives are persisted may be assessed at . At at least a portion of collective intelligence information that was generated from analysis of gathered data is referenced. Such collective intelligence information may include but is not limited to previous usage data of the same or a similar virtual machine information relating to the login experience of previous customers a number of customers who have logged in with a particular login name to a same or similar virtual machine running time a type or amount of traffic received a launch count number of customers or similar information or characteristics of a virtual machine etc.

At the collective intelligence information referenced in is compared with the first and second parameters assessed in and respectively. This comparison may be based on any suitable algorithm given the nature of the data such as a data counting techniques e.g. counting the number of times a particular user name was used for a given virtual machine and selecting the user name with the highest number count or a clustering algorithm e.g. K means algorithm . Additionally or alternatively weights may be assigned to data points in the collective intelligence information wherein the weighting is based on a similarity metric between the assessed parameters and the collective intelligence information. For example the referenced collective intelligence information may include information relating to past use of the same or similar virtual machine in a same or similar region.

At a prediction of a customer experience may be obtained as shown at or access credentials e.g. a login name for using a virtual machine may be obtained as shown at . The prediction of the customer experience and the access credentials are based on the comparison at . Examples of customer experience predictions may be in regard to launch times for virtual machines password generation times insertion function times for database services cost or cost metrics associated with products and or services and similar customer experiences. Upon obtaining the prediction of a customer experience at a rating for virtual machine is obtained at the rating being based at least in part on the obtained prediction of the customer experience. This rating may then be communicated or served such as by messaging or otherwise displaying a notification for the customer s at . Furthermore the process may be a recursive method whereby multiple ratings are obtained for each virtual machine that may be presented in an electronic catalog or online marketplace via relative rating ranking among the products and or services.

Alternatively upon obtaining the prediction of a customer experience at the process may proceed directly to where the prediction of a customer experience may be communicated or served such as by messaging or otherwise displaying a notification for the customer s . Similarly upon obtaining the access credentials at the access credentials may be communicated or served such as by messaging or otherwise displaying a notification for the customer s at . Consequently a third party host of network based services may be able to more accurately predict the customer experience that is to be expected for a given customer more accurately provision access credentials to a given customer or present ratings of computer resources based on the process of . In other words the default customer experience message may be refined to provide enhanced customer service.

In a non limiting example scenario to further illustrate the processes of when a customer creates a virtual machine instance a password for the virtual machine instance will be generated and encrypted after a time period. This time period for generating and encrypting the password may depend on parameters associated with the characteristic of the virtual machine instance. The time period may also depend on parameters associated with the state of the network based service provider environment . Therefore by comparing these parameters which may be assessed at the time the customer creates the virtual machine instance with collective intelligence information comprising the same or similar parameter information based on previous customer usage data a prediction of the time period required for generating and encrypting the customer s password may be obtained and served to the customer.

In another non limiting example suppose a customer is browsing an electronic catalog or online marketplace of products or services e.g. virtual machines of varying characteristics. The customer may find it helpful for products to be presented by a rating system in order to give them information on the best products and services available to suit the customer s needs. In accordance with disclosed systems and techniques customers may be given an accurate indication of the predicted customer experience upon the purchase rental of a given product and or service at a given time and in real time as they browse the products and or services. More specifically if a customer wants to buy a given computer resource at a given time the network based service provider environment can display or output precisely what sort of customer experience the customer will receive before buying the machine image at that time. Furthermore customers may search and sort products and or services in the catalog or online marketplace based on the ratings obtained using collective intelligence techniques as described in processes and . Lastly the processes and may be repeatedly and frequently executed such that a customer browsing a catalog or marketplace of products and or services will be presented with up to date ratings of the products and or services.

Referring now to embodiments are disclosed for using collective intelligence to provision high quality recommendations of products and or services to customers of network based services. Products and services as used herein refer to software and virtual hardware products that may generally be used in a network based service provider environment including but not limited to computer resources e.g. machine images virtual machine instances etc. . illustrates an example process that may be performed by or in conjunction with the network based service provider environment . Although the process is described in the context of the network based service provider environment the process may also be implemented in other environments such as in private or user owned installations.

An action may comprise specifying a customer experience criterion or criteria relating to performance characteristics. Such customer experience criteria may include but are not limited to a desired time period for generation of passwords or for the launch of a computer resource s and similar customer experience criteria. This action may be performed by a client device of a user or customer of the network based service provider environment and may be performed in response to a request to the customer to specify customer experience parameters in response to creating a computer resource s which may not yet be configured. The network based service provider environment may accordingly receive the specified customer experience criterion.

Similar to the process as described in a parameter s associated with a state of the network based service provider environment is assessed at and collective intelligence information is referenced at . At the specified customer experience criterion and the assessed parameter s associated with the state of the network based service provider environment are compared with the referenced collective intelligence information. The comparison in may be based on any suitable algorithm given the nature of the data such as data counting techniques or clustering algorithms as described above. Additionally or alternatively weights may be assigned to data points in the collective intelligence information wherein the weighting is based on a similarity metric between the criterion specified by the customer at the parameter assessed at and the collective intelligence information referenced in . For example past launches of computer resources such as virtual machines corresponding to similar customer experience criterion and system state parameters to those assessed in and respectively may be referenced and used in the comparison step to obtain a recommendation of a particular type of computer resource s with particular configurations. At a recommendation of one or more products and or services with characteristics that will result in customer experiences similar or superior to the customer experience criterion specified by the customer are obtained based on the comparison at . More specifically at least one particular type or configuration for a computer resource s recommended for the customer to receive the specified customer experience criterion can be obtained at . At the recommendation of the product s and or service s may then be communicated or served such as by messaging or otherwise displaying a notification for the customer.

The example computer may comprise one or more processing units and one or more forms of computer readable memory . The memory may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory. Thus the memory may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology or any other medium which can be used to store applications and data. The memory may also include removable media such as optical disks portable devices drives and so forth.

The memory may be used to store any number of functional components such as programs and program modules that are executable on the processing unit . For example the memory may store an operating system and various applications or user specified programs . The operating system and or the user specified programs may include components modules and or logic for performing the actions described herein. More specifically executable components stored in the memory may comprise computer executable instructions that when executed cause the one or more processing units to perform acts and to implement techniques described herein.

The computer may also have user input output components such as a display keyboard mouse etc. The computer may also comprise a communications interface such as a network interface.

Generally the functionality described herein may be implemented by one or more computers such as shown by or by similar devices with the various actions described above distributed in various ways across the different computers. Computers of the network based service provider environment may be located together or separately and organized as virtual servers server banks and or server farms. The described functionality may be provided by the computers of a single entity or enterprise or may utilize the computers and or services of multiple entities or enterprises.

The environment and individual elements described herein may of course include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those shown in the accompanying figures are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

The various techniques described herein are assumed in the given examples to be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions or software such as program modules that are stored in computer readable storage and executed by the processor s of one or more computers or other devices such as those illustrated in the figures. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. and define operating logic for performing particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Other architectures may be used to implement the described functionality and are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. Furthermore although specific distributions of responsibilities are defined above for purposes of discussion the various functions and responsibilities might be distributed and divided in different ways depending on circumstances.

Similarly software may be stored and distributed in various ways and using different means and the particular software storage and execution configurations described above may be varied in many different ways. Thus software implementing the techniques described above may be distributed on various types of computer readable media not limited to the forms of memory that are specifically described.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims.

