---

title: Gas reactor devices with microplasma arrays encapsulated in defect free oxide
abstract: A gas reactor device includes a plurality of microcavities or microchannels defined at least partially within a thick metal oxide layer consisting essentially of defect free oxide. Electrodes are arranged with respect to the microcavities or microchannels to stimulate plasma generation therein upon application of suitable voltage. One or more or all of the electrodes are encapsulated within the thick metal oxide layer. A gas inlet is configured to receive feedstock gas into the plurality of microcavities or microchannels. An outlet is configured to outlet reactor product from the plurality of microcavities or microchannels. In an example preferred device, the feedstock gas is air or Oand is converted by the plasma into ozone (O). In another preferred device, the feedstock gas is an unwanted gas to be decomposed into a desired form. Gas reactor devices of the invention can, for example, decompose gases such as CO, CH, or NO.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09579624&OS=09579624&RS=09579624
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 09579624
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150107
---
The application is a divisional of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from prior application Ser. No. 13 527 842 filed Jun. 20 2012 now Pat. No. 8 968 668 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 501 057 which was filed on Jun. 24 2011.

This invention was made with Government assistance under U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research grant No. FA9550 08 1 0246. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention is in the field of microcavity and microchannel plasma devices also known as microdischarge devices or microplasma devices.

Microcavity plasma devices produce a nonequilibrium low temperature plasma within and essentially confined to a cavity having a characteristic dimension d below approximately 500 m. This new class of plasma devices exhibits several properties that differ substantially from those of conventional macroscopic plasma sources. Because of their small physical dimensions microcavity plasmas normally operate at gas or vapor pressures considerably higher than those accessible to macroscopic devices. For example microplasma devices with a cylindrical microcavity having a diameter of 200 300 m or less are capable of operation at rare gas as well as Nand other gases tested to date pressures up to and beyond one atmosphere.

Such high pressure operation is advantageous. An example advantage is that at these higher pressures plasma chemistry favors the formation of several families of electronically excited molecules including the rare gas dimers Xe Kr Ar . . . and the rare gas halides such as XeCl ArF and KrF that are known to be efficient emitters of ultraviolet UV vacuum ultraviolet VUV and visible radiation. This characteristic in combination with the ability of microplasma devices to operate in a wide range of gases or vapors and combinations thereof offers emission wavelengths extending over a broad spectral range. Furthermore operation of the plasma in the vicinity of atmospheric pressure minimizes the pressure differential across the packaging material when a microplasma device or array is sealed.

Research by the present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has resulted in new microcavity plasma device structures as well as applications. A particularly promising class of microcavity plasma device arrays is formed in metal and metal oxide. Large scale low cost arrays of devices that can be flexible are formed by inexpensive processes with metal electrodes encapsulated in metal oxide. One problem that has arisen with such devices is the occurrence of defects in the oxide layer that encapsulates and protects the metal electrodes from plasma generated in the microcavities. During the formation of oxide over metal in which microcavities are formed in a metal sheet the oxide can develop defects such as cracks. This is especially true in areas where the oxide is formed over the edges of microcavities.

Important arrays of metal and oxide microcavity plasma devices have been provided by past work at the University of Illinois. For example Eden et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 573 202 discloses metal and metal oxide arrays that are formed by growing a nanoporous dielectric on a metal substrate in which microcavities have been formed. Subsequent anodization forms a nanoporous oxide which can also be backfilled with dielectrics metals or carbon nanotubes for example. This provides a high performance dielectric. However the nanoporous dielectric can develop cracks especially in areas near the rim of a microcavity.

The formation of microscopic cracks in the dielectric of a microplasma device can limit device lifetime and cause operational flaws. The cracks provide a pathway for dielectric breakdown that can disable portions or all of an array of devices. The excellent electrical breakdown characteristics of nanoporous alumina AlO for example are of little consequence once a crack of sufficient size appears in a thin layer of the material.

Past efforts have been made to mitigate the appearance of cracks. One solution is to apply thin glass films to regions where cracking occurs. This increases cost and complexity in the manufacturing process. Another drawback is that glass has a melting point well below that of dielectrics such as AlO which can limit operation of devices and arrays formed this way. The glass also generally overcoats the nanostructured alumina reducing the dielectric strength offered by the network of hexagonal pores from which the alumina film is composed.

Eden et al U.S. Pat. No. 8 004 017 discloses large arrays of metal metal oxide microplasma devices and a fabrication method for the same. High quality large arrays are formed. The fabrication method is a wet chemical process in which self patterned circumferential electrodes are automatically formed around microcavities during an anodization process that converts metal to metal oxide. The size and pitch of the microcavities in a metal foil or film prior to anodization as well as the anodization parameters determine which of the microcavity plasma devices in a one or two dimensional array are connected. The metal foil is obtained or fabricated with microcavities having any of a broad range of cross sections circular square etc. . The foil is anodized to form a nanostructured metal oxide layer. One or more self patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and simultaneously encapsulated in the metal oxide created by the anodization process. The electrodes form uniformly around the perimeter of each microcavity and can be electrically isolated or connected in patterns. The shape of the electrodes that form around the microcavities is dependent upon the shape of the microcavities prior to anodization. The metal oxide formed by this method can also develop microcracks especially in areas which traverse or span the rim or other sharp discontinuity associated with a microcavity. Areas immediately adjacent to such discontinuities are also susceptible to microcracks. With densely packed and larger scale areas cracking is more prevalent.

Limiting the number of defects in large and densely packed arrays of microcavities and microcavity plasma devices has been accomplished with stress reduction structures and techniques. Eden et al. U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2010 0001629 provides such arrays via stress reduction structures geometries and fabrication techniques that limit the tendency of large scale and densely packed arrays to crack and buckle due to mismatches in the coefficients of thermal expansion between the oxide and metal.

The present inventors have determined a significant cause of microcracking in metal oxide films and methods to avoid such microcracking. Generally nanoporous oxide grown from a flat or gently curved surface will be high quality presuming that all other growth parameters such as temperature and rate are chosen judiciously. In an oxide layer that is essentially free of microcracking the axes of the nanopores in the metal oxide are approximately parallel and oriented orthogonal to the plane of the metal substrate surface from which the oxide is grown. However growing metal oxide film s from a surface having a sharply rounded edge such as that at the rim of a hole generally introduces cracking in the film because the axis of the pores must rotate through a large angle typically 90 over a short distance. This situation introduces considerable strain into the film and subsequent cracking. This reduces the dielectric quality of the film.

A gas reactor device includes a plurality of microcavities or microchannels defined at least partially within a thick metal oxide layer consisting essentially of defect free oxide. Electrodes are arranged with respect to the microcavities or microchannels to stimulate plasma generation therein upon application of suitable voltage. At least one of and preferably all of the electrodes are encapsulated within the thick metal oxide layer. A gas inlet is configured to receive feedstock gas into the plurality of microcavities or microchannels. An outlet is configured to outlet reactor product from the plurality of microcavities or microchannels. In an example preferred device the feedstock gas is air or Oand is converted by the plasma into ozone O . In another preferred device the feedstock gas is an unwanted gas to be decomposed into a desired form. Gas reactor devices of the invention can for example decompose gases such as CO CH or NO.

A gas reactor device of the invention includes a plurality of microcavities or microchannels defined at least partially within a thick metal oxide layer consisting essentially of defect free oxide. Electrodes are arranged with respect to the microcavities or microchannels to stimulate plasma generation therein upon application of suitable voltage. At least one of and preferably all of the electrodes are encapsulated within the thick metal oxide layer. A gas inlet is configured to receive feedstock gas into the plurality of microcavities or microchannels. An outlet is configured to outlet reactor product from the plurality of microcavities or microchannels. In an example preferred device the feedstock gas is air or Oand is converted by the plasma into ozone O . In another preferred device the feedstock gas is an unwanted gas to be decomposed into a desired form. The outlet can be a gas outlet or a liquid outlet. Gas reactor devices of the invention can for example decompose gases such as CO CH or NO. In another preferred device the feedstock gas is an unwanted gas to be decomposed into a desired form. Gas reactor devices of the invention can for example decompose gases such as CO CH or NO. Large arrays of the microcavities or microchannels can be formed and efficiently produce substantial quantities of ozone.

The large arrays can be formed and are highly robust because an absence of microcracks in the oxide serves to prevent dielectric breakdown. A method of fabricating a microcavity or microchannel plasma device used in ozone generation systems of the invention includes anodizing a flat or gently curved or gently sloped metal substrate to form a thick layer of metal oxide consisting essentially of nanopores that are perpendicular to the surface of the metal substrate. Material removal is conducted to remove metal oxide material to form a microcavity or microchannel in the thick layer of metal oxide. Powder blasting is preferably used as an efficient removal process that preserves oxide quality.

Preferred embodiment arrays of microcavity and microchannel plasma devices used in gas reactor systems of the invention are formed from metal electrodes buried in substantially defect free metal oxide. In a method of fabrication of the invention thicker high quality nanoporous oxide is formed on a flat or gently curved or sloping substrate having a substantial thickness for conversion to oxide. In preferred embodiments the formed oxide layer is at least 100 m thick and the substrate used for fabrication is at least 150 m in thickness. The nanopores are automatically owing to the electrochemical process by which they are formed oriented perpendicularly to the plane of the metal substrate. The microcavities are then fabricated in the thick high quality oxide by an oxide material removal technique such as laser ablation or powder blasting. A preferred method uses powder blasting to form microcavities or microchannels via techniques previously applied to substrates such as glass polymers and ceramics as disclosed in Eden et al. U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2010 0072893 entitled Ellipsoidal Microcavity Plasma Devices and Powder Blasting Formation which is incorporated by reference herein.

Methods of the invention provide for the fabrication of microcavities and microchannels and arrays thereof in one or more layers of nanoporous metal oxide of high quality. The term high quality indicates that the metal oxide layer is essentially free of microcracking i.e. the metal oxide consists essentially of oxide with no microcracks. Tests have shown that the dielectric breakdown strength of nanoporous alumina AlO films for example can be several times larger than that for bulk alumina.

In methods of the invention a metal oxide layer is grown on a flat or gently sloped or curved surface. A gently curved or sloped surface is one that has no irregular surface features or steep or sudden transitions such as edges and surface protrusions or cavity rims. An irregular surface protrusion is one that is more than 10 20 in height of the thickness of the metal oxide that will be formed. A steep or sudden transition is one that has a local radius of curvature of less than approximately 1 mm. Microcavities and or microchannels are formed subsequently in the metal oxide layer. This approach ensures that the oxide in which the cavities are to be formed is essentially free of cracking and therefore avoids premature electric breakdown of the dielectric. This contributes significantly to the performance of preferred embodiment extended lifetime ozone generation devices.

Arrays of microcavity plasma devices of the invention are formed from a metal metal oxide system such as the Al AlOsystem but micropowder blasting laser ablation or another controlled oxide removal technique forms microcavities in thicker higher quality layers of nanoporous metal oxide. Preferred methods of the invention also provide an optimized process that accelerates oxide growth rate even at low temperatures to provide high quality oxide.

As discussed above an important advantage of the present invention over our prior work including that discussed in the background is that the metal oxide e.g. aluminum oxide AlO surface is substantially free of cracks and other defects produced by growing AlOon sharply rounded or discontinuous surfaces. The thick layers of nanoporous metal oxide grown by the optimized process on a flat or gently curved or sloping surface produces a defect free layer of the metal oxide. Subsequently the microchannels or microcavities are formed by micro or nano powder blasting or other technique such as laser ablation . Thus the emphasis is on obtaining a defect free oxide film first and the cavity shape second. Surprisingly such higher quality oxide layers which can also be substantially thicker yield microcavity or microchannel plasma device arrays that are considerably more resilient to electrical breakdown and can therefore better tolerate harsher operating environments such as those experienced in ozone generation for water treatment or general disinfection treatment applications and for the treatment or decomposition of gases such as COor NO. Arrays of microcavity or microchannel plasma devices of the invention are exceptionally in robust and have dielectric essentially consisting of defect free thick metal oxide.

Preferred materials for the thin metal electrodes and metal oxide are aluminum and aluminum oxide Al AlO . Another exemplary metal metal oxide material system is titanium and titanium dioxide Ti TiO . Other metal metal oxide material systems will be apparent to artisans. Preferred material systems permit the formation of microcavity or microchannel plasma device arrays used in gas reactor devices of the invention by inexpensive mass production techniques.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize broader aspects of the invention. The preferred embodiments will be illustrated with respect to the preferred Al AlOmaterials system and experiments that were conducted to form experimental devices. As mentioned above other metal and metal oxide systems can be used.

A fabrication process of the invention commences with a substantially flat or gently curved or sloped metal substrate plate foil film rod etc. that has a thickness sufficient to provide a thick oxide layer such as a 100 m or thicker oxide layer. The flat or gently curved or sloped metal substrate has no pre formed microcavities and provides a flat continuous uninterrupted surface on which a thick layer of metal oxide will be grown. illustrates conditions for a preferred embodiment fabrication process that has been tested in experiments and that provide insight into the optimal growth conditions for rapid formation of thick metal oxide layers. Prior arrays of microchannel and microcavity plasma devices in metal and metal oxide have been formed with an anodization of a thin metal film with pre formed microcavities in a temperature range of about 25 C. 50 C. The temperature used in anodization in the present method is preferably below 15 C. and preferably within a couple degrees of 0 C. In addition in a preferred embodiment the voltage during anodization is preferably above 40 V and is up to about 150 V.

The particular data in show that for an anodization process conducted experimentally in which oxalic acid HCO converts aluminum into AlO we have been able to dramatically accelerate the growth of AlOwhile actually lowering the growth temperature substantially e.g. down to 0 C. or a couple of degrees lower. Note that for 40 V the growth rate is substantially slower than that for an anodizing voltage of 100 V even though the bath temperature has been raised to 15 C. The inset shows that the primary electrical effect of raising the processing voltage is to increase the current density. In this manner AlOfilms of extraordinary thickness can be grown on aluminum substrates such as a plate or thick foil. The thick e.g. 100 m 500 m and beyond metal oxide films grown in this way are nanoporous and virtually defect free. That is the film has no cracks that can lead to electrical breakdown when the metal oxide film serves as a dielectric.

With the mask in place microcavities or microchannels are produced in by powder blasting either micropowder or nanopowder blasting. A nozzle or nozzles spray the abrasive powder to remove metal oxide material. As seen in the cavities formed by the powder blasting have a generally half ellipsoid cross sectional shape. The cross sectional profile of the microcavities is determined by several factors including the backing pressure and the size of the powder particles used in the powder blasting process. Example powders include those consisting of AlO SiO SiC or metal carbonates. The size of the particles in these powders is between about 500 nm and 30 m. Other techniques such as laser ablation can be effective in forming microcavities. It is noted that the mask can be used but is not required if laser ablation is used for forming the microcavities. In the absence of a mask the laser spot can be electronically controlled to ablate material at specified locations.

If the initial AlOlayer grown in is sufficiently thick then the microcavity may be formed only in this alumina layer as shown in . Alternatively as illustrated in the cavity may extend into the underlying metal presuming of course that the Al AlOconversion of Step 1 did not completely convert the Al metal into oxide . illustrates another variation in which the powder blasting continues until it penetrates completely through the metal which can serve as a device electrode. The powder blasting is also able to ablate completely through the metal oxide and metal layer so as to form an aperture nozzle gas outlet at the bottom of the microcavity as shown in .

Depending upon the shape of the mask and the openings therein as well as the duration of powder blasting different sized and shaped but generally elliptical cross section microcavities can be produced. Similarly microchannels with half elliptical cross sections can be produced. In the processes of wherein the metal is completely or partially penetrated by the microcavity or microchannel a second anodization can be performed to convert the exposed surface of the metal as in to metal oxide and thereby protect the metal such that it can serve as a device electrode for plasma generated in microcavities or microchannels . This is shown in which also shows the mask removed. Metal oxide coats the internal walls of the microcavity or microchannel to protect the metal electrode . The additional metal oxide supplied by the second AlOgrowth the portion of metal oxide lying between the interior edges of metal and the microcavity wall retains the smooth surface of the microcavity wall and this fresh oxide does not crack because the contour of the metal surface exposed to the wet chemical etching process varies gradually. The quality of the metal oxide layer produced by the second anodization is important to the electrical reliability of the finished device or array of devices. The slowly changing slope of the electrode faces in i.e. the ends of the electrode terminating at the cavity wall prior to the second anodization facilitates the growth of oxide that essentially consists of oxide that is free of microcracks. also illustrates a gentle curve that can be formed at the top of microcavities and microchannels by methods of the invention. This gently rounded rim is a result of undercutting the oxide beneath not seen in by the powder blasting process.

The transverse dimension d of the microchannels can range from nominally 1 m to 1 mm but preferably is in the 20 500 m interval. Metal oxide is produced for example from the original Al material and microchannels are produced in a first oxide layer by powder blasting laser ablation or another suitable technique. If desired a barrier film can be deposited on the walls of the microchannels .

In preferred embodiments a single device or an array of devices is completed by joining a second layer having the same structure as that of the first layer as exemplified by to the first layer such that the microcavities or microchannels in both layers are intentionally aligned or if desired offset. shows an embodiment where two identical layers and with thick high quality oxide are joined such that microcavities or microchannels or are aligned to form a combined channel and the encapsulated metal forms separate electrodes . shows a variation in which one of the electrodes is formed on the top of the second dielectric layer . In this case the second dielectric layer can be for example a glass or ceramic substrate that is bonded to the thick oxide of the layer with adhesive e.g. glass frit. also schematically illustrates nanopores which form automatically from the present methods of fabrication and are oriented perpendicularly to the plane of the metal substrate.

However in preferred embodiments electrodes are completely isolated from the microcavities or microchannels to protect the electrodes from plasma generated therein. In such preferred embodiments as illustrated in for production of a microplasma a time varying voltage waveform V is applied between the two electrodes . In a structure like that shown in if an electrode is not covered with metal oxide by a second anodization process then two electrodes can be driven with a DC voltage but this DC driving mode is possible only if both electrodes are exposed to the plasma. Generally it is preferred to protect the electrodes with oxide as the plasma will etch the exposed metal electrodes.

In the above arrays regardless of whether the microcavity or microchannel is confined to the oxide or extends into a metal substrate or not a critical aspect of this invention is that the sharp edge produced between the oxide surface and the microcavity sidewall is produced in an already existing layer of high quality defect free AlO. This is important because the micropowder blasting process or comparable material removal process does not significantly damage the nanoporous structure of the oxide as it forms the cavity. In the previous work discussed in the background the microchannel or microcavity is formed first by a variety of methods and then the oxide was grown. Such processes require the growth of the oxide over a reasonably sharp edge which presents a problem because the axes of the hexagonal nanopores in nanoporous AlOare always oriented orthogonal to the surface on which the oxide is grown. This means that if one grows AlOaround a sharp corner the axis of the pores rotates rapidly and requires a pitch center to center spacing between the pores that is much larger at the surface of the AlOfilm than it is at the base of the film i.e. at the Al AlOinterface . Attempting to do this produces considerable stress in the AlOfilm which can result in cracks. Such cracks can lead to electrical breakdown when one generates plasma in the microcavities. One way to ameliorate this difficulty was to coat the AlOfilms with thin films of glass which also flowed into the cracks. This is effective but glass does not have the dielectric properties of AlOso using glass negates to some extent the value of employing nanoporous AlO.

A wide variety of dimensions can be achieved in arrays of the invention. Example dimensions are presented now with respect to the labels in . also illustrate the steps in a fabrication process as well as a resultant microcavity or microchannel device similar to that of which has a small aperture in the form of a nozzle at the base of the microcavity. A starting Al foil thickness in is in the range of 0.03 3 mm. Anodization is typically conducted in 0.3M oxalic acid with a 40V 150 V voltage at 1 C. for 3 12 hours. In a microcavity or microchannel is formed typical dimensions after powder blasting are 0.05 5 mm b 0.05 5 mm c 0.01 0.5 mm d 0.01 5 mm and e 0.005 0.2 mm. In after a second anodization using the same conditions typical dimensions are a 0.05 5 mm b 0.05 5 mm c 0.01 0.5 mm d 0.01 5 mm e 0.001 0.2 mm and f 0.01 0.2 mm. The AlOthickness between the Al electrode edges and the microcavity wall is typically between 10 m and 200 m. An additional layer similar to the upper layers in is required. The two electrodes are driven by a time varying voltage and the microchannel is filled with a gas or gas mixture to serve as a plasma medium.

An array of devices of the invention was fabricated and is shown in . The photograph was taken of an array of AlOmicroplasma devices of the invention operating in laboratory air. Operation of any plasma in air is generally difficult because oxygen O is strongly attaching. This means that Orapidly absorbs electrons from a plasma making it extremely difficult to sustain the plasma. Consequently discharges in air are generally arcs or streamers such as lightning bolts as opposed to a diffuse glow discharge. Because of the size of the cavities in and the structure of the microplasmas of are diffuse glows.

Arrays of the invention lend themselves to many important applications including the efficient production of ozone O for water disinfection and treatment deodorization decoloration precipitation of contaminants . Preliminary experiments show clearly that this is quite feasible by flowing air or Othrough arrays of microchannels such as those of . The arrays with thick high quality oxide are readily stacked as modules. Forcing air or Oto travel through the intense microplasmas converts a fraction of the Ofeedstock gas into ozone. The number and spacing between the arrays can be varied so as to optimize the efficiency with which ozone is generated.

In addition greenhouse gases such as COmay be transformed into an industrially valuable feedstock such as ethanol or formic acid by passing COthrough a series of microplasma arrays like that in to provide a gas reactor device or system. As a portion of COis fragmented dissociated it can be reacted titrated with water vapor hydrogen or other gases or liquids so as to form gases and liquids of industrial value. This can be accomplished in stages in which the desired product is removed after each stage of microplasma action and fresh reactant CO added to the flowstream.

The geometry of the cavities that can be formed is quite broad. For example the mask for the micropowder blasting process can be designed so as to result in the fabrication of microchannels as illustrated in . Note that the electrode can extend the full length of each trench or if desired the electrode can be modulated so as to have a sequence of electrodes of length L and separated by a desired distance. This is accomplished by interrupting the electrode. In this way virtually any pattern of electrode structure can be fabricated in a metal metal oxide system of the invention

Furthermore the channels of an array need not themselves be uniform along their entire length. For example is a photograph of a six channel microreactor fabricated in Al AlO. In this embodiment of the invention the linear channels are punctuated by circular cavities interspersed at regular intervals along the channel. The plasma parameters in the circular cavities differ from those in the narrow linear channels and their volumes are not only intended to affect the microplasma chemistry but also to provide significant light emission so as to serve as a diagnostic of the reactor chemistry.

Other exemplary applications of embodiments of the invention pertain to the formation of plasma jets. is a photograph of an array of 37 microplasma jet devices designed and fabricated according to the invention. Having the cross sectional design of each of the jet devices produces a plasma that extends through the nozzle of the microcavity cf. and into room air or whatever gas exists in the region outside the device . The photograph in shows the plasma jets produced in room air when He gas is flowed through the jet array entering from the side of each microcavity with the larger aperture . illustrate the dimensions of an experimental array and shows the calculated electric field intensity in a plasma jet structure with straight side walls and two sequential nozzles one of which forms a gas outlet which were stacked in two layers as shown in and . A gas inlet provides feedstock gas. The compact array was sealed to a glass tube that provided a connection to the He feedstock gas supply. This embodiment of the invention is well suited for medical therapeutics such as wound disinfection and blood coagulation. Arrays having a configuration similar to that of are also of value for providing small amounts of thrust on the order of milli Newtons for maneuvering purposes for nano satellites. 

Arrays of the invention can be fabricated quickly and efficiently. has already demonstrated that thick high quality AlOfilms can be grown much more rapidly than previously. illustrate the etching rates for both Al and AlOthat are achievable with micropowder blasting. The time necessary to etch through 250 m of Al is shown in as a function of the backing pressure psi on a circular nozzle having a diameter of 300 m. The mean diameter of the particles in the micropowder flow is 10 m. shows the time required to etch through a 158 m thick layer of nanoporous AlOthat has been grown on Al.

Arrays of the invention have many applications including displays sensing and detection equipment such as chromatography devices and for phototherapeutic treatments including photodynamic therapy . Arrays of the invention are exceptionally robust and can be used to form stackable modules. This makes arrays of the invention especially well suited for important green technology. Specifically the conversion and breakdown of greenhouse gases such as CO into a more benign form and preferably into an industrial feedstock gas or vapor is a growing national priority. The inventors have recognized that arrays in accordance with the invention can meet an important need of energy technologies that produce CO as a byproduct. By providing for the breakdown of the CO. The invention will impact the environmental and economic sustainability of such energy producing technologies. Processes that produce COare not practical unless the COis disposed of destroyed or converted to an environmentally friendly product because of the increasing atmospheric concentration of COthat has been tied to global warming. The problem is exacerbated by the rising demand for energy. New coal gasification techniques for example are promising insofar as sulfur removal is concerned but enormous amounts of COare produced which of course cannot simply be released into the atmosphere. Some have planned to dispose of the COgenerated by coal gasification on site and to do so by sequestering the gas deep within the earth. Recent experiments at the University of Illinois have successfully generated uniform diffuse plasma in 1 atmosphere of pure COin microchannels such as those in thus representing an alternative technique for disposing of carbon dioxide and other gases and vapors of environmental concern.

Gas reactor devices of the invention can for example decompose gases such as CO CH or NO. Arrays and devices of the invention provide a more attractive solution than storing or sequestering CO. By transforming carbon dioxide into a benign gas or liquid such plasma produced products can be safely released into the atmosphere or more preferably be recycled by converting it through a plasma chemical process in an array of microcavity plasmas into an industrially valuable feedstock chemical such as formic acid or methanol. In this way a present liability of power generation from coal or natural gas becomes an asset and the economics of power generation and delivery can be altered radically.

Arrays of the invention are also particularly well suited for ozone generation for the purpose of water purification disinfection and water treatment through deodorization and decoloration. Purifying water with ozone as opposed to chlorine or bromine is preferable for both environmental and biological efficacy reasons. Ozone is more effective in destroying pathogens and drugs whose presence in municipal water systems is of growing concern. One of the few options available for processing gases in large volumes is plasma processing. However gases such as COand Ohave in the past been notoriously difficult to handle because these gases absorb electrons quickly which usually produces arcing and oftentimes leads to destruction of the plasma reactor. Furthermore molecules such as carbon dioxide are strongly bound requiring large energies to break the C O bond for example. Microcavity plasma device arrays of the invention bypass these limitations entirely by confining the plasma to a cavity thereby eliminating the tendency of oxygen containing plasmas for example to collapse into an arc. The microplasma device arrays produced previously by the present inventors and colleagues have proven to be effective with a wide variety of gases suitable for displays lighting medical applications etc. However industrial processing of attaching gases gases such as Othat absorb electrons quickly requires an extraordinarily robust structure that is nevertheless inexpensive to fabricate. Furthermore since the gas volume to be processed can be large up to thousands of liters per hour or more and the volume of microcavity plasma devices is necessarily small a modular array that can be stacked is important and is provided by arrays of the invention. Arrays of the invention provide modules of devices that are easily constructed of individual arrays and can be stacked and or placed end to end. To date arrays of 48 parallel microchannels have been fabricated. One embodiment comprised four 12 microchannel arrays stacked back to back. It should also be mentioned that the microplasma arrays of the invention are well suited for producing in situ and on demand gases known to be effective for medical treatment. One example is NO which in small concentrations 5 80 ppm in air is known to be of value in medical treatments.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

