---

title: Ultrapure synthetic carbon materials
abstract: The present application is generally directed to ultrapure synthetic carbon materials having both high surface area and high porosity, ultrapure polymer gels and devices containing the same. The disclosed ultrapure synthetic carbon materials find utility in any number of devices, for example, in electric double layer capacitance devices and batteries. Methods for making ultrapure synthetic carbon materials and ultrapure polymer gels are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580321&OS=09580321&RS=09580321
owner: BASF SE
number: 09580321
owner_city: Ludwigshafen
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20150609
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 767 711 filed Feb. 14 2013 now allowed which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 829 282 filed Jul. 1 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 404 384 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 222 431 filed on Jul. 1 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 255 037 filed on Oct. 26 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 255 054 filed on Oct. 26 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 261 703 filed on Nov. 16 2009 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Partial funding of the work described herein was provided by the U.S. Government under Contract No. W15P7T 09 C S311 provided by the Department of Defense. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention generally relates to ultrapure synthetic carbon materials methods for making the same and devices containing the same.

Activated carbon is commonly employed in electrical storage and distribution devices. The high surface area conductivity and porosity of activated carbon allows for the design of electrical devices having higher energy density than devices employing other materials. Electric double layer capacitors EDLCs are an example of such devices. EDLCs often have electrodes prepared from an activated carbon material and a suitable electrolyte and have an extremely high energy density compared to more common capacitors. Typical uses for EDLCs include energy storage and distribution in devices requiring short bursts of power for data transmissions or peak power functions such as wireless modems mobile phones digital cameras and other hand held electronic devices. EDLCs are also commonly use in electric vehicles such as electric cars trains buses and the like.

Batteries are another common energy storage and distribution device which often contain an activated carbon material e.g. as anode material current collector or conductivity enhancer . For example lithium carbon batteries having a carbonaceous anode intercalated with lithium represent a promising energy storage device. Other types of carbon containing batteries include lithium air batteries which use porous carbon as the current collector for the air electrode and lead acid batteries which often include carbon additives in either the anode or cathode. Batteries are employed in any number of electronic devices requiring low current density electrical power as compared to an EDLC s high current density .

One known limitation of EDLCs and carbon based batteries is decreased performance at high temperature high voltage operation repeated charge discharge cycles and or upon aging. This decreased performance has been attributed to electrolyte impurity or impurities in the carbon electrode itself causing breakdown of the electrode at the electrolyte electrode interface. Thus it has been suggested that EDLCs and or batteries comprising electrodes prepared from higher purity carbon materials could be operated at higher voltages and for longer periods of time at higher temperatures than existing devices.

Although the need for higher purity carbon materials having both high surface area and high porosity has been recognized such carbon material is not commercially available and no reported preparation method is capable of yielding the high purity carbon desired for high performance electrical devices. One common method for producing high surface area activated carbon materials is to pyrolyze an existing carbon containing material e.g. coconut fibers or tire rubber . This results in a char with relatively low surface area which can subsequently be over activated to produce a material with the surface area and porosity necessary for the desired application. Such an approach is inherently limited by the existing structure of the precursor material and typically results in low process yields and a carbon material having an ash content i.e. metal impurities of 1 or higher.

Activated carbon materials can also be prepared by chemical activation. For example treatment of a carbon containing material with an acid base or salt e.g. phosphoric acid potassium hydroxide sodium hydroxide zinc chloride etc. followed by heating results in an activated carbon material. However such chemical activation produces activated carbon materials with a high level of residual process impurities e.g. metals .

Another approach for producing high surface area activated carbon materials is to prepare a synthetic polymer from carbon containing organic building blocks e.g. a ultrapure polymer gel . As with the existing organic materials the synthetically prepared polymers are pyrolyzed and activated to produce an activated carbon material. In contrast to the traditional approach described above the intrinsic porosity of the synthetically prepared polymer results in higher process yields because less material is lost during the activation step. However as with carbon materials prepared from other known methods activated carbon materials prepared from synthetic polymers via reported methods contain unsuitable levels of impurities e.g. metals .

While significant advances have been made in the field there continues to be a need in the art for highly pure carbon materials as well as for methods of making the same and devices containing the same. The present invention fulfills these needs and provides further related advantages.

In general terms the present invention is directed to ultrapure synthetic carbon materials as well as to methods for making such materials and to devices containing the same. Such materials find application in the context of electrical storage and distribution devices particularly for use in electrodes for EDLCs and batteries. Existing carbon materials contain residual levels of various impurities e.g. chlorine sulfur metals etc. which are known to decrease the breakdown voltage of the electrolyte in which the electrodes are immersed. Thus existing electrodes must be operated at lower voltages and have a shorter life span than devices comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon materials of this invention. The impurities in carbon electrodes also contribute to degradation of other components within an EDLC or battery. For example the porous membrane which separates the two carbon electrodes in an EDLC may be degraded by chlorine or other impurities within the carbon electrode. The ultrapure synthetic carbon materials disclosed herein are significantly more pure than any known carbon materials and thus improve the operation of any number of electrical storage and or distribution devices

Accordingly in one embodiment an ultrapure synthetic carbon material is disclosed. The ultrapure synthetic carbon material comprises a total impurity content of less than 500 ppm of elements having atomic numbers ranging from 11 to 92 as measured by proton induced x ray emission. In another embodiment of the foregoing the carbon material is an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material.

In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a total impurity content of less than 200 ppm of elements having atomic numbers ranging from 11 to 92 as measured by proton induced x ray emission.

In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises an ash content of less than 0.03 for example less than 0.01 as calculated from proton induced x ray emission data.

In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises at least 95 carbon by weight as measured by combustion analysis and proton induced x ray emission.

In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 3 ppm iron less than 1 ppm nickel less than 5 ppm sulfur less than 1 ppm chromium or less than 1 ppm copper as measured by proton induced x ray emission.

In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 100 ppm sodium less than 300 ppm silicon less than 50 ppm sulfur less than 100 ppm calcium less than 20 ppm iron less than 10 ppm nickel less than 140 ppm copper less than 5 ppm chromium and less than 5 ppm zinc as measured by proton induced x ray emission. For example in some embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 50 ppm sodium less than 50 ppm silicon less than 30 ppm sulfur less than 10 ppm calcium less than 2 ppm iron less than 1 ppm nickel less than 1 ppm copper less than 1 ppm chromium and less than 1 ppm zinc as measured by proton induced x ray emission.

In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 3.0 oxygen less than 0.1 nitrogen and less than 0.5 hydrogen as determined by combustion analysis. For example in other specific embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 1.0 oxygen as determined by combustion analysis.

In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer cryogel. While in other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises an activated ultrapure polymer cryogel.

In some other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a BET specific surface area of at least 1500 m g at least 2000 m g or at least 2400 m g.

In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a pore volume of at least 0.7 cc g.

In another embodiment an ultrapure polymer gel is provided. The ultrapure polymer gel comprises carbon hydrogen oxygen and a total impurity content of less than 500 ppm and typically less than 200 ppm of elements having atomic numbers ranging from 11 to 92 as measured by proton induced x ray emission.

In some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel is a dried ultrapure polymer gel. In another embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel comprises a BET specific surface area of at least 400 m g.

In some other embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel is prepared by admixing one or more miscible solvents one or more phenolic compounds one or more aldehydes and one or more catalysts. For example in some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel is prepared by admixing water acetic acid resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate.

This high purity of the disclosed carbon materials can be attributed to the disclosed sol gel process. Applicants have discovered that when one or more polymer precursors for example a phenolic compound and an aldehyde are co polymerized under acidic conditions in the presence of a volatile basic catalyst an ultrapure polymer gel results. This is in contrast to other reported methods for the preparation of ultrapure polymer gels which result in ultrapure polymer gels comprising residual levels of metals and or other impurities as well as residual levels of reaction solvent and or extraction solvent. Preparation of carbon materials from these impure ultrapure polymer gels for example by pyrolysis and or activation results in carbon materials which are also impure.

The disclosed ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material may be made from the ultrapure polymer gel by pyrolysis and or activation of the ultrapure polymer gel The ultrapure polymer gel in turn may be made by reacting one or more polymer precursors under acidic conditions in the presence of a volatile basic catalyst to obtain a ultrapure polymer gel.

Accordingly in one embodiment the present disclosure provides a method for making an ultrapure synthetic carbon material the method comprising reacting one or more polymer precursors under acidic conditions in the presence of a volatile basic catalyst to obtain an ultrapure polymer gel. In a further embodiment the carbon material is an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material.

In other embodiments the method further comprises admixing the one or more polymer precursors in a solvent comprising acetic acid and water. In other embodiments the volatile basic catalyst comprises ammonium carbonate ammonium bicarbonate ammonium acetate ammonium hydroxide or combinations thereof and in other embodiments the one or more polymer precursors comprise resorcinol and formaldehyde.

The ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material finds utility in any number of electrical storage and distribution devices. The combination of ultrapurity high porosity and high surface area allows for the preparation of electrical storage and distribution devices having properties superior to known devices. The devices comprising the ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material are capable of operation at higher voltages for longer periods of time at higher temperatures than comparable devices prepared from lower purity carbon.

Accordingly in another embodiment the present disclosure provides a device comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material wherein the ultrapure synthetic carbon material comprises a total impurity content of less than 500 ppm particularly 200 ppm of elements having atomic numbers ranging from 11 to 92 as measured by proton induced x ray emission. For example in some other embodiments of the foregoing the carbon material is an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material.

a a positive electrode and a negative electrode wherein each of the positive and the negative electrodes comprise the ultrapure synthetic carbon material 

wherein the positive electrode and the negative electrode are separated by the inert porous separator.

In some further embodiments the EDLC device comprises a gravimetric power of at least 15 W g a volumetric power of at least 10 W cc a gravimetric energy of at least 20.0 Wh kg or a volumetric energy of at least 10.0 Wh liter.

In some other embodiments the EDLC device comprises a gravimetric capacitance of at least of at least 25 F g or a volumetric capacitance of at least of at least 20 F cc as measured by constant current discharge from 2.7 V to 0.1 V with a 5 second time constant employing a 1.8 M solution of tetraethylammonium tetrafluoroborate in acetonitrile electrolyte and a current density of 0.5 A g.

In some other further embodiments of the EDLC device the ash content of the carbon material is less than 0.03 particularly less than 0.01 as calculated from proton induced x ray emission data and in some other embodiments the carbon material comprises at least 95 carbon as measured by combustion analysis and proton induced x ray emission.

In some other embodiments of the EDLC device the carbon material comprises less than 3 ppm iron less than 1 ppm nickel less than 5 ppm sulfur less than 1 ppm chromium or less than 1 ppm copper as measured by proton induced x ray emission.

In yet other embodiments of the EDLC device the carbon material comprises less than 100 ppm sodium less than 300 ppm silicon less than 100 ppm calcium less than 50 ppm sulfur less than 20 ppm iron less than 10 ppm nickel less than 140 ppm copper less than 5 ppm chromium and less than 5 ppm zinc as measured by proton induced x ray emission.

In some other embodiments of the EDLC device the carbon material comprises an activated ultrapure polymer cryogel and in some other embodiments of the EDLC device the carbon material comprises a BET specific surface area of at least 1500 m g at least 2000 m g or at least 2400 m g.

In other particular embodiments the present disclosure is directed to a battery for example a lithium carbon battery zinc carbon battery lithium air battery or lead acid battery comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material as disclosed herein. In other embodiments the present disclosure is directed to an electrode comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material as disclosed herein. Such electrodes are useful in electrical storage and distribution devices such as EDLCs and batteries.

In the following description certain specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. However one skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known structures have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring descriptions of the embodiments. Unless the context requires otherwise throughout the specification and claims which follow the word comprise and variations thereof such as comprises and comprising are to be construed in an open inclusive sense that is as including but not limited to. Further headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not interpret the scope or meaning of the claimed invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. Also as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. It should also be noted that the term or is generally employed in its sense including and or unless the content clearly dictates otherwise.

As used herein and unless the context dictates otherwise the following terms have the meanings as specified below.

 Carbon material refers to a material or substance comprised substantially of carbon. Carbon materials include both amorphous and crystalline carbon materials. Examples of carbon materials include but are not limited to activated carbon pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gels pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer cryogels pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer xerogels pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer aerogels activated dried ultrapure polymer gels activated ultrapure polymer cryogels activated ultrapure polymer xerogels activated ultrapure polymer aerogels and the like.

 Amorphous refers to a material for example an amorphous carbon material whose constituent atoms molecules or ions are arranged randomly without a regular repeating pattern. Amorphous materials may have some localized crystallinity i.e. regularity but lack long range order of the positions of the atoms. Pyrolyzed and or activated carbon materials are generally amorphous.

 Crystalline refers to a material whose constituent atoms molecules or ions are arranged in an orderly repeating pattern. Examples of crystalline carbon materials include but are not limited to diamond and graphene.

 Synthetic refers to a substance which has been prepared by chemical means rather than from a natural source. For example a synthetic carbon material is one which is synthesized from precursor materials and is not isolated from natural sources.

 Impurity or impurity element refers to a foreign substance e.g. an element within a material which differs from the chemical composition of the base material. For example an impurity in an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material refers to any element or combination of elements other than carbon which is present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or the ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material. Impurity levels are typically expressed in parts per million ppm .

 PIXE impurity is any impurity element having an atomic number ranging from 11 to 92 i.e. from sodium to uranium . The phrases total PIXE impurity content and total PIXE impurity level both refer to the sum of all PIXE impurities present in a sample for example an ultrapure polymer gel an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material. PIXE impurity concentrations and identities may be determined by proton induced x ray emission PIXE .

 Ultrapure refers to a substance having a total PIXE impurity content of less than 0.050 . For example an ultrapure carbon material ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is a carbon material having a total PIXE impurity content of less than 0.050 i.e. 500 ppm .

 Ash content refers to the nonvolatile inorganic matter which remains after subjecting a substance to a high decomposition temperature. Herein the ash content of a carbon material is calculated from the total PIXE impurity content as measured by proton induced x ray emission assuming that nonvolatile elements are completely converted to expected combustion products i.e. oxides .

 Synthetic polymer precursor material or polymer precursor refers to the compounds used in the preparation of a synthetic polymer. Examples of polymer precursors that can be used in the preparations disclosed herein include but are not limited to aldehydes i.e. HC O R where R is an organic group such as for example methanal formaldehyde ethanal acetaldehyde propanal propionaldehyde butanal butyraldehyde glucose benzaldehyde and cinnamaldehyde. Other exemplary polymer precursors include but are not limited to phenolic compounds such as phenol and polyhydroxy benzenes such as dihydroxy or trihydroxy benzenes for example resorcinol i.e. 1 3 dihydroxy benzene catechol hydroquinone and phloroglucinol. Mixtures of two or more polyhydroxy benzenes are also contemplated within the meaning of polymer precurser.

 Sol refers to a colloidal suspension of precursor particles e.g. polymer precursers and the term gel refers to a wet three dimensional porous network obtained by condensation or reaction of the precursor particles.

 Polymer gel refers to a gel in which the network component is a polymer generally a polymer gel is a wet aqueous or non aqueous based three dimensional structure comprised of a polymer formed from synthetic precursors or polymer precursers.

 Sol gel refers to a sub class of polymer gel where the polymer is a colloidal suspension that forms a wet three dimensional porous network obtained by reaction of the polymer precursers.

 Polymer hydrogel or hydrogel refers to a subclass of polymer gel or gel wherein the solvent for the synthetic precursors or monomers is water or mixtures of water and one or more water miscible solvent.

 RF polymer hydrogel refers to a sub class of polymer gel wherein the polymer was formed from the catalyzed reaction of resorcinol and formaldehyde in water or mixtures of water and one or more water miscible solvent.

 Acid refers to any substance that is capable of lowering the pH of a solution. Acids include Arrhenius Br nsted and Lewis acids. A solid acid refers to a dried or granular compound that yields an acidic solution when dissolved in a solvent. The term acidic means having the properties of an acid.

 Base refers to any substance that is capable of raising the pH of a solution. Bases include Arrhenius Br nsted and Lewis bases. A solid base refers to a dried or granular compound that yields basic solution when dissolved in a solvent. The term basic means having the properties of a base.

 Mixed solvent system refers to a solvent system comprised of two or more solvents for example two or more miscible solvents. Examples of binary solvent systems i.e. containing two solvents include but are not limited to water and acetic acid water and formic acid water and propionic acid water and butyric acid and the like. Examples of ternary solvent systems i.e. containing three solvents include but are not limited to water acetic acid and ethanol water acetic acid and acetone water acetic acid and formic acid water acetic acid and propionic acid and the like. The present invention contemplates all mixed solvent systems comprising two or more solvents.

 Miscible refers to the property of a mixture wherein the mixture forms a single phase over certain ranges of temperature pressure and composition.

 Catalyst is a substance which alters the rate of a chemical reaction. Catalysts participate in a reaction in a cyclic fashion such that the catalyst is cyclically regenerated. The present disclosure contemplates catalysts which are sodium free. The catalyst used in the preparation of a ultrapure polymer gel as described herein can be any compound that facilitates the polymerization of the polymer precursers to form an ultrapure polymer gel. A volatile catalyst is a catalyst which has a tendency to vaporize at or below atmospheric pressure. Exemplary volatile catalysts include but are not limited to ammoniums salts such as ammonium bicarbonate ammonium carbonate ammonium hydroxide and combinations thereof.

 Solvent refers to a substance which dissolves or suspends reactants e.g. ultrapure polymer precursors and provides a medium in which a reaction may occur. Examples of solvents useful in the preparation of the gels ultrapure polymer gels ultrapure synthetic carbon materials and ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials disclosed herein include but are not limited to water alcohols and mixtures thereof. Exemplary alcohols include ethanol t butanol methanol and mixtures thereof. Such solvents are useful for dissolution of the synthetic ultrapure polymer precursor materials for example dissolution of a phenolic or aldehyde compound. In addition in some processes such solvents are employed for solvent exchange in a polymer hydrogel prior to freezing and drying wherein the solvent from the polymerization of the precursors for example resorcinol and formaldehyde is exchanged for a pure alcohol. In one embodiment of the present application a cryogel is prepared by a process that does not include solvent exchange.

 Dried gel or dried ultrapure polymer gel refers to a gel or ultrapure polymer gel respectively from which the solvent generally water or mixture of water and one or more water miscible solvents has been substantially removed.

 Pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gel refers to a dried ultrapure polymer gel which has been pyrolyzed but not yet activated while an activated dried ultrapure polymer gel refers to a dried ultrapure polymer gel which has been activated.

 Cryogel refers to a dried gel that has been dried by freeze drying. Analogously an ultrapure polymer cryogel is a dried ultrapure polymer gel that has been dried by freeze drying.

 RF cryogel or RF ultrapure polymer cryogel refers to a dried gel or dried ultrapure polymer gel respectively that has been dried by freeze drying wherein the gel or ultrapure polymer gel was formed from the catalyzed reaction of resorcinol and formaldehyde.

 Pyrolyzed cryogel or pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer cryogel is a cryogel or ultrapure polymer cryogel respectively that has been pyrolyzed but not yet activated.

 Activated cryogel or activated ultrapure polymer cryogel is a cryogel or ultrapure polymer cryogel respectively which has been activated to obtain activated carbon material.

 Xerogel refers to a dried gel that has been dried by air drying for example at or below atmospheric pressure. Analogously a ultrapure polymer xerogel is a dried ultrapure polymer gel that has been dried by air drying.

 Pyrolyzed xerogel or pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer xerogel is a xerogel or ultrapure polymer xerogel respectively that has been pyrolyzed but not yet activated.

 Activated xerogel or activated ultrapure polymer xerogel is a xerogel or ultrapure polymer xerogel respectively which has been activated to obtain activated carbon material.

 Aerogel refers to a dried gel that has been dried by supercritical drying for example using supercritical carbon dioxide. Analogously an ultrapure polymer aerogel is a dried ultrapure polymer gel that has been dried by supercritical drying.

 Pyrolyzed aerogel or pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer aerogel is an aerogel or ultrapure polymer aerogel respectively that has been pyrolyzed but not yet activated.

 Activated aerogel or activated ultrapure polymer aerogel is an aerogel or ultrapure polymer aerogel respectively which has been activated to obtain activated carbon material.

 Organic extraction solvent refers to an organic solvent added to a polymer hydrogel after polymerization of the polymer precursers has begun generally after polymerization of the polymer hydrogel is complete.

 Rapid multi directional freezing refers to the process of freezing a polymer gel by creating polymer gel particles from a monolithic polymer gel and subjecting said polymer gel particles to a suitably cold medium. The cold medium can be for example liquid nitrogen nitrogen gas or solid carbon dioxide. During rapid multi directional freezing nucleation of ice dominates over ice crystal growth. The suitably cold medium can be for example a gas liquid or solid with a temperature below about 10 C. Alternatively the suitably cold medium can be a gas liquid or solid with a temperature below about 20 C. Alternatively the suitably cold medium can be a gas liquid or solid with a temperature below about 30 C.

 Activate and activation each refer to the process of heating a raw material or carbonized pyrolyzed substance at an activation dwell temperature during exposure to oxidizing atmospheres e.g. carbon dioxide oxygen or steam to produce an activated substance e.g. activated cryogel or activated carbon material . The activation process generally results in a stripping away of the surface of the particles resulting in an increased surface area. Alternatively activation can be accomplished by chemical means for example by impregnation of carbon containing precursor materials with chemicals such as acids like phosphoric acid or bases like potassium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or salts like zinc chloride followed by carbonization. Activated refers to a material or substance for example an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material which has undergone the process of activation.

 Carbonizing pyrolyzing carbonization and pyrolysis each refer to the process of heating a carbon containing substance at a pyrolysis dwell temperature in an inert atmosphere e.g. argon or nitrogen or in a vacuum such that the targeted material collected at the end of the process is primarily carbon. Pyrolyzed refers to a material or substance for example an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material which has undergone the process of pyrolysis.

 Dwell temperature refers to the temperature of the furnace during the portion of a process which is reserved for maintaining a relatively constant temperature i.e. neither increasing nor decreasing the temperature . For example the pyrolysis dwell temperature refers to the relatively constant temperature of the furnace during pyrolysis and the activation dwell temperature refers to the relatively constant temperature of the furnace during activation.

 Pore refers to an opening or depression in the surface or a tunnel in a carbon material such as for example activated carbon pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gels pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer cryogels pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer xerogels pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer aerogels activated dried ultrapure polymer gels activated ultrapure polymer cryogels activated ultrapure polymer xerogels activated ultrapure polymer aerogels and the like. A pore can be a single tunnel or connected to other tunnels in a continuous network throughout the structure.

 Pore structure refers to the layout of the surface of the internal pores within a carbon material such as an activated carbon material. Components of the pore structure include pore size pore volume surface area density pore size distribution and pore length. Generally the pore structure of activated carbon material comprises micropores and mesopores.

 Mesopore generally refers to pores having a diameter between about 2 nanometers and about 50 nanometers while the term micropore refers to pores having a diameter less than about 2 nanometers.

 Surface area refers to the total specific surface area of a substance measurable by the BET technique. Surface area is typically expressed in units of m g. The BET Brunauer Emmett Teller technique employs an inert gas for example nitrogen to measure the amount of gas adsorbed on a material and is commonly used in the art to determine the accessible surface area of materials.

 Connected when used in reference to mesopores and micropores refers to the spatial orientation of such pores.

 Effective length refers to the portion of the length of the pore that is of sufficient diameter such that it is available to accept salt ions from the electrolyte.

 Tunable refers to an ability to adjust up or down the pore size pore volume surface area density pore size distribution pore length or combinations thereof of either or both of the mesopores and micropores of a carbon material. For example tunability may refer to adjusting pore size to accommodate targeted electrolyte ions as appropriate when the ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials described herein are employed as electrode materials. In some embodiments the pore structure of an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material can be tuned. For example in the preparation of an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material tuning the pore structure can be accomplished a number of ways including but not limited to varying parameters in the production of a ultrapure polymer gel varying parameters in the freeze drying of the ultrapure polymer gel varying parameters in the carbonizing of the ultrapure polymer cryogel and varying the parameters in the activation of the pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer cryogel.

 Electrode refers to a conductor through which electricity enters or leaves an object substance or region.

 Binder refers to a material capable of holding individual particles of carbon together such that after mixing a binder and carbon together the resulting mixture can be formed into sheets pellets disks or other shapes. Non exclusive examples of binders include fluoroultrapure polymers such as for example PTFE polytetrafluoroethylene Teflon PFA perfluoroalkoxy ultrapure polymer resin also known as Teflon FEP fluorinated ethylene propylene also known as Teflon ETFE polyethylenetetrafluoroethylene sold as Tefzel and Fluon PVF polyvinyl fluoride sold as Tedlar ECTFE polyethylenechlorotrifluoroethylene sold as Halar PVDF polyvinylidene fluoride sold as Kynar PCTFE polychlorotrifluoroethylene sold as Kel F and CTFE trifluoroethanol and combinations thereof.

 Inert refers to a material that is not active in the electrolyte that is it does not absorb a significant amount of ions or change chemically e.g. degrade.

 Conductive refers to the ability of a material to conduct electrons through transmission of loosely held valence electrons.

 Electrolyte means a substance containing free ions such that the substance is electrically conductive. Examples of electrolytes include but are not limited to solvents such as propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate butylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate methyl ethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate sulfolane methylsulfolane acetonitrile or mixtures thereof in combination with solutes such as tetralkylammonium salts such as TEA TFB tetraethylammonium tetrafluoroborate MTEATFB methyltriethylammonium tetrafluoroborate EMITFB 1 ethyl 3 methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate tetraethylammonium triethylammonium based salts or mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the electrolyte can be a water based acid or water based base electrolyte such as mild aqueous sulfuric acid or aqueous potassium hydroxide.

In one embodiment an ultrapure synthetic carbon material is provided. In another embodiment an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is provided. As discussed above electrodes comprising carbon materials having residual levels of various impurities e.g. chlorine sulfur metals etc. are known to decrease the breakdown voltage of the electrolyte in which the electrodes are immersed. Thus these electrodes must be operated at lower voltages and have a shorter life span than devices comprising higher purity carbon. The impurities in carbon electrodes are also thought to contribute to degradation of other components within an EDLC or battery. For example the porous membrane which separates the two carbon electrodes in an EDLC may be degraded by chlorine or other impurities within the carbon electrode. The ultrapure synthetic carbon materials and ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials disclosed herein are significantly more pure than any known carbon materials and are thus expected to improve the operation of any number of electrical storage and or distribution devices.

This high purity of the disclosed carbon materials can be attributed to the disclosed sol gel process. Applicants have discovered that when one or more polymer precursors for example a phenolic compound and an aldehyde are co polymerized under acidic conditions in the presence of a volatile basic catalyst an ultrapure polymer gel results. This is in contrast to other reported methods for the preparation of polymer gels which result in polymer gels comprising residual levels of metals and or other impurities as well as residual levels of reaction solvent and or extraction solvent. Preparation of carbon materials from these impure polymer gels for example by pyrolysis and or activation results in carbon materials which are also impure.

Contrary to known methods for the preparation of carbon materials the disclosed ultrapure polymer gels allow for the preparation of ultrapure synthetic carbon materials and ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials. For example the ultrapure polymer gels can be pyrolyzed by heating in an inert atmosphere e.g. nitrogen to yield the disclosed carbon materials comprising a high surface area and high pore volume. These carbon materials can be further activated without the use of chemical activation techniques which introduce impurities to obtain the disclosed ultrapure activated carbon materials. Such materials find utility in any number of electrical storage and distribution applications.

The carbon materials prepared by the disclosed method are not only ultrapure they also comprise desirable physical properties such as high porosity and high surface area. As with ultrapurity the high porosity and high surface area of the disclosed carbon materials is a result of the unique process disclosed herein. The disclosed process allows for variation of a number of process parameters to control the physical properties of the carbon materials. The combination of ultrapurity high porosity and high surface area allows for the preparation of electrical storage and distribution devices having properties superior to known devices.

The properties of the disclosed ultrapure polymer gels ultrapure synthetic carbon materials and ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials as well as methods for their preparation are discussed in more detail below.

Ultrapure polymer gels are intermediates in the preparation of the disclosed ultrapure carbon materials. As such the physical and chemical properties of the ultrapure polymer gels contribute to the properties of the ultrapure carbon materials. Accordingly in some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel is a dried ultrapure polymer gel for example in some embodiments the dried ultrapure polymer gel is an ultrapure polymer cryogel. In other embodiments the dried ultrapure polymer gel is an ultrapure polymer xerogel or an ultrapure polymer aerogel. In some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gels are prepared from phenolic compounds and aldehyde compounds for example in one embodiment the ultrapure polymer gels can be produced from resorcinol and formaldehyde. In other embodiments the ultrapure polymer gels are produced under acidic conditions. In some embodiments acidity can be provided by dissolution of a solid acid compound by employing an acid as the reaction solvent or by employing a mixed solvent system where one of the solvents is an acid. Preparation of the ultrapure polymer gels is described in more detail below.

The disclosed process comprises polymerization to form a polymer gel in the presence of a basic volatile catalyst. Accordingly in some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel comprises one or more salts for example in some embodiments the one or more salts are basic volatile salts. Examples of basic volatile salts include but are not limited to ammonium carbonate ammonium bicarbonate ammonium acetate ammonium hydroxide and combinations thereof. Accordingly in some embodiments the present disclosure provides an ultrapure polymer gel comprising ammonium carbonate ammonium bicarbonate ammonium acetate ammonium hydroxide or combinations thereof. In further embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel comprises ammonium carbonate. In other further embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel comprises ammonium acetate.

In one embodiment of any of the aspects or variations described herein the ultrapure polymer gel is essentially free of t butanol. For example in one embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel contains less than 1000 ppm t butanol less than 100 ppm t butanol less than 10 ppm t butanol or less than 1 ppm t butanol.

In another embodiment of any of the aspects or variations described herein the ultrapure polymer gel is essentially free of acetone. For example in one embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel contains less than 1000 ppm acetone less than 100 ppm acetone less than 10 ppm acetone or less than 1 ppm acetone.

The ultrapure polymer gels comprise low levels of impurities. Thus in some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel comprises carbon hydrogen and oxygen and a total PIXE impurity content of 1000 ppm or less. In other embodiments the total PIXE impurity content of the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 800 ppm less than 500 ppm less than 300 ppm less than 200 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 25 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm or less than 1 ppm.

The ultrapure polymer gels may also comprise low ash content which may contribute to the low ash content of an ultrapure carbon material prepared therefrom. Thus in some embodiments the ash content of the ultrapure polymer gel ranges from 0.1 to 0.001 . In other embodiments the ash content of the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 0.1 less than 0.08 less than 0.05 less than 0.03 less than 0.025 less than 0.01 less than 0.0075 less than 0.005 or less than 0.001 .

In other embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 500 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.08 . In a further embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 300 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.05 . In another further embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 200 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.02 . In another further embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 200 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.01 .

As noted above polymer gels comprising impurities generally yield carbon materials which also comprise impurities. Accordingly one aspect of the present disclosure is an ultrapure polymer gel with low residual impurities. The amount of individual PIXE impurities present in the ultrapure polymer gel can be determined by proton induced x ray emission. In some embodiments the level of sodium present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 500 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of magnesium present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of aluminum present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of silicon present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 500 ppm less than 300 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of phosphorous present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of sulfur present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 30 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of chlorine present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of potassium present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In other embodiments the level of calcium present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of chromium present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 4 ppm less than 3 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In other embodiments the level of iron present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 50 ppm less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 4 ppm less than 3 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In other embodiments the level of nickel present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 4 ppm less than 3 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some other embodiments the level of copper present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 140 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 40 ppm less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 4 ppm less than 3 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In yet other embodiments the level of zinc present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In yet other embodiments the sum of all PIXE impurities excluding sodium magnesium aluminum silicon phosphorous sulphur chlorine potassium calcium chromium iron nickel copper and zinc present in the ultrapure polymer gel is less than 1000 ppm less than 500 pm less than 300 ppm less than 200 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 25 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. As noted above in some embodiments other impurities such as hydrogen oxygen and or nitrogen may be present in levels ranging from less than 10 to less than 0.01 .

In some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gels comprise PIXE impurities near or below the detection limit of the proton induced x ray emission analysis. For example in some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gels comprise less than 50 ppm sodium less than 15 ppm magnesium less than 10 ppm aluminum less than 8 ppm silicon less than 4 ppm phosphorous less than 3 ppm sulfur less than 3 ppm chlorine less than 2 ppm potassium less than 3 ppm calcium less than 2 ppm scandium less than 1 ppm titanium less than 1 ppm vanadium less than 0.5 ppm chromium less than 0.5 ppm manganese less than 0.5 ppm iron less than 0.25 ppm cobalt less than 0.25 ppm nickel less than 0.25 ppm copper less than 0.5 ppm zinc less than 0.5 ppm gallium less than 0.5 ppm germanium less than 0.5 ppm arsenic less than 0.5 ppm selenium less than 1 ppm bromine less than 1 ppm rubidium less than 1.5 ppm strontium less than 2 ppm yttrium less than 3 ppm zirconium less than 2 ppm niobium less than 4 ppm molybdenum less than 4 ppm technetium less than 7 ppm rubidium less than 6 ppm rhodium less than 6 ppm palladium less than 9 ppm silver less than 6 ppm cadmium less than 6 ppm indium less than 5 ppm tin less than 6 ppm antimony less than 6 ppm tellurium less than 5 ppm iodine less than 4 ppm cesium less than 4 ppm barium less than 3 ppm lanthanum less than 3 ppm cerium less than 2 ppm praseodymium less than 2 ppm neodymium less than 1.5 ppm promethium less than 1 ppm samarium less than 1 ppm europium less than 1 ppm gadolinium less than 1 ppm terbium less than 1 ppm dysprosium less than 1 ppm holmium less than 1 ppm erbium less than 1 ppm thulium less than 1 ppm ytterbium less than 1 ppm lutetium less than 1 ppm hafnium less than 1 ppm tantalum less than 1 ppm tungsten less than 1.5 ppm rhenium less than 1 ppm osmium less than 1 ppm iridium less than 1 ppm platinum less than 1 ppm silver less than 1 ppm mercury less than 1 ppm thallium less than 1 ppm lead less than 1.5 ppm bismuth less than 2 ppm thorium or less than 4 ppm uranium.

In some specific embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel comprises less than 100 ppm sodium less than 300 ppm silicon less than 50 ppm sulfur less than 100 ppm calcium less than 20 ppm iron less than 10 ppm nickel less than 40 ppm copper less than 5 ppm chromium and less than 5 ppm zinc. In other specific embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel comprises less than 50 ppm sodium less than 100 ppm silicon less than 30 ppm sulfur less than 50 ppm calcium less than 10 ppm iron less than 5 ppm nickel less than 20 ppm copper less than 2 ppm chromium and less than 2 ppm zinc.

In other specific embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel comprises less than 50 ppm sodium less than 50 ppm silicon less than 30 ppm sulfur less than 10 ppm calcium less than 2 ppm iron less than 1 ppm nickel less than 1 ppm copper less than 1 ppm chromium and less than 1 ppm zinc.

In some other specific embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel comprises less than 100 ppm sodium less than 50 ppm magnesium less than 50 ppm aluminum less than 10 ppm sulfur less than 10 ppm chlorine less than 10 ppm potassium less than 1 ppm chromium and less than 1 ppm manganese.

The disclosed method yields an ultrapure polymer gel comprising a high specific surface area. Without being bound by theory it is believed that the surface area of the ultrapure polymer gel contributes at least in part to the desirable surface area properties of the ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials. The surface area can be measured using the BET technique well known to those of skill in the art. In one embodiment of any of the aspects disclosed herein the ultrapure polymer gel has a BET specific surface area of at least 150 m g at least 250 m g at least 400 m g at least 500 m g at least 600 m g or at least 700 m g.

In one embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a BET specific surface area of 100 m g to 1000 m g. Alternatively the ultrapure polymer gel has a BET specific surface area of between 150 m g and 700 m g. Alternatively the ultrapure polymer gel has a BET specific surface area of between 400 m g and 700 m g.

In one embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a tap density of from 0.10 g cc to 0.60 g cc. In one embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a tap density of from 0.15 g cc to 0.25 g cc. In one embodiment of the present disclosure the ultrapure polymer gel has a BET specific surface area of at least 150 m g and a tap density of less than 0.60 g cc. Alternately the ultrapure polymer gel has a BET specific surface area of at least 250 m g and a tap density of less than 0.4 g cc. In another embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a BET specific surface area of at least 500 m g and a tap density of less than 0.30 g cc.

In another embodiment of any of the aspects or variations disclosed herein the ultrapure polymer gel comprises a residual water content of less than 15 less than 13 less than 10 less than 5 or less than 1 .

In one embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a fractional pore volume of pores at or below 100 nm that comprises at least 50 of the total pore volume at least 75 of the total pore volume at least 90 of the total pore volume or at least 99 of the total pore volume. In another embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a fractional pore volume of pores at or below 20 nm that comprises at least 50 of the total pore volume at least 75 of the total pore volume at least 90 of the total pore volume or at least 99 of the total pore volume.

In one embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a fractional pore surface area of pores at or below 100 nm that comprises at least 50 of the total pore surface area at least 75 of the total pore surface area at least 90 of the total pore surface area or at least 99 of the total pore surface area. In another embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel has a fractional pore surface area of pores at or below 20 nm that comprises at least 50 of the total pore surface area at least 75 of the total pore surface area at least 90 of the total pore surface or at least 99 of the total pore surface area.

The ultrapure polymer gels can be prepared by the polymerization of one or more polymer precursors in an appropriate solvent system under catalytic conditions. Accordingly in one embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel is prepared by admixing one or more miscible solvents one or more phenolic compounds one or more aldehydes and one or more catalysts. For example in a further embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel is prepared by admixing water acetic acid resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate. Preparation of ultrapure polymers gels is discussed in more detail below.

As noted above this invention is a directed to a synthetic carbon material which is ultrapure i.e. less than 500 ppm of total PIXE impurities . In some embodiments the synthetic ultrapure carbon material is amorphous. While not wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that the purity and properties of the carbon materials are a function of its preparation method and variation of the preparation parameters may yield carbon materials having different properties. Accordingly in some embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is a pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gel for example a pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer cryogel a pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer xerogel or a pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer aerogel. In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is activated i.e. an ultrapure synthetic activated carbon material . For example in further embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is an activated dried ultrapure polymer gel an activated ultrapure polymer cryogel an activated ultrapure polymer xerogel or an activated ultrapure polymer aerogel.

The ultrapure synthetic carbon material and ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprise low total PIXE impurities. Thus in some embodiments the total PIXE impurity content in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material as measured by proton induced x ray emission is less than 1000 ppm. In other embodiments the total PIXE impurity content in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 800 ppm less than 500 ppm less than 300 ppm less than 200 ppm less than 150 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 25 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In further embodiments of the foregoing the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is a pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gel a pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer cryogel a pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer xerogel a pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer aerogel an activated dried ultrapure polymer gel an activated ultrapure polymer cryogel an activated ultrapure polymer xerogel or an activated ultrapure polymer aerogel.

In addition to low PIXE impurity content the disclosed carbon materials comprise high total carbon content. In addition to carbon the ultrapure synthetic carbon material and ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material may also comprise oxygen hydrogen and nitrogen. In some embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises at least 85 carbon at least 90 carbon at least 95 carbon at least 96 carbon at least 97 carbon at least 98 carbon or at least 99 carbon on a weight weight basis. In some other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 10 oxygen less than 5 oxygen less than 3.0 oxygen less than 2.5 oxygen less than 1 oxygen or less than 0.5 oxygen on a weight weight basis. In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 10 hydrogen less than 5 hydrogen less than 2.5 hydrogen less than 1 hydrogen less than 0.5 hydrogen or less than 0.1 hydrogen on a weight weight basis. In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 5 nitrogen less than 2.5 nitrogen less than 1 nitrogen less than 0.5 nitrogen less than 0.25 nitrogen or less than 0.01 nitrogen on a weight weight basis. The oxygen hydrogen and nitrogen content of the disclosed carbon materials can be determined by combustion analysis. Techniques for determining elemental composition by combustion analysis are well known in the art.

The total ash content of a carbon material may in some instances have an effect on the electrochemical performance of a carbon material. Accordingly in some embodiments the ash content of the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material ranges from 0.1 to 0.001 for example in some specific embodiments the ash content of the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 0.1 less than 0.08 less than 0.05 less than 0.03 than 0.025 less than 0.01 less than 0.0075 less than 0.005 or less than 0.001 .

In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 500 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.08 . In further embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 300 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.05 . In other further embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 200 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.05 . In other further embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 200 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.025 . In other further embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 100 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.02 . In other further embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material has a total PIXE impurity content of less than 50 ppm and an ash content of less than 0.01 .

The amount of individual PIXE impurities present in the disclosed carbon materials can be determined by proton induced x ray emission. Individual PIXE impurities may contribute in different ways to the overall electrochemical performance of the disclosed carbon materials. Thus in some embodiments the level of sodium present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 1000 ppm less than 500 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of magnesium present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of aluminum present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of silicon present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 500 ppm less than 300 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of phosphorous present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of sulfur present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 30 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of chlorine present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of potassium present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In other embodiments the level of calcium present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some embodiments the level of chromium present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 1000 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 4 ppm less than 3 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In other embodiments the level of iron present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 50 ppm less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 4 ppm less than 3 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In other embodiments the level of nickel present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 4 ppm less than 3 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In some other embodiments the level of copper present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 140 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 40 ppm less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 4 ppm less than 3 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In yet other embodiments the level of zinc present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 20 ppm less than 10 ppm less than 5 ppm less than 2 ppm or less than 1 ppm. In yet other embodiments the sum of all PIXE impurities excluding sodium magnesium aluminum silicon phosphorous sulphur chlorine potassium calcium chromium iron nickel copper and zinc present in the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is less than 1000 ppm less than 500 pm less than 300 ppm less than 200 ppm less than 100 ppm less than 50 ppm less than 25 ppm less than 10 ppm or less than 1 ppm. As noted above in some embodiments other impurities such as hydrogen oxygen and or nitrogen may be present in levels ranging from less than 10 to less than 0.01 .

In some embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises PIXE impurities near or below the detection limit of the proton induced x ray emission analysis. For example in some embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 50 ppm sodium less than 15 ppm magnesium less than 10 ppm aluminum less than 8 ppm silicon less than 4 ppm phosphorous less than 3 ppm sulfur less than 3 ppm chlorine less than 2 ppm potassium less than 3 ppm calcium less than 2 ppm scandium less than 1 ppm titanium less than 1 ppm vanadium less than 0.5 ppm chromium less than 0.5 ppm manganese less than 0.5 ppm iron less than 0.25 ppm cobalt less than 0.25 ppm nickel less than 0.25 ppm copper less than 0.5 ppm zinc less than 0.5 ppm gallium less than 0.5 ppm germanium less than 0.5 ppm arsenic less than 0.5 ppm selenium less than 1 ppm bromine less than 1 ppm rubidium less than 1.5 ppm strontium less than 2 ppm yttrium less than 3 ppm zirconium less than 2 ppm niobium less than 4 ppm molybdenum less than 4 ppm technetium less than 7 ppm rubidium less than 6 ppm rhodium less than 6 ppm palladium less than 9 ppm silver less than 6 ppm cadmium less than 6 ppm indium less than 5 ppm tin less than 6 ppm antimony less than 6 ppm tellurium less than 5 ppm iodine less than 4 ppm cesium less than 4 ppm barium less than 3 ppm lanthanum less than 3 ppm cerium less than 2 ppm praseodymium less than 2 ppm neodymium less than 1.5 ppm promethium less than 1 ppm samarium less than 1 ppm europium less than 1 ppm gadolinium less than 1 ppm terbium less than 1 ppm dysprosium less than 1 ppm holmium less than 1 ppm erbium less than 1 ppm thulium less than 1 ppm ytterbium less than 1 ppm lutetium less than 1 ppm hafnium less than 1 ppm tantalum less than 1 ppm tungsten less than 1.5 ppm rhenium less than 1 ppm osmium less than 1 ppm iridium less than 1 ppm platinum less than 1 ppm silver less than 1 ppm mercury less than 1 ppm thallium less than 1 ppm lead less than 1.5 ppm bismuth less than 2 ppm thorium or less than 4 ppm uranium.

In some specific embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 100 ppm sodium less than 300 ppm silicon less than 50 ppm sulfur less than 100 ppm calcium less than 20 ppm iron less than 10 ppm nickel less than 140 ppm copper less than 5 ppm chromium and less than 5 ppm zinc as measured by proton induced x ray emission. In other specific embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 50 ppm sodium less than 30 ppm sulfur less than 100 ppm silicon less than 50 ppm calcium less than 10 ppm iron less than 5 ppm nickel less than 20 ppm copper less than 2 ppm chromium and less than 2 ppm zinc.

In other specific embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 50 ppm sodium less than 50 ppm silicon less than 30 ppm sulfur less than 10 ppm calcium less than 2 ppm iron less than 1 ppm nickel less than 1 ppm copper less than 1 ppm chromium and less than 1 ppm zinc.

In some other specific embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises less than 100 ppm sodium less than 50 ppm magnesium less than 50 ppm aluminum less than 10 ppm sulfur less than 10 ppm chlorine less than 10 ppm potassium less than 1 ppm chromium and less than 1 ppm manganese.

The disclosed carbon materials comprise a high surface area. While not wishing to be bound by theory it is thought that such high surface area may contribute to the high energy density obtained from devices comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material. Accordingly in some embodiment the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a BET specific surface area of at least 1000 m g at least 1500 m g at least 2000 m g at least 2400 m g at least 2500 m g at least 2750 m g or at least 3000 m g. For example in some embodiments of the foregoing the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is activated.

In another embodiment the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material has a tap density between 0.2 and 0.6 g cc between 0.3 and 0.5 g cc or between 0.4 and 0.5 g cc. In another embodiment the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material has a total pore volume of at least 0.5 cm g at least 0.7 cm g at least 0.75 cm g at least 0.9 cm g at least 1.0 cm g at least 1.1 cm g at least 1.2 cm g at least 1.3 cm g at least 1.4 cm g at least 1.5 cm g or at least 1.6 cm g.

The pore size distribution of the disclosed carbon materials is one parameter that may have an effect on the electrochemical performance of the synthetic amorphous carbon materials. For example a carbon material comprising pores sized to accommodate specific electrolyte ions may be particularly useful in EDLC devices. In addition carbon materials comprising mesopores with a short effective length i.e. less than 10 nm less than 5 nm or less than 3 nm as measured by TEM may be useful to enhance ion transport and maximize power. Accordingly in one embodiment the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a fractional pore volume of pores at or below 100 nm that comprises at least 50 of the total pore volume at least 75 of the total pore volume at least 90 of the total pore volume or at least 99 of the total pore volume. In other embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a fractional pore volume of pores at or below 20 nm that comprises at least 50 of the total pore volume at least 75 of the total pore volume at least 90 of the total pore volume or at least 99 of the total pore volume.

In another embodiment the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a fractional pore surface area of pores at or below 100 nm that comprises at least 50 of the total pore surface area at least 75 of the total pore surface area at least 90 of the total pore surface area or at least 99 of the total pore surface area. In another embodiment the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a fractional pore surface area of pores at or below 20 nm that comprises at least 50 of the total pore surface area at least 75 of the total pore surface area at least 90 of the total pore surface area or at least 99 of the total pore surface area.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is prepared by a method disclosed herein for example in some embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is prepared by a method comprising pyrolyzing a dried ultrapure polymer gel as disclosed herein. In some embodiments the pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gel is further activated to obtain an ultrapure synthetic activated carbon material or an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material. Methods for preparation of the disclosed carbon materials are described in more detail below.

In one embodiment a method for preparing novel ultrapure polymer gels is provided. In another embodiment a method for preparing ultrapure synthetic carbon materials is provided for example in some embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material is an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material. Such ultrapure polymer gels and ultrapure synthetic carbon materials cannot be obtained by previously reported methods. In some further embodiments a method for preparing ultrapure synthetic activated carbon materials for example ultrapure synthetic amorphous activated carbon materials is provided. Details of the variable process parameters of the various embodiments of the disclosed methods are described below.

The ultrapure polymer gels may be prepared by a sol gel process. For example the ultrapure polymer gel may be prepared by co polymerizing one or more polymer precursers in an appropriate solvent. In one embodiment the one or more polymer precursers are co polymerized under acidic conditions. In some embodiments a first polymer precursor is a phenolic compound and a second polymer precursor is an aldehyde compound. In one embodiment of the method the phenolic compound is resorcinol catechol hydroquinone phloroglucinol phenol or a combination thereof and the aldehyde compound is formaldehyde acetaldehyde propionaldehyde butyraldehyde benzaldehyde cinnamaldehyde or a combination thereof. In a further embodiment the phenolic compound is resorcinol phenol or a combination thereof and the aldehyde compound is formaldehyde. In yet further embodiments the phenolic compound is resorcinol and the aldehyde compound is formaldehyde.

The sol gel polymerization process is generally performed under catalytic conditions. Accordingly in some embodiments preparing the ultrapure polymer gel comprises co polymerizing one or more polymer precursers in the presence of a catalyst. In some embodiments the catalyst comprises a basic volatile catalyst. For example in one embodiment the basic volatile catalyst comprises ammonium carbonate ammonium bicarbonate ammonium acetate ammonium hydroxide or combinations thereof. In a further embodiment the basic volatile catalyst is ammonium carbonate. In another further embodiment the basic volatile catalyst is ammonium acetate.

The molar ratio of catalyst to phenolic compound may have an effect on the final properties of the ultrapure polymer gel as well as the final properties of the ultrapure synthetic carbon materials for example ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials prepared therefrom. Thus in some embodiments such catalysts are used in the range of molar ratios of 10 1 to 2000 1 phenolic compound catalyst. In some embodiments such catalysts can be used in the range of molar ratios of 20 1 to 200 1 phenolic compound catalyst. For example in other embodiments such catalysts can be used in the range of molar ratios of 25 1 to 100 1 phenolic compound catalyst.

The reaction solvent is another process parameter that may be varied to obtain the desired properties of the ultrapure polymer gels and synthetic amorphous carbon materials. In some embodiments the solvent for preparation of the ultrapure polymer gel is a mixed solvent system of water and a miscible co solvent. For example in certain embodiments the solvent comprises a water miscible acid. Examples of water miscible acids include but are not limited to propionic acid acetic acid and formic acid. In further embodiments the solvent comprises a ratio of water miscible acid to water of 99 1 90 10 75 25 50 50 25 75 10 90 or 1 90. In other embodiments acidity is provided by adding a solid acid to the reaction solvent.

In some other embodiments of the foregoing the solvent for preparation of the ultrapure polymer gel is acidic. For example in certain embodiments the solvent comprises acetic acid. For example in one embodiment the solvent is 100 acetic acid. In other embodiments a mixed solvent system is provided wherein one of the solvents is acidic. For example in one embodiment of the method the solvent is a binary solvent comprising acetic acid and water. In further embodiments the solvent comprises a ratio of acetic acid to water of 99 1 90 10 75 25 50 50 25 75 10 90 or 1 90. In other embodiments acidity is provided by adding a solid acid to the reaction solvent.

Some embodiments of the disclosed method do not comprise a solvent exchange step e.g. exchange t butanol for water prior to lyophilization. For example in one embodiment of any of the methods described herein before freezing the ultrapure polymer gel or ultrapure polymer gel particles are rinsed with water. In one embodiment the average diameter of said ultrapure polymer gel particles prior to freezing is less than 25 mm for example between 0.001 mm and 25 mm alternately the average diameter of said ultrapure polymer gel particles prior to freezing is between 0.01 mm and 15 mm for example between 1.0 mm and 15 mm. In some examples the ultrapure polymer gel particles are between 1 mm and 10 mm. In further embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel particles are frozen via immersion in a medium having a temperature of below about 10 C. for example below about 20 C. or alternatively below about 30 C. For example the medium may be liquid nitrogen or ethanol or other organic solvent in dry ice or ethanol cooled by another means. In some embodiments drying under vacuum comprises subjecting the frozen particles to a vacuum pressure of below about 1400 mTorr.

Other methods of rapidly freezing the ultrapure polymer gel particles are also envisioned. In another embodiment the ultrapure polymer gel is rapidly frozen by co mingling or physical mixing of ultrapure polymer gel particles with a suitable cold solid for example dry ice solid carbon dioxide . Another method is to use a blast freezer with a metal plate at 60 C. to rapidly remove heat from the ultrapure polymer gel particles scattered over its surface. A third method of rapidly cooling water in a ultrapure polymer gel particle is to snap freeze the particle by pulling a high vacuum very rapidly the degree of vacuum is such that the temperature corresponding to the equilibrium vapor pressure allows for freezing . Yet another method for rapid freezing comprises admixing a ultrapure polymer gel with a suitably cold gas. In some embodiments the cold gas may have a temperature below about 10 C. In some embodiments the cold gas may have a temperature below about 20 C. In some embodiments the cold gas may have a temperature below about 30 C. In yet other embodiments the gas may have a temperature of about 196 C. For example in some embodiments the gas is nitrogen.

In other embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel particles are frozen on a lyophilizer shelf at a temperature of 20 C. or lower. For example in some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel particles are frozen on the lyophilizer shelf at a temperature of 30 C. or lower. In some other embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel monolith is subjected to a freeze thaw cycle from room temperature to 20 C. or lower and back to room temperature physical disruption of the freeze thawed gel to create particles and then further lyophilization processing. For example in some embodiments the ultrapure polymer gel monolith is subjected to a freeze thaw cycle from room temperature to 30 C. or lower and back to room temperature physical disruption of the freeze thawed gel to create particles and then further lyophilization processing.

In some embodiments of the methods described herein the molar ratio of phenolic precursor to catalyst is from about 10 1 to about 2000 1 or the molar ratio of phenolic precursor to catalyst is from about 20 1 to about 200 1. In further embodiments the molar ratio of phenolic precursor to catalyst is from about 25 1 to about 100 1. In further embodiments the molar ratio of phenolic precursor to catalyst is from about 25 1 to about 50 1. In further embodiments the molar ratio of phenolic precursor to catalyst is from about 100 1 to about 50 1.

In the specific embodiment wherein one of the polymer precursors is resorcinol and another polymer precursor is formaldehyde the resorcinol to catalyst ratio can be varied to obtain the desired properties of the resultant ultrapure polymer gel and synthetic amorphous carbon materials. In some embodiments of the methods described herein the molar ratio of resorcinol to catalyst is from about 10 1 to about 2000 1 or the molar ratio of resorcinol to catalyst is from about 20 1 to about 200 1. In further embodiments the molar ratio of resorcinol to catalyst is from about 25 1 to about 100 1. In further embodiments the molar ratio of resorcinol to catalyst is from about 25 1 to about 50 1. In further embodiments the molar ratio of resorcinol to catalyst is from about 100 1 to about 50 1.

Polymerization to form an ultrapure polymer gel can be accomplished by various means described in the art. For instance polymerization can be accomplished by incubating suitable polymer precursor materials in the presence of a suitable catalyst for a period of time. The time for polymerization can be a period ranging from minutes or hours to days depending on temperature the higher the temperature the faster the reaction rate and correspondingly the shorter the time required . The polymerization temperature can range from room temperature to a temperature approaching but lower than the boiling point of the starting solution. For example the temperature can range from about 20 C. to about 90 C. In the specific embodiment wherein one polymer precursor is resorcinol and one polymer precursor is formaldehyde the temperature can range from about 20 C. to about 100 C. typically from about 25 C. to about 90 C. In some embodiments polymerization can be accomplished by incubation of suitable synthetic polymer precursor materials in the presence of a catalyst for at least 24 hours at about 90 C. Generally polymerization can be accomplished in between about 6 and about 24 hours at about 90 C. for example between about 18 and about 24 hours at about 90 C.

The polymer precursor materials as disclosed herein include a alcohols phenolic compounds and other mono or polyhydroxy compounds and b aldehydes ketones and combinations thereof. Representative alcohols in this context include straight chain and branched saturated and unsaturated alcohols. Suitable phenolic compounds include polyhydroxy benzene such as a dihydroxy or trihydroxy benzene. Representative polyhydroxy benzenes include resorcinol i.e. 1 3 dihydroxy benzene catechol hydroquinone and phloroglucinol. Mixtures of two or more polyhydroxy benzenes can also be used. Phenol monohydroxy benzene can also be used. Representative polyhydroxy compounds include sugars such as glucose and other polyols such as mannitol. Aldehydes in this context include straight chain saturated aldehydes such as methanal formaldehyde ethanal acetaldehyde propanal propionaldehyde butanal butyraldehyde and the like straight chain unsaturated aldehydes such as ethenone and other ketenes 2 propenal acrylaldehyde 2 butenal crotonaldehyde 3 butenal and the like branched saturated and unsaturated aldehydes and aromatic type aldehydes such as benzaldehyde salicylaldehyde hydrocinnamaldehyde and the like. Suitable ketones include straight chain saturated ketones such as propanone and 2 butanone and the like straight chain unsaturated ketones such as propenone 2 butenone and 3 butenone methyl vinyl ketone and the like branched saturated and unsaturated ketones and aromatic type ketones such as methyl benzyl ketone phenylacetone ethyl benzyl ketone and the like. The ultrapure polymer precursor materials can also be combinations of the precursors described above.

In some embodiments one polymer precursor is an alcohol containing species and another polymer precursor is a carbonyl containing species. The relative amounts of alcohol containing species e.g. alcohols phenolic compounds and mono or poly hydroxy compounds or combinations thereof reacted with the carbonyl containing species e.g. aldehydes ketones or combinations thereof can vary substantially. In some embodiments the ratio of alcohol containing species to aldehyde species is selected so that the total moles of reactive alcohol groups in the alcohol containing species is approximately the same as the total moles of reactive carbonyl groups in the aldehyde species. Similarly the ratio of alcohol containing species to ketone species may be selected so that the total moles of reactive alcohol groups in the alcohol containing species is approximately the same as the total moles of reactive carbonyl groups in the ketone species. The same general 1 1 molar ratio holds true when the carbonyl containing species comprises a combination of an aldehyde species and a ketone species.

The total solids content in the aqueous solution prior to ultrapure polymer gel formation can be varied. The weight ratio of resorcinol to water is from about 0.05 to 1 to about 0.70 to 1. Alternatively the ratio of resorcinol to water is from about 0.15 to 1 to about 0.6 to 1. Alternatively the ratio of resorcinol to water is from about 0.15 to 1 to about 0.35 to 1. Alternatively the ratio of resorcinol to water is from about 0.25 to 1 to about 0.5 to 1. Alternatively the ratio of resorcinol to water is from about 0.3 to 1 to about 0.4 to 1.

Examples of solvents useful in the preparation of the ultrapure polymer gels disclosed herein include but are not limited to water or alcohol such as for example ethanol t butanol methanol or mixtures of these optionally further with water. Such solvents are useful for dissolution of the polymer precursor materials for example dissolution of the phenolic compound. In addition in some processes such solvents are employed for solvent exchange in the ultrapure polymer gel prior to freezing and drying wherein the solvent from the ultrapure polymerization of the precursors for example resorcinol and formaldehyde is exchanged for a pure alcohol. In one embodiment of the present application an ultrapure polymer gel is prepared by a process that does not include solvent exchange.

Suitable catalysts in the preparation of ultrapure polymer gels include volatile basic catalysts that facilitate polymerization of the precursor materials into a monolithic ultrapure polymer. The catalyst can also comprise various combinations of the catalysts described above. In embodiments comprising phenolic compounds such catalysts can be used in the range of molar ratios of 20 1 to 200 1 phenolic compound catalyst. For example in some specific embodiments such catalysts can be used in the range of molar ratios of 25 1 to 100 1 phenolic compound catalyst.

A monolithic ultrapure polymer gel can be physically disrupted to create smaller particles according to various techniques known in the art. The resultant ultrapure polymer gel particles generally have an average diameter of less than about 30 mm for example in the size range of about 1 mm to about 25 mm or between about 1 mm to about 5 mm or between about 0.5 mm to about 10 mm. Alternatively the size of the ultrapure polymer gel particles can be in the range below about 1 mm for example in the size range of about 10 to 1000 microns. Techniques for creating ultrapure polymer gel particles from monolithic material include manual or machine disruption methods such as sieving grinding milling or combinations thereof. Such methods are well known to those of skill in the art. Various types of mills can be employed in this context such as roller bead and ball mills and rotary crushers and similar particle creation equipment known in the art.

In a specific embodiment a roller mill is employed. A roller mill has three stages to gradually reduce the size of the gel particles. The ultrapure polymer gels are generally very brittle for a wet material and are not damp to the touch. Consequently they are easily milled using this approach however the width of each stage must be set appropriately to achieve the targeted final mesh. This adjustment is made and validated for each combination of gel recipe and mesh size. Each gel is milled via passage through a sieve of known mesh size. Sieved particles can be temporarily stored in sealed containers.

In one embodiment a rotary crusher is employed. The rotary crusher has a screen mesh size of about inch. In another embodiment the rotary crusher has a screen mesh size of about inch. In another embodiment the rotary crusher has a screen mesh size of about inch. In another embodiment the rotary crusher has a screen mesh size of about inch.

Milling can be accomplished at room temperature according to methods well known to those of skill in the art. Alternatively milling can be accomplished cryogenically for example by co milling the ultrapure polymer gel with solid carbon dioxide dry ice particles. In this embodiment the two steps of a creating particles from the monolithic ultrapure polymer gel and b rapid multidirectional freezing of the ultrapure polymer gel are accomplished in a single process.

After the ultrapure polymer gel particles are formed from the monolithic ultrapure polymer gel freezing of the ultrapure polymer gel particles is accomplished rapidly and in a multi directional fashion as described in more detail above. Freezing slowly and in a unidirectional fashion for example by shelf freezing in a lyophilizer results in dried material having a very low surface area as evidenced in an example herein. Similarly snap freezing i.e. freezing that is accomplished by rapidly cooling the ultrapure polymer gel particles by pulling a deep vacuum also results in a dried material having a low surface area. As disclosed herein rapid freezing in a multidirectional fashion can be accomplished by rapidly lowering the material temperature to at least about 10 C. or lower for example 20 C. or lower or for example to at least about 30 C. or lower. Rapid freezing of the ultrapure polymer gel particles creates a fine ice crystal structure within the particles due to widespread nucleation of ice crystals but leaves little time for ice crystal growth. This provides a high specific surface area between the ice crystals and the hydrocarbon matrix which is necessarily excluded from the ice matrix.

The concept of extremely rapid freezing to promote nucleation over crystal growth can be applied to mixed solvent systems. In one embodiment as the mixed solvent system is rapidly cooled the solvent component that predominates will undergo crystallization at its equilibrium melting temperature with increased concentration of the co solvent s and concomitant further freezing point depression. As the temperature is further lowered there is increased crystallization of the predominant solvent and concentration of co solvent s until the eutectic composition is reached at which point the eutectic composition undergoes the transition from liquid to solid without further component concentration nor product cooling until complete freezing is achieved. In the specific case of water and acetic acid which as pure substances exhibit freezing points of 0 C. and 17 C. respectively the eutectic composition is comprised of approximately 59 acetic acid and 41 water and freezes at about 27 C. Accordingly in one embodiment the mixed solvent system is the eutectic composition for example in one embodiment the mixed solvent system comprises 59 acetic acid and 41 water.

In one embodiment the frozen ultrapure polymer gel particles containing a fine ice matrix are lyophilized under conditions designed to avoid collapse of the material and to maintain fine surface structure and porosity in the dried product. Details of the conditions of the lyophilization are provided herein. Generally drying is accomplished under conditions where the temperature of the product is kept below a temperature that would otherwise result in collapse of the product pores thereby enabling the dried material to retain an extremely high surface area.

One benefit of having an extremely high surface area in the dried product is the improved utility of the ultrapure polymer gel for the purpose of fabrication of capacitors energy storage devices and other energy related applications. Different ultrapure polymer gel applications require variations in the pore size distribution such as different levels of micropore volume mesopore volume surface area and pore size. By tuning the various processing parameters of the ultrapure polymer gel high pore volumes can be reached at many different pore sizes depending on the desired application.

The structure of the final carbon material is reflected in the structure of the ultrapure dried polymer gel which in turn is established by the ultrapure polymer gel properties. These features can be created in the ultrapure polymer gel using a sol gel processing approach as described herein but if care is not taken in removal of the solvent then the structure is not preserved. It is of interest to both retain the original structure of the ultrapure polymer gel and modify its structure with ice crystal formation based on control of the freezing process. In some embodiments prior to drying the aqueous content of the ultrapure polymer gel is in the range of about 50 to about 99 . In certain embodiments upon drying the aqueous content of the ultrapure polymer cryogel is than about 10 alternately less than about 5 or less than about 2.5 .

Differential scanning calorimetry DSC data for an ultrapure polymer hydrogel demonstrates a large exothermic event at 18 C. These data are consistent with freezing of water inside a pore of 4 nm radius. These findings indicate that the extremely rapid freezing for the purposes of the current application not only constitutes a rapid freezing rate but also that the extent of the decrease is such that the material is brought below at least 18 C.

The DSC data also demonstrate that upon warming there is a broad complex endothermic behavior with the onset about 13 C. and a midpoint of about 10 C. There appears to be a thermal transition at about 2 C. and final melting at about 1 C. The various events may correspond to melting of different types of microstructures. The data suggest that in order to avoid loss of fine product structure in the frozen state product temperature during initial e.g. primary drying should be maintained below 13 C. This is accomplished for example in a drying step where heat transfer during primary drying is dominated by convection rather than conduction thus the product temperature during sublimation will correspond to the temperature of ice at equilibrium with the chamber pressure.

A lyophilizer chamber pressure of about 2250 microns results in a primary drying temperature in the drying product of about 10 C. Drying at about 2250 micron chamber pressure or lower case provides a product temperature during primary drying that is no greater than about 10 C. As a further illustration a chamber pressure of about 1500 microns results in a primary drying temperature in the drying product of about 15 C. Drying at about 1500 micron chamber pressure or lower provides a product temperature during primary drying that is no greater than about 15 C. As yet a further illustration a chamber pressure of about 750 microns results in a primary drying temperature in the drying product of about 20 C. Drying at 750 micron chamber pressure or lower provides a product temperature during primary drying that is no greater than about 20 C. As yet a further illustration a chamber pressure of about 300 microns results in a primary drying temperature in the drying product of about 30 C. Drying at 300 micron chamber pressure or lower provides a product temperature during primary drying that is no greater than about 30 C.

In another embodiment a method for making an ultrapure synthetic activated carbon material for example an ultrapure synthetic activated amorphous carbon material is provided comprising pyrolysis and activation of a dried polymer gel disclosed herein. In some embodiments of the present disclosure an ultrapure synthetic activated carbon material or ultrapure synthetic activated amorphous carbon material having a specific surface area of at least 1000 m g at least 1500 m g at least 2000 m g at least 2400 m g at least 2500 m g or at least 3000 m g is provided.

Generally in the pyrolysis process dried ultrapure polymer gels are weighed and placed in a rotary kiln. The temperature ramp is set at 5 C. per minute the dwell time and dwell temperature are set cool down is determined by the natural cooling rate of the furnace. The entire process is usually run under an inert atmosphere such as a nitrogen environment. Pyrolyzed samples are then removed and weighed. Other pyrolysis processes are well known to those of skill in the art.

In some embodiments pyrolysis dwell time the period of time during which the sample is at the desired temperature is from about 0 minutes to about 120 minutes from about 0 minutes to about 60 minutes from about 0 minutes to about 30 minutes from about 0 minutes to about 10 minutes from about 0 to 5 minutes or from about 0 to 1 minute.

Pyrolysis may also be carried out more slowly than described above. For example in one embodiment the pyrolysis is carried out in about 120 to 480 minutes. In other embodiments the pyrolysis is carried out in about 120 to 240 minutes.

In some embodiments pyrolysis dwell temperature ranges from about 650 C. to 1800 C. In other embodiments pyrolysis dwell temperature ranges from about 700 C. to about 1200 C. In other embodiments pyrolysis dwell temperature ranges from about 850 C. to about 1050 C. In other embodiments pyrolysis dwell temperature ranges from about 800 C. to about 900 C.

In some embodiments the pyrolysis dwell temperature is varied during the course of pyrolysis. In one embodiment the pyrolysis is carried out in a rotary kiln with separate distinct heating zones the temperature for each zone is sequentially decreased from the entrance to the exit end of the rotary kiln tube. In one embodiment the pyrolysis is carried out in a rotary kiln with separate distinct heating zones the temperature for each zone is sequentially increased from entrance to exit end of the rotary kiln tube. In one embodiment the entrance end of the heating zone is set at 690 C. the middle of the heating zone is set at 750 C. and the exit end of the heating zone is set at 850 C.

Activation time and activation temperature both have a large impact on the performance of the resulting activated carbon material as well as the manufacturing cost thereof. Increasing the activation temperature and the activation dwell time results in higher activation percentages which generally correspond to the removal of more material compared to lower temperatures and shorter dwell times. Activation temperature can also alter the pore structure of the carbon where lower temperatures result in more microporous carbon and higher temperatures result in mesoporosity. This is a result of the activation gas diffusion limited reaction that occurs at higher temperatures and reaction kinetic driven reactions that occur at lower temperature. Higher activation percentage often increases performance of the final activated carbon but it also increases cost by reducing overall yield. Improving the level of activation corresponds to achieving a higher performance product at a lower cost.

Pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gels may be activated by contacting the pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gel with an activating agent. Many gases are suitable for activating for example gases which contain oxygen. Non limiting examples of activating gases include carbon dioxide carbon monoxide steam and oxygen. Activating agents may also include corrosive chemicals such as acids bases or salts e.g. phosphoric acid potassium hydroxide sodium hydroxide zinc chloride etc. . Other activating agents are known to those skilled in the art.

In some embodiments the activation time is between 1 minute and 48 hours. In other embodiments the activation time is between 1 minute and 24 hours. In other embodiments the activation time is between 5 minutes and 24 hours. In other embodiments the activation time is between 1 hour and 24 hours. In further embodiments the activation time is between 12 hours and 24 hours. In certain other embodiments the activation time is between 30 min and 4 hours. In some further embodiments the activation time is between 1 hour and 2 hours.

Generally in the activation process samples are weighed and placed in a rotary kiln for which the automated gas control manifold is set to ramp at a 20 C. per minute rate. Carbon dioxide is introduced to the kiln environment for a period of time once the proper activation temperature has been reached. After activation has occurred the carbon dioxide is replaced by nitrogen and the kiln is cooled down. Samples are weighed at the end of the process to assess the level of activation. Other activation processes are well known to those of skill in the art. In some of the embodiments disclosed herein activation temperatures may range from 800 C. to 1300 C. In another embodiment activation temperatures may range from 800 C. to 1050 C. In another embodiment activation temperatures may range from about 850 C. to about 950 C. One skilled in the art will recognize that other activation temperatures either lower or higher may be employed.

The degree of activation is measured in terms of the mass percent of the pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gel that is lost during the activation step. In one embodiment of the methods described herein activating comprises a degree of activation from 5 to 90 or a degree of activation from 10 to 80 in some cases activating comprises a degree of activation from 40 to 70 or a degree of activation from 45 to 65 .

In the methods disclosed herein for the production of high surface area ultrapure synthetic activated carbon materials the ultrapure polymer gel is engineered to produce a material which is already highly porous and contains within its ultrapure polymer framework a carbonic structure which when pyrolyzed and activated will produce an activated carbon material that contains a targeted mix of mesopores and micropores. By producing ultrapure polymer gel with the appropriate targeted mix of meso and micro pores the amount of required activation is reduced thereby improving yield and reducing cost. Also the ability to tune the properties e.g. pore size of the intermediates introduces a degree of tunability that has not been realized by a more traditional approach of pyrolyzing and over activating existing carbon material. For example manipulating the processing variables of the intermediates as described herein has a more important impact on the final carbon nanostructure than the traditional methods of adjusting pyrolysis and activation variables.

The ability to scale up a manufacturing approach as disclosed herein to meet the high demand expected for the activated carbon materials disclosed herein has been demonstrated. Three parts of the process can be identified 1 ultrapure polymerization from precursor ultrapure polymer materials 2 freeze drying and 3 pyrolysis activation. In one embodiment each of these steps may be scaled employing standard manufacturing equipment of three existing industries for example specialty chemical companies working with adhesives and epoxies pharmaceutical and food related freeze drying providers and manufactures of low grade activated carbon respectively.

It has been shown that the amount of catalyst and percentage of water in the initial sol has a significant impact on the final performance of the activated carbon material e.g. when used in a supercapacitor . The large number of process variables and the interaction between these variables enables continuous refinement of the process and allows for some control over the final carbon structure. Accordingly in one embodiment the present disclosure provides refinement of the process variables. The disclosed refinements result in an ability to exert control over the final carbon structure in a manner that was previously unobtainable.

The most common approach to refining process variables used in the art is to hold all but one variable constant and determine the effect of varying that one parameter. Alternately and as described herein the combination of statistical analysis methods DFE Pro Software and a factorial design of experiments approach were used to systematically vary multiple parameters simultaneously to obtain an optimized process for preparing activated carbon material. By using this approach the impact of each of these variables on a range of different metrics e.g. surface area density pore volume etc. related to the activated carbon material s structure are evaluated. When the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon material is employed in a supercapacitor additional performance metrics may be evaluated. For example capacitance density and power density may be evaluated.

The structural properties of the final ultrapure synthetic activated carbon material ultrapure synthetic activated amorphous carbon material dried polymer gels and the pyrolyzed but unactivated ultrapure polymer gels may be measured using Nitrogen sorption at 17K a method known to those of skill in the art. The final performance and characteristics of the finished ultrapure synthetic activated carbon material is important but the intermediate products both dried ultrapure polymer gel and pyrolyzed but not activated ultrapure polymer gel can also be evaluated particularly from a quality control standpoint as known to those of skill in the art. The Micromeretics ASAP 2020 is used to perform detailed micropore and mesopore analysis which reveals the pore size distribution from 0.35 nm to 50 nm. The system produces a nitrogen isotherm starting at a pressure of 10atm which enables high resolution pore size distributions in the sub 1 nm range. The software generated reports utilize a Density Functional Theory DFT method to calculate properties such as pore size distributions surface area distributions total surface area total pore volume and pore volume within certain pore size ranges.

In some embodiments the pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gels have a surface area from about 100 to about 1200 m g. In other embodiments the pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gels have a surface area from about 500 to about 800 m g. In other embodiments the pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gels have a surface area from about 500 to about 600 m g.

In some embodiments the pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gels have a tap density from about 0.1 to about 1.0 cc g. In other embodiments the pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gels have a tap density from about 0.3 to about 0.6 cc g. In other embodiments the pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gels have a tap density from about 0.35 to about 0.45 cc g.

The disclosed ultrapure carbon materials synthesized from synthetic well characterized precursors are different from activated carbon from natural sources such as coal pitch coconuts etc. This is due in part to the fact that they can be tuned in both micropore and mesopore structure and chemistry by carefully predesigned and executed processing controls. Additionally an ultrapure carbon material as described herein can contain a porous structure which can be optimized for a given application e.g. when used in a supercapacitor or other energy storage device . With the ability to tune the carbon nanostructure performance exceeding current performance data from traditional activated carbons is attained. Important variables include large accessible surface area short micropores for electrolytic salt diffusion and minimization of wasted pore volume to enhance specific capacitance.

Manipulation of the process variables allows production of ultrapure synthetic activated carbon materials that have properties which suit the desired application. Accordingly in one embodiment a method of optimizing the process variables for production of ultrapure polymer gels dried ultrapure polymer gels pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gels and ultrapure synthetic activated carbon materials is provided. One approach for optimization of process parameters comprises a design of experiments strategy. Using this strategy the influence of multiple process variables e.g. up to 8 variables can be studied with relatively few experiments. The data obtained from the design of experiments can be used to manipulate process variables to obtain specific properties in the ultrapure polymer gels dried ultrapure polymer gels pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer gels and activated ultrapure polymer cryogels. For example in some embodiments the process parameters which are manipulated to obtain the desired product characteristics are selected from Resorcinol Catalyst Ratio Resorcinol Water Ratio Particle Size at Freezing Step Quench Temperature Pyrolysis Time Pyrolysis Temperature Activation Temperature and Activation Time and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a set of electrochemical test cells are utilized with a tetramethylammonium TMA cation. Whereas the tetraethylammonium TEA ion is 0.69 nm in diameter the tetramethylammonium ion is only 0.57 nm in diameter. Each cation is paired with a tetrafluorborate TFB anion which is 0.46 nm in diameter. The sizes of these various ions shed some light on the pore size ranges described above. As long as micropores are short and not tortuous they admit ions smaller than the pore diameter. One way that capacitance and energy density are increased is by allowing ions into as many pores as possible in the carbon network. For example pores smaller than 0.5 nm admit the TFB anion but neither of the TEA or TMA cations. Pores between 0.5 nm and 0.65 nm admit TMA cations but not TEA and pores larger than 0.65 nm will admit TEA ions. This concept summarizes the ion sieving theory where the carbon material is considered a sieve that will only allow ions smaller than the pore size. Evaluation of the difference in capacitance and consequently energy density developed on the anodes and cathodes of cells containing TMATFB vs. TEATFB electrolytes provides insight into the importance of pores volume within certain pore size range.

Manipulation of the process variables allows production of ultrapure synthetic activated carbons that have a pore size distribution that suits the chosen electrolyte system. For example a carbon anode may be produced that has a micropore peak at around 0.8 nm which is centered on a pore size that fits a TEA ion. Based on the output of the DFE Pro Software process settings are selected based on those variables that are the most statistically significant for pores having pore volume and surface area between 0.7 1.0 nm set as the primary performance metrics. Interaction of variables and multi variable contour maps are used to extrapolate process settings that lie either in between the settings used above or outside the range specified above. After determining the targeted process variables for meeting the pore size requirement of this task batch of ultrapure synthetic activated carbon such as activated carbon cryogels are produced based using these settings. The anode material is then characterized using the ASAP 2020 and Density Functional Theory for pore size distribution analysis to confirm the existence of a high volume and surface area peak within the prescribed range of 0.7 1.0 nm.

Analogously a different pore size range 0.6 0.8 nm is used as the target for tuning the pore size for TMA cations while still using the same approach described herein. Still further the approach can be used to produce carbons that have a pore size distribution less than 0.6 nm that corresponds to TFB anions.

Varying the capacitance developed per gram of carbon in the anode and cathode enables production of a charge balanced cell with a matched capacity for anions and cations. This approach improves the energy density of the overall cell while reducing cost associated with creating pores that are not right sized for the ions of the electrolyte.

In addition according to the methods disclosed herein carbons can be mass produced with a targeted pore size distribution for any number of electrolyte ions. The ranges of pore sizes described herein were chosen for the particular systems studied however other ranges can be produced according to the methods disclosed herein. For example data can be extracted from the ASAP 2020 software generated reports and the DFE Pro Design of experiments can be altered to display the proper tuning parameters for pores of any size. While particular parameters may not have been disclosed herein the factorial design of experiments approach enables one of skill in the art to make adjustments to generate the targeted peak pore size.

Analysis of these results provides a number of different insights. Studying the ability of an anode or cathode with a known micropore size peak to develop maximum capacitance using a salt ion of known dimensions provides information on the effective size of the ions in play and what pore size sieves out which ions. Use of the pore volume data as well as the capacitance data of the systems disclosed herein provides identification of the minimum pore size needed to develop capacitance with a larger tetraethylammonium cation vs. the smaller tetramethylammonium cation or a tetrafluoroborate anion. One targeted carbon material for use as an electrode is a system where the micropore peak is just above the threshold when pores are too small to allow an ion to electrosorb to the surface of the pore wall while at the same time minimizing pore volume in other ranges.

The factorial design of experiments approach when used with pore volume in a specific range as a performance metric indicates how to adjust the process parameters to maximize pore volume in that pore size range.

When electrolyte ions are free in an unconstrained solvent in the absence of electric field they are typically surrounded by solvent ions which serve to balance their charge. It is expected that this still takes place to some degree despite the strong electric field and the cramped space inside the pores. Each ion has a different propensity towards keeping itself solvated and hence has a different effective size larger for strong solvation and smaller for weak solvation. The ion sieving study described above evaluates the degree to which these salts remain solvated and hence what size pores are appropriate.

As mentioned above one way to maximize the energy density of a nanostructured carbon electrode is to produce pores of the right size for the ions electrosorbed to the surface of that electrode. An activated carbon with a pore size distribution that is ideal for the anion and another that is ideal for the cation are assembled in an asymmetric cell capable of exceeding the capacitance and energy density of symmetric cells used elsewhere.

The ultrapure synthetic carbon materials for example ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials can be used in devices requiring stable high surface area micro and mesoporous structure. Examples of applications for the disclosed carbon materials include but are not limited to energy storage and distribution devices ultracapacitor electrodes pseudocapacitor electrodes battery electrodes lead acid battery electrodes gas diffusion electrodes including lithium air electrodes and zinc air electrodes lithium ion batteries and capacitors for example as cathode material conducting current collectors scaffolds for other active materials in electrochemical systems nanostructured material support scaffolds solid state gas storage e.g. Hand CHstorage capacitive deionization of salt water biomedical applications including poison control and controlled drug release air filtration water filtration chemical filtration catalytic converters thermal insulation chromatographic packing adsorbants and as a carbon based scaffold support structure for other catalytic functions such as hydrogen storage or fuel cell electrodes.

The disclosed carbon materials may also be employed in kinetic energy harvesting applications such as hybrid electric vehicles heavy hybrids all electric drive vehicles cranes forklifts elevators electric rail hybrid locomotives and electric bicycles. The ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials may also be employed in electrical back up applications such as UPS data center bridge power voltage dip compensation electric brake actuators electric door actuators electronics telecom tower bridge power. Applications requiring pulse power in which the ultrapure synthetic activated carbons of this disclosure may be useful include but are not limited to boardnet stabilization electronics including cell phones PDAs camera flashes electronic toys wind turbine blade pitch actuators power quality power conditioning frequency regulation electric supercharger. Yet other uses of the ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials includes use in automotive starting and stopping systems power tools flashlights personal electronics self contained solar powered lighting systems RFID chips and systems windfield developers for survey device power sensors pulse laser systems and phasers.

The disclosed carbon materials may also be used in applications where high purity is critical for example applications in the medical electronic chemical analysis mems micromachines and biological fields. Chemical and electrochemical sensors or detectors of all kinds would experience less interference from impurities or experience fewer side reactions caused or catalyzed by impurities. Examples are impurities in air explosives hazardous chemicals synthetic noses or impurities in water such as organics or water impurities in organic liquids.

The acid base nature of carbon is largely a function of impurities including chemisorbed oxygen. Thus the ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials are useful in applications where controlling the acid base nature of the carbon material is desired.

Carbon is used as a reactant in the chemical production of materials and as an electrode in the electrochemical production of materials. Thus the disclosed carbon materials find utility in the chemical and electrochemical production of high purity materials especially metals. The disclosed carbon material may also be employed as an electrode in zinc manganese oxide batteries common flashlight batteries and zinc halogen batteries and incorporated into carbon ultrapure polymer composites for use as electrically conductive adhesives and seals and for minimizing radiation leakage.

The dried ultrapure polymer gels disclosed herein find utility in any number of applications. For example the dried ultrapure polymer gels are useful as wood adhesives e.g. for plywood or particle board bonding textiles and metals to rubber e.g. rubber tires filtration media dielectric insulation thermal insulation and as a resin in composite materials e.g. fiber glass and carbon fiber etc. 

EDLCs use electrodes immersed in an electrolyte solution as their energy storage element. Typically a porous separator immersed in and impregnated with the electrolyte ensures that the electrodes do not come in contact with each other preventing electronic current flow directly between the electrodes. At the same time the porous separator allows ionic currents to flow through the electrolyte between the electrodes in both directions thus forming double layers of charges at the interfaces between the electrodes and the electrolyte.

When electric potential is applied between a pair of electrodes of an EDLC ions that exist within the electrolyte are attracted to the surfaces of the oppositely charged electrodes and migrate towards the electrodes. A layer of oppositely charged ions is thus created and maintained near each electrode surface. Electrical energy is stored in the charge separation layers between these ionic layers and the charge layers of the corresponding electrode surfaces. In fact the charge separation layers behave essentially as electrostatic capacitors. Electrostatic energy can also be stored in the EDLCS through orientation and alignment of molecules of the electrolytic solution under influence of the electric field induced by the potential. This mode of energy storage however is secondary.

EDLCS comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material for example ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material can be employed in various electronic devices where high power is desired. Accordingly in one embodiment an electrode comprising ultrapure synthetic carbon materials is provided. In another embodiment an electrode comprising ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials is provided. In a further embodiment the electrode comprises ultrapure synthetic activated carbon material for example ultrapure synthetic activated amorphous carbon material. In a further embodiment an ultracapacitor comprising an electrode comprising ultrapure synthetic carbon materials is provided. In a further embodiment of the foregoing the ultrapure synthetic carbon material is an ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material for example an ultrapure synthetic activated amorphous carbon material.

The disclosed carbon materials find utility in any number of electronic devices for example wireless consumer and commercial devices such as digital still cameras notebook PCs medical devices location tracking devices automotive devices compact flash devices mobiles phones PCMCIA cards handheld devices and digital music players. Ultracapacitors are also employed in heavy equipment such as excavators and other earth moving equipment forklifts garbage trucks cranes for ports and construction and transportation systems such as buses automobiles and trains.

In one embodiment an ultracapacitor device comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a gravimetric power of at least 10 W g at least 15 W g at least 20 W g at least 25 W g at least 30 W g or at least 35 W g. In another embodiment an ultracapacitor device comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a volumetric power of at least 5 W cc at least 10 W cc at least 15 W cc or at least 20 W cc. In another embodiment an ultracapacitor device comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a gravimetric energy of at least 2.5 Wh kg at least 5.0 Wh kg at least 7.5 Wh kg at least 10 Wh kg at least 12.5 Wh kg at least 15.0 Wh kg at least 17.5. Wh kg at least 20.0 Wh kg at least 22.5 wh kg or at least 25.0 Wh kg. In another embodiment an ultracapacitor device comprising the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon comprises a volumetric energy of at least 1.5 Wh liter at least 3.0 Wh liter at least 5.0 Wh liter at least 7.5 Wh liter at least 10.0 Wh liter at least 12.5 Wh liter at least 15 Wh liter at least 17.5 Wh liter or at least 20.0 Wh liter.

In some embodiments of the foregoing the gravimetric power volumetric power gravimetric energy and volumetric energy of an ultracapacitor device comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material are measured by constant current discharge from 2.7 V to 1.89 V employing a 1.0 M solution of tetraethylammonium tetrafluoroborate in acetonitrile 1.0 M TEATFB in AN electrolyte and a 0.5 second time constant.

In one embodiment an ultracapacitor device comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a gravimetric power of at least 25 W g a volumetric power of at least 10.0 W cc a gravimetric energy of at least 5.0 Wh kg and a volumetric energy of at least 3.0 Wh L.

In another embodiment an ultracapacitor device comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a gravimetric power of at least 15 W g a volumetric power of at least 10.0 W cc a gravimetric energy of at least 20.0 Wh kg and a volumetric energy of at least 12.5 Wh L.

In one embodiment an ultracapacitor device comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a gravimetric capacitance of at least 15 F g at least 20 F g at least 25 F g at least 30 F g or at least 35 F g. In another embodiment an ultracapacitor device comprising the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material comprises a volumetric capacitance of at least 10 F cc at least 15 F cc at least 18 F cc at least 20 F cc at least 22 F cc or at least 25 F cc. In some embodiments of the foregoing the gravimetric capacitance and volumetric capacitance are measured by constant current discharge from 2.7 V to 0.1 V with a 5 second time constant and employing a 1.8 M solution of tetraethylammonium tetrafluroroborate in acetonitrile 1.8 M TEATFB in AN electrolyte and a current density of 0.5 A g 1.0 A g 4.0 A g or 8.0 A g.

In one embodiment the present disclosure provides ultracapacitors comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material as disclosed herein wherein the percent decrease in original capacitance i.e. capacitance before being subjected to voltage hold of the ultracapacitor comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material after a voltage hold period is less than the percent decrease in original capacitance of an ultracapacitor comprising known carbon materials. In one embodiment the percent of original capacitance remaining for an ultracapacitor comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material after a voltage hold at 2.7 V for 24 hours at 65 C. is at least 90 at least 80 at least 70 at least 60 at least 50 at least 40 at least 30 at least 20 or at least 10 . In further embodiments of the foregoing the percent of original capacitance remaining after the voltage hold period is measured at a current density of 0.5 A g 1 A g 4 A g or 8 A g.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides ultracapacitors comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material as disclosed herein wherein the percent decrease in original capacitance of the ultracapacitor comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material after repeated voltage cycling is less than the percent decrease in original capacitance of an ultracapacitor comprising known carbon materials subjected to the same conditions. For example in one embodiment the percent of original capacitance remaining for an ultracapacitor comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material is more than the percent of original capacitance remaining for an ultracapacitor comprising known carbon materials after 1000 2000 4000 6000 8000 or 1000 voltage cycling events comprising cycling between 2 V and 1V at a current density of 4 A g. In another embodiment the percent of original capacitance remaining for an ultracapacitor comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material after 1000 2000 4000 6000 8000 or 1000 voltage cycling events comprising cycling between 2 V and 1V at a current density of 4 A g is at least 90 at least 80 at least 70 at least 60 at least 50 at least 40 at least 30 at least 20 or at least 10 .

As noted above the ultrapure synthetic carbon material and ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material can be incorporated into ultracapacitor devices. In some embodiments the ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material are milled to an average particle size of about 10 microns using a Labomill jetmill operating in a nitrogen atmosphere. While not wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that this fine particle size enhances particle to particle conductivity as well as enabling the production of very thin sheet electrodes. The jetmill essentially grinds the carbon against itself by spinning it inside a disc shaped chamber propelled by high pressure nitrogen. As the larger particles are fed in the centrifugal force pushes them to the outside of the chamber as they grind against each other the particles migrate towards the center where they eventually exit the grinding chamber once they have reached the appropriate dimensions.

In further embodiments after jet milling the carbon is blended with a fibrous Teflon binder 3 by weight to hold the particles together in a sheet. The carbon Teflon mixture is kneaded until a uniform consistency is reached. Then the mixture is rolled into sheets using a high pressure roller former that results in a final thickness of 50 microns. These electrodes are punched into discs and heated to 195 C. under a dry argon atmosphere to remove water and or other airbourne contaminants. The electrodes are weighed and their dimensions measured using calipers.

The carbon electrodes of the EDLCs are wetted with an appropriate electrolyte solution. Examples of solvents for use in electrolyte solutions for use in the devices of the present application include but are not limited to propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate butylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate methyl ethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate sulfolane methylsulfolane and acetonitrile. Such solvents are generally mixed with solute including tetralkylammonium salts such as TEATFB tetraethylammonium tetrafluoroborate TEMATFB tri ethyl methylammonium tetrafluoroborate EMITFB 1 ethyl 3 methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate tetramethylammonium or triethylammonium based salts. Further the electrolyte can be a water based acid or base electrolyte such as mild sulfuric acid or potassium hydroxide.

In some embodiments the electrodes are wetted with a 1.0 M solution of tetraethylammonium tetrafluroroborate in acetonitrile 1.0 M TEATFB in AN electrolyte. In other embodiments the electrodes are wetted with a 1.0 M solution of tetraethylammonium tetrafluroroborate in propylene carbonate 1.0 M TEATFB in PC electrolyte. These are common electrolytes used in both research and industry and are considered standards for assessing device performance. In other embodiments the symmetric carbon carbon C C capacitors are assembled under an inert atmosphere for example in an Argon glove box and a NKK porous membrane 30 micron thick serves as the separator. Once assembled the samples may be soaked in the electrolyte for 20 minutes or more depending on the porosity of the sample.

In some embodiments the capacitance and power output are measured using cyclic voltammetry CV chronopotentiometry CP and impedance spectroscopy at various voltages ranging from 1.0 2.5 V maximum voltage and current levels from 1 10 mA on an Biologic VMP3 electrochemical workstation. In this embodiment the capacitance may be calculated from the discharge curve of the potentiogram using the formula 

The disclosed carbon materials also find utility as electrodes in a nuy number of types of batteries. One such battery is the metal air battery for example lithium air batteries. Lithium air batteries generally comprise an electrolyte interposed between positive electrode and negative electrodes. The positive electrode generally comprises a lithium compound such as lithium oxide or lithium peroxide and serves to oxidize or reduce oxygen. The negative electrode generally comprises a carbonaceous substance which absorbs and releases lithium ions. As with supercapacitors batteries such as lithium air batteries which comprise higher purity carbon materials are expected to be superior to batteries comprising known carbon materials. Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention provides a metal air battery for example a lithium air battery comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material as disclosed herein.

Any number of other batteries for example zinc carbon batteries lithium carbon batteries lead acid batteries and the like are also expected to perform better with higher purity carbon materials. One skilled in the art will recognize other specific types of carbon containing batteries which will benefit from higher purity carbon. Accordingly in another embodiment the present invention provides a battery in particular a zinc carbon a lithium carbon batteries or a lead acid battery comprising an ultrapure synthetic carbon material or ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon material as disclosed herein.

The ultrapure polymer gels cryogels pyrolyzed cryogels and ultrapure synthetic amorphous carbon materials disclosed in the following Examples were prepared according to the methods disclosed herein. Chemicals were obtained from commercial sources at reagent grade purity or better and were used as received from the supplier without further purification.

Unless indicated otherwise the following conditions were generally employed. Phenolic compound and aldehyde were reacted in the presence of a catalyst in a binary solvent system. The molar ratio of phenolic compound to aldehyde was typically 0.5 to 1. The reaction was allowed to incubate in a sealed glass ampoule at 90 C. for at least 24 hours or until gelation was complete. The resulting ultrapure polymer hydrogel contained water but no organic solvent and was not subjected to solvent exchange of water for an organic solvent such as t butanol. The ultrapure polymer hydrogel monolith was then physically disrupted for example by milling to form ultrapure polymer hydrogel particles having an average diameter of less than about 30 mm. Unless stated otherwise the particles were then rapidly frozen generally by immersion in a cold fluid e.g. liquid nitrogen or ethanol dry ice and lyophilized. Generally the lyophilizer shelf was pre cooled to 50 C. before loading a tray containing the frozen ultrapure polymer hydrogel particles on the lyophilizer shelf. The chamber pressure for lyophilization was typically in the range of 50 to 1000 mTorr and the shelf temperature was in the range of 10 to 25 C. Alternatively the shelf temperature can be set lower for example in the range of 0 to 10 C. Alternatively the shelf temperature can be set higher for example in the range of 25 to 40 C.

The dried ultrapure polymer hydrogel was typically pyrolyzed by heating in a nitrogen atmosphere at temperatures ranging from 800 1200 C. for a period of time as specified in the examples. Activation conditions generally comprised heating a pyrolyzed ultrapure polymer hydrogel in a COatmosphere at temperatures ranging from 900 1000 C. for a period of time as specified in the examples. Specific pyrolysis and activation conditions were as described in the following examples.

A series of RF gels were made form neat acetic acid i.e. anhydrous . Three samples were produced with varying levels of ammonium carbonate as catalyst none and 100 and 25 R C. These samples were crushed by hand to create particles frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen and lyophilized. A summary of these formulations and their specific surface areas is presented in Table 1. All three samples were monolithic and orange in color. Color intensity was greater for those samples containing ammonium carbonate. The specific surface area of the three samples were between 597 and 644 m g.

In order to examine the effect of addition of a small amount of water in the system a series of RF gels were produced from a mixed solvent of acetic acid water in a 90 10 vol vol ratio prior to addition of formaldehyde . Three samples were produced with varying levels of ammonium carbonate none and 100 and 25 R C. These samples were crushed by hand to create particles frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen and lyophilized.

A summary of these formulations and their specific surface areas are presented in Table 2. All three samples were monolithic and orange in color. Color intensity was greater for those samples containing ammonium carbonate. The specific surface area of the three samples was between 586 and 653 m2 g.

To further examine the effect of addition of water a series of RF gels were produced from 50 50 acetic acid water prior to addition of formaldehyde . Three samples were produced with varying levels of ammonium carbonate none and 100 and 25 R C. A fourth sample was made with the addition of ammonium acetate at a ratio of 25 R C. These samples were crushed by hand to create particles frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen and lyophilized.

A summary of these formulations and their specific surface areas are presented in Table 3. All four samples were monolithic and orange in color. Color intensity was greater for those samples containing ammonium carbonate or ammonium acetate. The specific surface area of the four samples was between 560 and 693 m g.

The next system was comprised predominantly of water specifically 25 75 acetic acid water prior to addition of formaldehyde . Three samples were produced with varying levels of ammonium carbonate none and 100 and 25 R C. A fourth sample was made with the addition of ammonium acetate at a ratio of 25 R C. These samples were crushed by hand to create particles frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen and lyophilized.

A summary of these formulations and their specific surface areas are presented in Table 4. Additional samples that were produced with ammonium acetate at lower R C ratios of 10 1 and 1 1 are also included in the table. Sample prepared in absence of catalyst was light orange in color and after drying the cryogel had a specific surface area of about 340 m g. Those samples containing ammonium carbonate or ammonium acetate were darker in color in particular for the 100 R C samples and also appeared less cloudy in nature. However sample produced at the highest level of ammonium acetate i.e. R C 1 1 was very clay like and wet in consistency and exhibited an extremely low surface area. Compared to the cryogel in this series devoid of catalyst those containing either sodium carbonate or sodium acetate at R C of 25 1 to 100 1 had a much higher specific surface area of over 700 m g. Samples prepared with ammonium acetate at R C of 10 and 1 produced a lower surface area of about 427 m g and 3.4 m g respectively.

An analogous series of samples was prepared at 10 90 acetic acid water prior to addition of formaldehyde . Three samples were produced with varying levels of ammonium carbonate none and 100 and 25 R C. A fourth sample was made with the addition of ammonium acetate at a ratio of 25 R C. These samples were crushed by hand to create particles frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen and lyophilized.

A summary of these formulations and their specific surface areas is presented in Table 5. The sample prepared in this series without catalyst was visually somewhat monolithic but very clay like and wet in consistency and very light orange color. Upon drying the material exhibited an extremely low surface area of 

Yet another lower ratio of acetic acid to water was studied namely 1 99 prior to addition of formaldehyde . Three samples were produced with varying levels of ammonium carbonate none and 100 and 25 R C. A fourth sample was made with the addition of ammonium acetate at a ratio of 25 R C. These samples were crushed by hand to create particles frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen and lyophilized.

A summary of these formulations and their specific surface areas is presented in Table 6. All samples were clay like and wet in consistency. The sample prepared without catalyst exhibited an extremely low surface area of 1.5 m g. Compared to samples produced at higher amounts of acetic acid samples in this series were generally light orange in color and cloudy in nature. Samples where an ammonium salt was added exhibited moderately high specific surface area in the range of 140 to 278 m g but generally lower than values obtained for samples prepared at higher acetic acid content.

A plot of specific surface area vs. pH for all samples is presented in . As can be seen there was a general trend towards higher specific surface area as pH decreases. However notable exceptions are the samples 003 116 3 and 003 119 1 which are materials produced from the two lowest acetic acid contents studied and do not contain any ammonium salts and sample 003 127 4 which was produced from 25 acetic acid and the highest amount of ammonium acetate studied R C 1 . A similar plot of pH vs. DFT adsorption average pore width does not reflect any discernable trend. Therefore the pH alone does not appear to be a controlling variable for tuning pore width distribution in the RF ultrapure polymer gel and must be considered along with the amount and type of catalyst added in this case basic ammonium salts specifically carbonate or acetate.

Table 7 presents data for RF ultrapure polymer gels that were produced from 25 75 acetic acid water and in this case the RS is relatively high namely 0.6. Samples in this series were hard and monolithic and samples with ammonium salts exhibited notably higher specific surface area 591 to 612 m g compared to the corresponding ultrapure polymer gel absent any ammonium salt specific surface area of 271 m g .

Eight samples from those discussed above were pyrolyzed. The details of these samples are provided in Table 8. All samples in the Table were pyrolyzed via incubation at 900 C. for a dwell time of 60 min. The weight loss upon pyrolysis was 53 3 . In general the specific surface area of the pyrolyzed gel was similar to that for the dried ultrapure polymer gel before pyrolysis.

The pore size distribution in the pyrolyzed gel was related to that for the dried ultrapure polymer gel before pyrolysis. Specifically there was a trend towards a shift in the incremental pore volume vs. pore width towards lower pore widths. For example shows the incremental pore volume vs. pore width plot for sample 003 117 2 before A and after the pyrolysis. It can be seen that the overall distribution was similar with a slight shift towards lower pore width after pyrolysis.

Further examples are provided in and for samples 003 117 4 003 118 2 003 118 3 and 003 118 4 respectively. In each case the pore width distribution in the pyrolyzed sample and B is reflective of the dried ultrapure polymer gel before pyrolysis and slightly shifted downwards towards smaller pore widths . These data are important in showing that tunability in the dried ultrapure polymer gel is carried over into tunability for the pyrolyzed material.

Ultrapure synthetic activated carbon material was prepared from the pyrolyzed samples. A summary of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbons produced is presented in Table 9. A plot of the percent weight loss during the activation process vs the specific surface area is depicted in . As can be seen there was a trend of increasing specific surface area with increasing activation weight loss. There was a trend observed that samples with high specific surface area in the pyrolyzed material tended to have a higher specific surface area in the activated carbon for a given activation weight loss. These data show that high specific surface area ultrapure synthetic activated carbons can be produced from the ultrapure polymer gel formulations described herein.

An example of the pore volume distribution for activated carbon produced from the RF ultrapure polymer gels described herein is presented in . In this case the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon namely 003 118 AC2 exhibits a pore volume distribution that is reflective of the pyrolyzed sample see . These data are important in showing that ability to tune pore and surface characteristics in the ultrapure polymer gel will be translated to an ability to tune the characteristics in the ultrapure synthetic pyrolyzed and ultrapure synthetic activated carbon materials produced from the ultrapure polymer gels.

According to the methods disclosed herein a ultrapure polymer gel was prepared from a binary solvent system comprised of water and acetic acid 75 25 resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate. The material was then placed at elevated temperature to allow for gellation to create a ultrapure polymer gel. Ultrapure polymer gel particles were created from the ultrapure polymer gel and passed through a 4750 micron mesh sieve and said ultrapure polymer gel particles were frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen and loaded into a lyophilization tray at a loading of 3 to 7 g in and lyophilized. The time to dry as inferred from time for product to reach within 2 C. of shelf temperature was related to the product loading on the lyophilizer shelf.

The surface area of the dried gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a Micromeritics Surface Area and Porosity Analyzer model TriStar II . The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 500 to 700 m g.

The dried gel as described in Example 11 was pyrolyzed by passage through a rotary kiln alumina tube with 3.75 in inner diameter at 850 C. with a nitrogen gas flow of 200 L h rate. The weight loss upon pyrolysis was about 52 .

The surface area of the pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the standard BET approach was in the range of about 600 to 700 m g.

The pyrolyzed synthetic carbon material as described in Example 12 was activated by multiple passes through a rotary kiln alumina tube with 2.75 in inner diameter at 900 C. under a COflow rate of 30 L min resulting in a total weight loss of about 45 .

The surface area of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 1600 to 2000 m g.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon from Example 13 was jet milled using a Jet Pulverizer Micron Master 2 inch diameter jet mill. The conditions were about 0.7 lbs of ultrapure synthetic activated carbon per hour nitrogen gas flow about 20 scf per min and about 100 psi pressure. The average particle size after jet milling was about 8 to 10 microns.

According to the methods disclosed herein a ultrapure polymer gel was prepared from a binary solvent system comprised of water and acetic acid 75 25 resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate. The material was then placed at elevated temperature to allow for gellation to create a ultrapure polymer gel. Ultrapure polymer gel particles were created from the ultrapure polymer gel and passed through 4750 micron mesh sieve and said ultrapure polymer gel particles were frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen and loaded into a lyophilization tray at a loading of 3 to 7 g in and lyophilized. The time to dry as inferred from time for product to reach within 2 C. of shelf temperature was related to the product loading on the lyophilizer shelf.

The surface area of the dried gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a Micromeritics Surface Area and Porosity Analyzer model TriStar II . The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 500 to 700 m g.

The dried gel as described in Example 15 was pyrolyzed by passage through a rotary kiln quartz tube with a 3.75 inch inner diameter at 850 C. with a nitrogen gas flow of 200 L h rate. The weight loss upon pyrolysis was about 51 .

The surface area of the pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the standard BET approach was in the range of about 600 to 700 m g.

The pyrolyzed synthetic carbon material as described in Example 16 was activated by incubation at 900 C. in a silica tube 3.75 inch inner diameter with 6.7 L min COflow rate to achieve a final weight loss compared to the starting pyrolyzed carbon of about 54 .

The surface area of the dried gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 1600 to 2000 m g.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon samples were examined for their impurity content via proton induced x ray emission PIXE . PIXE is an industry standard highly sensitive and accurate measurement for simultaneous elemental analysis by excitation of the atoms in a sample to produce characteristic X rays which are detected and their intensities identified and quantitated. PIXE is capable of detection of all elements with atomic numbers ranging from 11 to 92 i.e. from sodium to uranium .

The PIXE impurity Imp. data for ultrapure synthetic activated carbons as disclosed herein as well as other activated carbons for comparison purposes is presented in Table 10. Sample 1 is the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon of Example 13 Sample 2 is the ultrapure synthetic micronized activated carbon of Example 14 Sample 3 is the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon of Example 17 Sample 4 is the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon of Example 35 Sample 5 is the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon of Example 38 Sample 6 is an activated carbon denoted MSP 20 obtained from Kansai Coke and Chemicals Co. Ltd. Kakogawa Japan Sample 7 is an activated carbon denoted YP 50F YP 17D obtained from Kuraray Chemical Co. Osaka Japan .

As seen in Table 10 the ultrapure synthetic activated carbons according to the instant disclosure have a lower PIXE impurity content and lower ash content as compared to other known activated carbon samples.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon of Example 13 i.e. Sample 1 was analyzed for its electrochemical performance specifically for its performance as an electrode material in an EDLC. Specific details regarding fabrication of electrodes EDLC and their testing are described below.

Capacitor electrodes comprised 99 parts by weight carbon particles average particle size 5 15 microns and 1 part by weight Teflon. The carbon and Teflon were masticated in a mortar and pestle until the Teflon was well distributed and the composite had some physical integrity. After mixing the composite was rolled out into a flat sheet approximately 50 microns thick. Electrode disks approximately 1.59 cm in diameter were punched out of the sheet. The electrodes were placed in a vacuum oven attached to a dry box and heated for 12 hours at 195 C. This removed water adsorbed from the atmosphere during electrode preparation. After drying the electrodes were allowed to cool to room temperature the atmosphere in the oven was filled with argon and the electrodes were moved into the dry box where the capacitors were made.

A carbon electrode was placed into a cavity formed by a 1 inch 2.54 cm diameter carbon coated aluminum foil disk and a 50 micron thick polyethylene gasket ring which had been heat sealed to the aluminum. A second electrode was then prepared in the same way. Two drops of electrolyte comprising 1.8 M tetraethylene ammonium tetrafluoroborate in acetonitrile were added to each electrode. Each electrode was covered with a 0.825 inch diameter porous polypropylene separator. The two electrode halves were sandwiched together with the separators facing each other and the entire structure was hot pressed together.

When complete the capacitor was ready for electrical testing with a potentiostat function generator frequency response analyzer. Capacitance was measured by a constant current discharge method comprising applying a current pulse for a known duration and measuring the resulting voltage profile. By choosing a given time and ending voltage the capacitance was calculated from the following C It V where C capacitance I current t time to reached the desired voltage and V the voltage difference between the initial and final voltages. The specific capacitance based on the weight and volume of the two carbon electrodes was obtained by dividing the capacitance by the weight and volume respectively. This data is reported in Table 11 for discharge between 2.7 and 1.89V.

The pyrolyzed synthetic carbon material as described in Example 12 was activated by incubation at 900 C. in a silica tube 3.75 inch inner diameter with 15 L min COflow rate to achieve a final weight loss compared to the starting pyrolyzed carbon of about 55 .

The surface area of the dried gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 2000 m g. The measured pore volume Dv50 of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was at a pore size of about 1.8 nm. The measured pore volume Dv5 of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was at a pore size of about 0.5 nm. The measured total pore volume of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was 1.42 cc g.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon from Example 20 was jet milled using a Jet Pulverizer Micron Master 2 inch diameter jet mill. The conditions were about 0.7 lbs of ultrapure synthetic activated carbon per hour nitrogen gas flow about 20 scf per min and about 100 psi pressure. The average particle size Dv50 after jet milling was about 6 microns. The Dv95 after jet milling was about 19 microns. The measured total ash content of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was 0.008 . The measured tap density of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was 0.22 g cc.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon of Example 21 was used as an electrode material for an electric double later capacitor device as described below.

Capacitor electrodes comprised 99 parts by weight carbon particles average particle size 5 15 microns and 1 part by weight Teflon. The carbon and Teflon were masticated in a mortar and pestle until the Teflon was well distributed and the composite had some physical integrity. After mixing the composite was rolled out into a flat sheet approximately 50 microns thick. Electrode disks approximately 1.59 cm in diameter were punched out of the sheet. The electrodes were placed in a vacuum oven attached to a dry box and heated for 12 hours at 195 C. This removed water adsorbed from the atmosphere during electrode preparation. After drying the electrodes were allowed to cool to room temperature the atmosphere in the oven was filled with argon and the electrodes were moved into the dry box where the capacitors were made.

A carbon electrode was placed into a cavity formed by a 1 inch 2.54 cm diameter carbon coated aluminum foil disk and a 50 micron thick polyethylene gasket ring which had been heat sealed to the aluminum. A second electrode was then prepared in the same way. Two drops of electrolyte comprising 1.8 M tetraethylene ammonium tetrafluoroborate in acetonitrile were added to each electrode. Each electrode was covered with a 0.825 inch diameter porous polypropylene separator. The two electrode halves were sandwiched together with the separators facing each other and the entire structure was hot pressed together.

The device described in Example 22 was subjected to electrical testing with a potentiostat function generator frequency response analyzer. Capacitance was measured by a constant current discharge method comprising applying a current pulse for a known duration and measuring the resulting voltage profile over time. By choosing a given time and ending voltage the capacitance was calculated from the following C It V where C capacitance I current t time to reached the desired voltage and V the voltage difference between the initial and final voltages. The specific capacitance based on the weight and volume of the two carbon electrodes was obtained by dividing the capacitance by the weight and volume respectively. This data is reported in Table 12 for discharge between 2.7 and 1.89V.

For comparison devices were also constructed from two other commercially available activated carbons Sample 6 and Sample 7. The gravimetric and volumetric power and gravimetric and volumetric energy performance data for these comparator carbons are presented in Table 13 for discharge between 2.7 and 1.89V.

For comparison devices were constructed from either ultrapure synthetic activated carbon as disclosed herein or a commercially available activated carbon Sample 6. The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was produced as described below.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon Sample 8 was produced from an RF ultrapure polymer gel prepared according to the disclosed methods i.e. binary solvent system comprised of water and acetic acid 75 25 resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate that was freeze thawed re frozen on a lyophilizer shelf at about 30 C. and then dried under vacuum. The dried ultrapure polymer gel was then pyrolyzed at 850 C. under nitrogen gas followed by activation at 950 C. under COgas flow as consistent with processes described herein. The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon thus produced had a tap density of about 0.42 g cm a specific surface area of about 1836 m g a total pore volume of about 0.95 cm g a fractional pore volume of about 54 for pores with diameter of 20 nm or less relative to total pore volume a fractional pore volume of about 82 for pores with a diameter of 100 nm or less relative to total pore volume a fractional pore surface of about 81 for pores with a diameter of 20 nm or less relative to total pore surface and a fractional pore surface area of about 97 for pores with a diameter of 100 nm or less relative to total pore surface area.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon Sample 9 was produced from a RF ultrapure polymer gel prepared according to the disclosed methods i.e. binary solvent system comprised of water and acetic acid 75 25 resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate that was frozen by submerging RF ultrapure polymer gel particles in liquid nitrogen drying under vacuum and then pyrolyzing in a rotary kiln with the temperature across the kiln having three hot zones set to temperatures from 650 C. 850 C. and 850 C. respectively and the material was subjected pyrolysis under nitrogen gas flow followed by activation at 950 C. under COgas flow as consistent with processes described herein. The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon had a tap density of about 0.42 g cm a specific surface area of about 2148 m g a total pore volume of greater than about 0.93 cm3 g a fractional pore volume of about 72 for pores with a diameter of 20 nm or less relative to total pore volume a fractional pore volume of about greater than 99 for pores with a diameter of 100 nm or less relative to total pore volume a fractional pore surface of about 80 for pores with a diameter of 20 nm or less relative to total pore surface and a fractional pore surface area of greater than about 99 for pores with a diameter of 100 nm or less relative to total pore surface area.

The devices were subjected to a voltage hold at 2.7 V for 24 hours at 65 C. . The devices were then tested for their capacitance from a constant current discharge between 2.7 and 1.89 V at current densities of 0.5 A g 1 A g 4 A g and 8 A g acetonitrile solvent TEATFB electrolyte .

The data for relative gravimetric capacitance remaining as compared to before the voltage hold process are presented in Table 14 Sample 6 and Table 15 and Table 16 for ultrapure synthetic activated carbon samples 8 and 9 respectively . The data show a dramatic decrease in the volumetric capacitance after the voltage hold process for the commercially available activated carbon. In contrast the decrease in performance for the device containing ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was much lower.

For comparison devices were constructed from either ultrapure synthetic activated carbon as disclosed herein or a commercially available activated carbon Sample 6. The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was produced as described below.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon Sample 10 was produced from an RF ultrapure polymer gel prepared according to the disclosed methods i.e. binary solvent system comprised of water and acetic acid 75 25 resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate that was frozen on a lyophilizer shelf at about 50 C. and then dried under vacuum. The dried ultrapure polymer gel was then pyrolyzed at 850 C. under nitrogen gas followed by activation at 900 C. under COgas flow as consistent with processes described herein. The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon thus produced had a tap density of about 0.307 g cm a specific surface area of about 1600 m g a total pore volume of about 1.02 cm g a fractional pore volume of about 59 for pores with diameter of 2 nm or less relative to total pore volume a fractional pore volume of about 76 for pores with a diameter of 10 nm or less relative to total pore volume a fractional pore surface area of about 94 for pores with a diameter of 2 nm or less relative to total pore surface and a fractional pore surface area of about 98 for pores with a diameter of 10 nm or less relative to total pore surface area.

The devices were subjected to a voltage hold at 3.5V for 25 hours at room temperature. The devices were then tested for their capacitance from a constant current discharge between 3.5 and 0.1 V at constant currents of 1 10 50 mA propylene carbonate solvent TEATFB electrolyte .

The data for relative volumetric capacitance remaining as compared to before the voltage hold process are presented in Table 17 for Sample 6 and Table 18 for ultrapure synthetic activated carbon Sample 10 . The data show a dramatic decrease in the volumetric capacitance after the voltage hold process for the commercially available activated carbon. In contrast the decrease in performance for the device containing ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was much lower.

For comparison devices were constructed from ultrapure synthetic activated carbon materials as disclosed herein or a commercially available activated carbon Sample 6. The gravimetric and volumetric power and gravimetric and volumetric energy performance data for these commercially available carbons are presented in Table 13 for discharge between 2.7 and 1.89V. The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was produced as described below.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon Sample 11 was produced from an RF ultrapure polymer gel prepared according to the disclosed methods i.e. binary solvent system comprised of water and acetic acid 75 25 resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate that was ground into particles frozen on a lyophilizer shelf at about 30 C. dried under vacuum and then pyrolyzed at 850 C. under nitrogen gas followed by activation at 900 C. under COgas flow as consistent with processes described herein. The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon had a tap density of about 0.28 g cm a specific surface area of about 1754 m g a total pore volume of about 1.15 cm g a fractional pore volume of about 53 for pores with a diameter of 20 nm or less relative to total pore volume a fractional pore volume of about 76 for pores with a diameter of 100 nm or less relative to total pore volume a fractional pore surface of about 91 for pores with a diameter of 20 nm or less relative to total pore surface and a fractional pore surface area of about 99 for pores with a diameter of 100 nm or less relative to total pore surface area.

The devices were subjected to several thousand cycling events between 2 V and 1 V acetonitrile solvent TEATFB electrolyte . The data demonstrate that the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon Sample 11 as disclosed herein retains 99.78 of it s original capacitance after 3000 cycles. The data demonstrates that Sample 6 electrode prepared in exactly the same way has retained only 97.11 of its original capacitance after 2600 cycles. The degradation from 100 to 99.78 is almost perfectly linear in both cases and so if it is extrapolated out to 10 000 cycles the ultrapure carbon would retain 99.25 of it s original capacitance and the Sample 8 capacitor would retain only 88.89 of it s original capacitance. This indicates that the ultrapure synthetic carbon is substantially more stable in the first several thousand cycles as opposed to Sample 6 Cycling data at 4 A g between 2V and 1V in ACN . As can be seen the ultrapure synthetic carbon exhibits a dramatically improved retention of capacitance after cycling compared to non ultrapure carbons.

According to the methods disclosed herein a ultrapure polymer gel was prepared from a binary solvent system comprised of water and acetic acid 75 25 resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate. The material was then placed at elevated temperature to allow for gellation to create an ultrapure polymer gel. Ultrapure polymer gel particles were created from the ultrapure polymer gel and passed through a Stedman Aurora crusher outfitted with corrosion resistant stainless steel blades and screen. Ultrapure polymer gel particles were frozen by immersion in liquid nitrogen and loaded into a lyophilization tray at a loading of 3 to 7 g in and lyophilized. The time to dry as inferred from time for product to reach within 2 C. of shelf temperature was related to the product loading on the lyophilizer shelf.

The surface area of the dried gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a Micromeritics Surface Area and Porosity Analyzer model TriStar II . The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 500 to 700 m g.

The dried gel as described in Example 28 was pyrolyzed by passage through a rotary kiln metal tube with mullite liner with 4.18 inch inner diameter at 0.7 kg h at 680 to 850 C. gradient hot zones with a nitrogen gas flow of 4 250 L h rate. The weight loss upon pyrolysis was about 50 to 52 .

The surface area of the pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the standard BET approach was in the range of about 600 to 700 m g.

The pyrolyzed synthetic carbon material as described in Example 29 was activated by incubation at 900 C. in a quartz tube 3.75 inch inner diameter with 6.7 L min COflow rate to achieve a final weight loss compared to the starting pyrolyzed carbon of about 55 .

The surface area of the activated carbon material was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 2500 m g. The measured pore volume Dv50 of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was at a pore size of about 1.8 nm. The measured pore volume Dv5 of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was at a pore size of about 0.5 nm. The measured total pore volume of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was 1.07 cc g.

The ultrapure synthetic activated carbon of Example 30 was used as an electrode material for an electric double later capacitor device as described below.

Capacitor electrodes comprised 97 parts by weight carbon particles average particle size 5 15 microns and 3 parts by weight Teflon. The carbon and Teflon were masticated in a mortar and pestle until the Teflon was well distributed and the composite had some physical integrity. After mixing the composite was rolled out into a flat sheet approximately 50 microns thick. Electrode disks approximately 1.59 cm in diameter were punched out of the sheet. The electrodes were placed in a vacuum oven attached to a dry box and heated for 12 hours at 195 C. This removed water adsorbed from the atmosphere during electrode preparation. After drying the electrodes were allowed to cool to room temperature the atmosphere in the oven was filled with argon and the electrodes were moved into the dry box where the capacitors were made.

Standard 2325 stainless steel coin cell parts were used in coin cell assembly. A 0.625 inch diameter carbon coated aluminum disk was used as a contact resistance reducer in the positive cap. A 0.625 inch diameter carbon electrode on top of the aluminum disk was saturated with several drops of electrolyte comprising 1.0 M tetraethylene ammonium tetrafluoroborate in acetonitrile. Two pieces of cellulose based porous separator with 0.825 inch from NKK Inc were then placed on top of the carbon disk. Next the second piece of carbon electrode was placed on the separator and one more drop of electrolyte was added to wet the top surface. After that the second carbon coated aluminum contact resistance reducer was put on the electrode. Then one stainless spacer and spring was placed sequentially and the whole stack was covered in the negative cap with a polypropylene grommet. The whole cell stack was then put onto a hydraulic pressure operated crimper and crimped for 1 minute at full pressure to form a sealed coin cell.

The device described in Example 31 was subjected to electrical testing with a potentiostat function generator frequency response analyzer. Capacitance was measured by a constant current discharge method comprising applying a current pulse for a known duration and measuring the resulting voltage profile over time. By choosing a given time and ending voltage the capacitance was calculated from the following C It V where C capacitance I current t time to reached the desired voltage and V the voltage difference between the initial and final voltages. The specific capacitance based on the weight and volume of the two carbon electrodes was obtained by dividing the capacitance by the weight and volume respectively. This data is reported in Table 19 for discharge between 2.7 and 1.89V.

According to the methods disclosed herein an ultrapure polymer gel was prepared from a binary solvent system comprised of water and acetic acid 75 25 resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate. The material was then placed at elevated temperature to allow for gellation to create a ultrapure polymer gel. Ultrapure polymer gel particles were created from the ultrapure polymer gel and passed through 4750 micron mesh sieve and said ultrapure polymer gel particles were loaded into a lyophilization tray at a loading of 3 to 7 g in frozen on a lyophilizer shelf which was pre cooled to about 40 C. and lyophilized. The time to dry as inferred from time for product to reach within 2 C. of shelf temperature was related to the product loading on the lyophilizer shelf.

The surface area of the dried gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a Micromeritics Surface Area and Porosity Analyzer model TriStar II . The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 500 to 600 m g.

The dried gel as described in Example 11 was pyrolyzed by passage through a rotary kiln quartz tube with 3.75 in inner diameter at 850 C. with a nitrogen gas flow of 200 L h rate. The weight loss upon pyrolysis was about 52 .

The surface area of the pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the standard BET approach was in the range of about 500 to 700 m g.

The pyrolyzed synthetic carbon material as described in Example 12 was activated in a batch process through a rotary kiln quartz tube with 3.75 in inner diameter at 900 C. under a COflow rate of 400 L h resulting in a total weight loss of about 45 .

The surface area of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 1600 to 2000 m g. This carbon will be referred to herein as Sample 4.

According to the methods disclosed herein a ultrapure polymer gel was prepared from a binary solvent system comprised of water and acetic acid 75 25 resorcinol formaldehyde and ammonium acetate. The material was then placed at elevated temperature to allow for gellation to create a ultrapure polymer gel. Ultrapure polymer gel particles were created from the ultrapure polymer gel and passed through 4750 micron mesh sieve and said ultrapure polymer gel particles were loaded into a lyophilization tray at a loading of 3 to 7 g in frozen on a lyophilizer shelf which was pre cooled to about 40 C and lyophilized. The time to dry as inferred from time for product to reach within 2 C. of shelf temperature was related to the product loading on the lyophilizer shelf.

The surface area of the dried gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a Micromeritics Surface Area and Porosity Analyzer model TriStar II . The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 500 to 700 m g.

The dried gel as described in Example 11 was pyrolyzed by passage through a rotary kiln quartz tube with 3.75 in inner diameter at 850 C. with a nitrogen gas flow of 200 L h rate. The weight loss upon pyrolysis was about 52 .

The surface area of the pyrolyzed dried ultrapure polymer gel was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the standard BET approach was in the range of about 500 to 700 m g.

The pyrolyzed synthetic carbon material as described in Example 12 was activated in a batch process through a rotary kiln quartz tube with 3.75 in inner diameter at 900 C. under a COflow rate of 400 L h resulting in a total weight loss of about 44 .

The surface area of the ultrapure synthetic activated carbon was examined by nitrogen surface analysis using a surface area and porosity analyzer. The measured specific surface area using the BET approach was in the range of about 1600 to 2000 m g. This carbon will be referred to herein as Sample 5.

The synthetic activated carbon material identified as Sample 1 was analyzed for H N and O at Elemental Analysis Inc. Lexington Ky. . The data showed that the hydrogen content was 0.25 the nitrogen content was 0.21 and the oxygen content was 0.53 .

The various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Aspects of the embodiments can be modified if necessary to employ concepts of the various patents applications and publications to provide yet further embodiments. These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in light of the above detailed description. In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all possible embodiments along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. Accordingly the claims are not limited by the disclosure.

