---

title: Independent game and chat volume control
abstract: Methods and systems are provided for independent audio volume control. For example, an audio component (e.g., implemented in an element of an audio setup) may control generation and/or outputting of a combined-game-and-chat audio signals. The audio component may receive user input comprising one or both of: a setting for a desired volume of a chat audio component of the combined-game-and-chat audio signal, and a setting for a desired volume of a game audio component of the combined-game-and-chat audio signal. The audio component may determine, based on the user input, a corresponding mix setting for mixing together of the chat audio component and the game audio component in an audio source to generate the combined-game-and-chat audio signal and a corresponding volume setting applicable at an audio output element; provide the mix setting to the audio source; and provide the volume setting to the audio output element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09383964&OS=09383964&RS=09383964
owner: VOYETRA TURTLE BEACH, INC.
number: 09383964
owner_city: Valhalla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150422
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 687 028 filed on Apr. 15 2015. The above identified application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the present application relate to audio systems and solutions particularly with respect to electronic gaming. More specifically to methods and systems for independent game and chat volume control.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to audio processing and audio output devices will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for independent game and chat volume control substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components e.g. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . The term and or in this example has the same scope as the term one or both of x and y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . The term and or in this example has the same scope as the term one or more of x y and z . As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled e.g. by some user configurable setting factory trim etc. .

In multiplayer games that are played over a local area network or the internet via a console such as Microsoft Xbox or Sony Playstation game audio and voice are combined and provided via an audio output e.g. an analog or digital output audio jack for wired output or a radio for wireless output to which a user may connect a headset. One problem with this form of game play is that the game audio in the headset has a wide dynamic range. In other words at times a low volume can rapidly increase to a high volume when for instance an explosion or other dynamic event occurs in the game. These loudness dynamics may be sustained for long periods of time for instance during heated battle in an action game. A consequence of this wide dynamic range is that if the volume of the voice communication signals the chat volume is set for a comfortable volume level during normal game passages they cannot be heard over the loud game audio when dynamic game passages occur. Aspects of this disclosure provide for controlling volume of chat and or game components of combined chat and game audio signals to maintain the user s ability to hear the chat audio.

The game console may be for example a Windows computing device a UNIX computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like.

The game console may comprise suitable circuitry for implementing various aspects of the present disclosure. The example game console shown in comprises a video interface radio data interface network interface video interface audio interface southbridge main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various busses links and .

The southbridge comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment 2 SATA 2 embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCIe or the like. The southbridge may receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA 2 and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA 2 and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The southbridge exchanges data with radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCIe .

The radio may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like.

The network interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCIe and may communicate with a network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise circuitry operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding 3D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 5 7 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises a memory element e.g. a hardware or software register which stores configuration data including gain volume settings. The configuration data may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory comprises high speed memory typically DRAM for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to a user interface device a user interface device a network a monitor and audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like. The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth and or the like . The user interface device communicates with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. Gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuitry. The game console sends audio to the monitor via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio .

The example peripheral devices shown include a monitor a user interface device a headset an audio basestation and a multi purpose device . The monitor and user interface device are as described above. An example implementation of the headset is described below with reference to .

In some instances the user interface device may be a game controller. In this regard the game controller may have a plurality of control elements e.g. and which the user may use during gaming. Examples of control elements may comprise buttons directional pads joysticks etc. Further in some implementations the game controller may comprise a headset connector which may be used to connect with the headset such as to provide audio feed thereto and or receive audio input therefrom. The headset connector may comprise suitable circuitry for supporting connectivity with the headset and or for supporting audio input output operations based on such connectivity. The connectivity may be provided as wired connection e.g. using cables cords etc. or may be wireless e.g. Bluetooth WiFi etc. . While shown as an externally distinguishable component the headset connector need not be limited as such and it may be embedded within the game controller and or its functions may be provided by existing circuitry of the game controller .

The multi purpose device may be for example a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer or the like and that runs an operating system such as Android Linux Windows iOS OSX or the like. An example implementation of the multi purpose device is described below with reference to . Hardware e.g. a network adaptor and software i.e. the operating system and one or more applications loaded onto the device may configure the device for operating as part of the GPN . For example an application running on the device may cause display of a graphical user interface via which a user can access gaming related data commands functions parameter settings etc. and via which the user can interact with the console and the other devices of the GPN to enhance his her gaming experience.

The peripheral devices are in communication with one another via a plurality of wired and or wireless links represented visually by the placement of the devices in the cloud of GPN . Each of the peripheral devices in the gaming peripheral network GPN may communicate with one or more others of the peripheral devices in the GPN in a single hop or multi hop fashion. For example the headset may communicate with the basestation in a single hop e.g. over a proprietary RF link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the tablet may communicate with the basestation in two hops via the headset .

As another example the user interface device may communicate with the headset in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the device may communicate with the headset in two hops via the user interface device . These example interconnections among the peripheral devices of the GPN are merely examples any number and or types of links among the devices of the GPN is possible.

The GPN may communicate with the console via any one or more of the connections and described above. The GPN may communicate with a network via one or more links each of which may be for example Wi Fi wired Ethernet and or the like.

A database which stores gaming audio data is accessible via the network . The gaming audio data may comprise for example signatures of particular audio clips e.g. individual sounds or collections or sequences of sounds that are part of the game audio of particular games of particular levels scenarios of particular games particular characters of particular games etc. Data in the database may be downloadable to or accessed in real time by one of more devices of the GPN .

The headset comprises for example a headband a microphone boom with microphone ear cups and which surround speakers and connector connector and user controls .

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone converts acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by circuitry of the headset and or for output to a device e.g. console basestation a smartphone and or the like that is in communication with the headset.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct or the like with another computing device and or the like.

The connector may be for example a USB port. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example parameter settings described below . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer laptop computer or the like.

The radio may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the basestation .

The CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage device may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the headset and parameter settings that affect functions performed by the user controls . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuitry e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the headset in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game chat and or microphone audio that is subsequently output to speaker and . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on chat audio that is subsequently output to the connector and or radio .

The headset and the console may be similar to the headset and the console as described above with respect to and may operate in substantially the same manner. The game controller may be similar to the game controller of . In this regard the game controller may be utilized by a user during gaming operations. Further in some instances a headset connector which may be similar to the headset connector of may be included and may be used to facilitate connectivity with the headset and or audio input output operations based on such connectivity.

As described in more detail above consoles such as the console may provide audio output to a headset such as the headset during gaming operations for example. In this regard the output audio may comprise game audio and chat audio. The audio output may be transmitted directly by the console to the headset using a wired connection e.g. USB cable or wirelessly such as via wireless connection e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth or the like using integrated communication resources in the console . In some instances particularly where the console lacks integrated wireless resources the external T R device may be used. The external T R device may comprise suitable circuitry for support connectivity to the console e.g. via wired connectors wireless connectivity to the headset and or to perform necessary functions e.g. conversion between different interfaces processing etc. to support forwarding of data e.g. audio via the respective connections.

Other means for providing communication between the console and the headset e.g. to output audio to the headset may include use of the game controller . In this regard the audio may be transmitted to the game controller via a link . The link may be a wired link e.g. similar to the link or a wireless link e.g. similar to the link . The game controller may then send the audio to the headset via a link between these elements particularly between the headset connector and the headset . As with link the link may be a wired link e.g. similar to the link or a wireless link e.g. similar to the link . The links and need not match thus the link may be a wired link while link may be a wireless link and vice versa.

In some instances the console may be configured to generate combined audio output which may include for example both game audio and chat audio. In this regard the console may comprise a mixer which may comprise suitable circuitry for mixing the game audio Audio and chat audio Audio into the combined audio output. The mixing performed by the mixer may be adjusted. The mixing adjustments may comprise changing the proportion of the combined audio output that each of the audio inputs being mixed occupies. The mixing and adjustments thereof may be controlled via a mix controller . In this regard the mix controller may comprise suitable circuitry for controlling mixing during generation of audio outputs. For example the mix controller may adjust via control signals gain applied to each of the audio signals being mixed e.g. to each of Audioand Audio to effectuate the desired mixing ratio.

In some instances the mixing controller may adjust the mixing based on a setting of an audio mix parameter where different settings of the audio mix parameter correspond to different proportions of Audioand the Audioin the combined audio output. Thus the proportions of the components of the combined audio output may be controlled by a setting of the audio mix parameter which may be stored for example in memory element described above with respect to . Such setting of the mix parameter however may not always be desirable as users may not want or even know how to properly set the mix parameter. Accordingly in various implementations in accordance with the present disclosure control of the combined audio output may be enhanced by simplifying the user interaction inputs used to control the mixing particularly by obviating the need for direct user setting of the mix parameter.

For example rather than requiring the user to expressly select a particular setting for the mix parameter the user may simply be enabled to separately set a plurality of volume parameters corresponding to the plurality of audio components being mixed. The plurality of audio component volume parameters set by the user may then be processed and based on the processing corresponding settings for the mix parameter may be determined. To ensure compatibility with different sources e.g. consoles of different makes models etc. translation of the plurality of audio component volume parameters to the mix parameter may be adaptively configured based on a particular source the device where the combined output is generated being used. For example in some example implementations a console that is being used may be initially characterized. The characterization may then be used during processing of the user selected settings of the plurality of audio component volume parameters.

In some example implementations separate input elements may be used to allow the separate user volume selections. For example the user controls of the headset may comprise one or more controls e.g. two volume setting knobs chat volume and game volume four volume control buttons chat up chat down game up game down or the like each of which is configured to set a volume parameter for a respective one of the audio components of the combine audio output. In this manner the user can use the controls to independently set the game volume and the chat volume.

In some example implementations a dedicated independent volume control component may be used to support the functions implementing and facilitating independent user volume inputs. Such dedicated independent volume control component may be implemented in or incorporated into one or more of the elements in the audio arrangement. For example the independent volume control component may be implemented in the headset in the game controller or the headset connector and or in the external T R device . This may allow supporting the new independent volume control scheme without requiring change to the game console itself thus ensuring backward compatibility and or compatibility with different consoles. Nonetheless the disclosure is not so limited and in some embodiments the independent volume control component may be implemented in the game console itself. The independent volume control component may be implemented as a software module using existing circuitry of the host device. Alternatively the independent volume control component may comprise dedicated circuitry for providing the functions and or operations associated with the component. An example implementation of such component is described in more detail with respect to .

The system may comprise suitable circuitry for implementing various aspects of the present disclosure. In particular the system may be configured to support independent volume control of multiple audio components that are combined into a single audio output from a particular audio source such as a game console e.g. game console of . The system may be implemented in or integrated into one or more elements in an audio arrangement comprising the source of the combined audio output. For example as noted with respect to the system may be implemented in or integrated into one or more of the headset the game controller the headset connector and the external T R device or in some instances even the game console itself . In some implementations the system may be realized with a micro processor configured to execute instructions located in a memory.

In the example implementation shown in the system may comprise a volume mix processing block and a storage element . The volume mix processing block may comprise suitable circuitry for processing user input specifying a volume setting for each of a plurality of audio components e.g. game audio and chat audio in a combined audio output. Based on such processing data may be generated and the data may be used e.g. communicated as control outputs and or in controlling or adjusting mixing performed when the combined audio output are generated by mixing the audio components and or in controlling or adjusting audio functions or operations performed when outputting the combined audio output comprising the mixed audio components. The storage element may comprise circuitry for storing and providing when needed data pertaining to operations or functions of the system .

In an example implementation and an example use scenario thereof once the user enters a new volume setting for one of the audio components of the combined audio output e.g. a new chat volume setting shown as vol sel in . In this regard the volume settings may be entered via or derived from user interactions with user controls which may be incorporated into one or more elements in the audio arrangement such as in one or more of elements and of . For example the user may specify a new selection for the chat volume setting vol sel by turning a chat volume knob. In similar manner the user may specify instead a new selection for game volume setting shown as vol sel in . The following steps may then take place 1 the difference between the game and chat volumes e.g. vol diff vol sel vol sel is computed where the volumes may be represented in decibels dBs relative to a determined maximum volume and thus the difference may also be in decibels 2 a characterization of the audio source e.g. the game console is used to determine setting s for mix parameter s that corresponds to the calculated difference 3 a command is sent e.g. as control output to the audio source to set the mix parameter s to the determined setting s 4 as a result of the command the mix parameter s is are set by the audio source to the determined setting s which results in a change in the respective volumes and or other characteristics of the components of the combined audio output 5 new setting s may be determined if necessary for volume parameter s of the system 6 the new setting s of the volume parameter s may be put into effect at a rate that is time synchronized with changes to the combined audio output resulting from the new setting s of the mix parameter s which may be known from characterization of the audio source . The setting s of the volume parameter s may be sent e.g. as control output to the audio output element s e.g. the headset that are used in outputting the combined audio.

For example with respect to the example audio arrangement depicted in the mix adjustments may be sent via the control output to the game console particularly the mix controller thereof whereas the volume settings may be sent via the control output to the headset or to any of the other elements that may affect the volume of the combined audio output such as the console the game controller the headset connector and or the T R device .

The volume parameter s may control gain or attenuation applied in the system to the combined audio output. New setting s of the volume parameter s may be used to compensate for any change in volume of the combined audio output as a result of the new setting s of the mix parameter s . For example the volume parameter s may be set to or be based on the difference between a target component volume e.g. vol sel or vol sel and the volume of that component in the combined audio e.g. the volume parameter may be set to vol sel console vol or to vol sel console vol .

The characterization of the audio source e.g. console may be implemented as one or more lookup tables. For example characterization of the audio source may be used to generate two lookup tables a first lookup table may map various values for the difference between the game and chat volumes e.g. of vol diff to corresponding mix settings e.g. settings of the mix parameter applied in the audio source and a second lookup table may map various mix settings e.g. settings of the mix parameter to corresponding volume measurements of game component in the combined audio output. In another example implementation source characterization may be used to generate two lookup tables a first lookup table that contains mappings between different values settings of the mix parameter and corresponding game and chat volume combinations and a second lookup table that contains the volume parameter for each game and chat combination.

The characterization can be pre programmed or may be obtained by testing the response of the console to different settings of the mix parameter. The characterization data e.g. table may be pre programmed into the system e.g. stored in the storage element provided thereby via control signal . Alternatively the characterization data may be obtained dynamically. For example the characterization data may be obtained using test audio files may be used at the audio source. The test audio files may be used for example to generate or to control or adjust generation of combined audio output at the audio source. In this regard the use of such audio test files may allow characterizing the combined audio output e.g. by allowing monitoring or detecting characteristics of the combined audio output in relation to different ratios of the audio components are mixed into the combined audio output which the different ratios may be predefined in the audio test files. The resultant data is then used to populate the characterization structures e.g. tables in the system .

In an example use scenario the characterization table may be generated by 1 playing test audio for output by the game console as the combined audio output 2 varying the setting of the mix parameter while playing the test audio 3 measuring e.g. RMS voltage the game component and or chat component of the combined audio output for various settings of the mix parameter and 4 normalizing measured values relative to the maximum measured value. The same steps may be performed multiple times for multiple audio components of the combined audio output. The results of the test s may then be combined to generate overall characterization table corresponding to different combination of component volume settings.

In an example implementation outputs of the system may be provided in an adaptive manner e.g. with some delay and or with ramping to enhance and or optimize user experience. For example once adjustments or settings e.g. mixing adjustments for the audio source e.g. game console volume adjustments or settings for the audio output e.g. headset etc. are determined based on processing the component volume selections the adjustments or settings may be output to the console first and then after some delay provided to the audio output e.g. headset . The delay may be pre set or may be determined dynamically. The delay may be determined or set to account for application of the mix adjustments at the game console e.g. to account for the time it would take the console to apply the adjusted mixing when creating the combined output the manner by which the mixing adjustment is done such as single change vs. incremental etc. . Also rather than making abrupt changes adjustments mixing at the source side and or volume at the output side may be ramped up or down in steps to avoid sudden and unpleasant changes in audio experienced by the user.

In step at a start state a gaming arrangement is setup e.g. connections are setup between various elements of the arrangement which may comprise a game console a game controller and headset and operations e.g. gaming chatting etc. are started.

In step user input is received e.g. via controls on a headset for separate selections of 1 desired volume of a game component of a combined game and chat audio signal and 2 desired volume of a chat component of the combined game and chat audio signal.

In step the user input e.g. volume selections is processed. Based on the processing a setting of the mix parameter corresponding to the separately selected chat and game audio volumes is determined.

In step based on processing of the user input and or on the mix setting determined in block volume settings or adjustments to be applied at the headset are determined. The volume related settings or adjustments are determined such that in combination with the mix setting determined in block the desired volume of the game component volume and the desired volume of the chat component are realized at the headset output.

In step the mix setting determined in block may be provided output for application at the console and volume settings or adjustment may be provided output for application at the headset.

While the various implementations disclosed herein are described in conjunction with chat and game audio it should be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily so limited and that similar approach may be used to enhance off screen sounds in other use scenarios.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

