---

title: Systems and methods for transferring value to payment accounts
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for transferring value from to a payment account associated with a virtual wallet of a consumer. The value can be transferred using voucher-based transactions or cash-based transactions. One exemplary method includes receiving, at a computing device, a load request to transfer value to a payment account associated with a consumer. The load request includes the value to be transferred and a directory number for a mobile device associated with the consumer. The method also includes determining an account number for the consumer's payment account, at the computing device, based on the directory number for the consumer's mobile device and generating, by the computing device, a request indicating the value to transfer to the payment account and the account number for the consumer's payment account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558483&OS=09558483&RS=09558483
owner: MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INCORPORATED
number: 09558483
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150113
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 479 941 filed on Sep. 8 2014 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for transferring value to payment accounts such as those for example associated with virtual wallets etc. using cash vouchers etc.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.

Virtual wallets e.g. mobile wallets etc. are used by consumers in transactions with merchants to purchase goods and services. Often the consumers load predetermined monetary values to accounts associated with the virtual wallets and then later use the values in transactions with the merchants. When the monetary values in the accounts are depleted the consumers reload them prior to further use. Separately vouchers and cash are often used by consumers in payment transactions to purchase goods or services from the merchants.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

The description and specific examples included herein are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Virtual wallets are used by consumers in payment transactions with merchants. Prior to initiating the payment transactions monetary value is typically loaded or transferred to accounts associated with the virtual wallets to fund the transactions. The systems and methods herein allow the consumers to load the value to the accounts based on directory numbers e.g. phone numbers etc. for mobile devices associated with the consumers and linked to their accounts. The monetary value loaded to the accounts can then be used through the virtual wallets to complete payment transactions with the merchants.

With reference now to the drawings illustrates an exemplary system in which one or more aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented. Although components of the system are presented in one arrangement it should be appreciated that other exemplary embodiments may include the same or different components arranged otherwise for example depending on associations between various entities of the system etc.

The illustrated system generally includes a value transfer provider a voucher provider which may also be a merchant an acquirer a payment network an issuer a conversion engine and a merchant which may also be a voucher provider each coupled to network . The network may include without limitation a wired and or wireless network one or more local area network LAN wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet etc. other network as described herein and or other suitable public and or private network capable of supporting communication among two or more of the illustrated components or any combination thereof. In one example the network includes multiple networks where different ones of the multiple networks are accessible to different ones of the illustrated components in .

Generally in the system a consumer has a virtual wallet associated with a payment account issued by the issuer . Upon use of the mobile wallet to perform a payment transaction via a mobile device associated with the consumer e.g. at the merchant at another merchant etc. the value of the transaction is deducted from the payment account. In the illustrated embodiment the virtual wallet is a mobile pre paid wallet requiring value e.g. cash credits etc. to be present in the associated payment account prior to use of the virtual wallet. When the value in the payment account is depleted the consumer must reload the account prior to further use i.e. a line of credit is not associated with the virtual wallet in the illustrated embodiment . With that said the mobile device may include any suitable mobile device such as for example a mobile phone a tablet computer etc. In other exemplary embodiments virtual wallets may be associated with lines of credit. In these embodiments funds transferred to accounts associated with the virtual wallets can then be used as payments against the lines of credits.

To provide value to the payment account associated with the virtual wallet e.g. to load reload etc. the payment account etc. prior to use of the wallet in a transaction with the merchant the consumer can utilize either voucher based transactions or cash based transactions reload fees may or may not be charged for example by the voucher provider or merchant .

As shown in in connection with a voucher based transaction the consumer purchases a voucher from the merchant or from another source with a desired value to be placed in the payment account. The voucher is initially provided to the merchant by the voucher provider and may or may not be associated with the issuer of the consumer s payment account e.g. the voucher can be an open loop voucher or a closed loop voucher etc. . The merchant collects funds e.g. cash etc. from the consumer corresponding to the value of the voucher and communicates to the voucher provider via the network a voucher identification number VID for the purchased voucher and the value of the voucher. Using this data the voucher provider activates the voucher in the desired value e.g. in a data structure associated with the voucher provider etc. and communicates via the network an activation confirmation back to the merchant . The merchant then provides a voucher activation receipt to the consumer indicating the VID and the voucher value for the purchased voucher.

To transfer the value of the voucher in total or in part to the payment account associated with the consumer s virtual wallet the consumer submits a request e.g. a transfer request a load request etc. to the value transfer provider . In so doing the consumer identifies the VID and or provides other data to identify the purchased voucher and the value associated therewith and a directory number e.g. a phone number such as a MSISDN etc. for the consumer s mobile device .

As part of the system the value transfer provider may include a website accessible to the consumer via the network to facilitate the value transfer. Upon accessing the website various interfaces may be displayed for use by the consumer to enter the VID and the directory number for the consumer s mobile device . Alternatively the value transfer provider may be associated with a particular phone number and in some aspects may also include an interactive voice response IVR system etc. . The consumer may then call or text the particular phone number and provide the VID and the directory number to the value transfer provider or the value transfer provider may automatically recognize the consumer s directory number based on the mobile device from which the call is being sent .

After receiving the request from the consumer the value transfer provider confirms the validity and or the value of the voucher identified by the consumer before further processing the consumer s request. As an example the value transfer provider may communicate data relating to the voucher as received from the consumer to the voucher provider via the network for verification. If the voucher data is valid the voucher provider may then communicate a confirmation back to the value transfer provider . Alternatively if the voucher data is invalid e.g. the VID is invalid the voucher value is invalid etc. the voucher provider may then communicate a warning back to the value transfer provider and in some embodiments may flag the voucher as invalid etc. .

Also after receiving the request from the consumer the value transfer provider communicates a request e.g. a conversion request etc. to the conversion engine via the network for the account number of the consumer s payment account e.g. via an application programming interface API associated with the conversion engine etc. . In particular the value transfer provider communicates the consumer s directory number to the conversion engine as part of the request and the conversion engine then maps or identifies e.g. via account number mapping etc. the account number of the consumer s payment account based on the directory number. For example in the illustrated embodiment the conversion engine includes a data structure comprising directory numbers for mobile devices for multiple consumers and corresponding account numbers for payment accounts for the consumers with each consumer directory number associated with the consumer s corresponding account number. Using the data structure the conversion engine can identify the requested account number based on the consumer s directory number and communicate it back to the value transfer provider via the network .

Next the value transfer provider generates a transaction request and communicates it via the network to the acquirer for the voucher value. In this implementation the acquirer is associated with the value transfer provider . And the transaction request includes the account number for the consumer s payment account and the value to be transferred to the payment account from the voucher. In turn the acquirer communicates the transaction request through the payment network to the issuer e.g. through a credit card payment system using the MasterCard interchange etc. . The issuer then processes the transaction request and if valid e.g. if the VID and the voucher value match data generated by the voucher provider when the voucher was purchased etc. approves the request and transfers the voucher value to the consumer s payment account. The issuer then communicates an authorization response containing the updated value balance of the payment account back to the value transfer provider again through the payment network and the acquirer . And when the authorization response is received the value transfer provider confirms to the consumer that the voucher value has been transferred to the consumer s payment account.

As also shown in in connection with a cash based transaction for providing value to the consumer s payment account the consumer initially contacts the merchant e.g. in person with a request e.g. a transfer request a transaction request etc. to provide value to his her account. The merchant collects the desired value from the consumer to be provided to the payment account in the form of a cash payment and enters the value into a point of sale POS terminal. The merchant also enters the directory number for the consumer s mobile device into the POS terminal for use in identifying the consumer s payment account. The merchant then communicates via the POS terminal the request to the acquirer for the transfer. In this implementation of the system the acquirer is associated with the merchant . And the request includes the consumer s directory number and the value to be transferred to the consumer s payment account.

In one implementation of the cash based transaction after receiving the request from the merchant the acquirer transmits the request via the network to the value transfer provider . For example the acquirer may directly contact e.g. call text etc. the value transfer provider via the value transfer provider s website or via an API associated with the value transfer provider to communicate the request. Or the acquirer may transmit the request to the value transfer provider via the payment network through an ISO 8583 message etc. When the transfer request is received the value transfer provider communicates a conversion request to the conversion engine via the network for the account number of the consumer s payment account. In particular and as previously described the value transfer provider communicates the consumer s directory number to the conversion engine as part of the request and the conversion engine then maps or identifies in the data structure the account number of the consumer s payment account based on the directory number. The conversion engine then communicates the identified account number back to the value transfer provider via the network .

In another implementation of the cash based transaction after receiving the request from the merchant the acquirer communicates the conversion request to the conversion engine via the network for the account number of the consumer s payment account. In similar fashion to that previously described the acquirer communicates the directory number to the conversion engine as part of the request and the conversion engine then identifies or maps the account number of the consumer s payment account based on the directory number. The conversion engine then communicates the identified account number back to the acquirer via the network . And the acquirer then submits the request to the value transfer provider via the network now including the account number for the consumer s payment account and the value to be transferred to the account.

In connection with either of the above implementations of the cash based transactions the value transfer provider next generates a transaction request based on the consumer s request received from the acquirer and communicates it through the payment network e.g. via the acquirer etc. to the issuer e.g. through the credit card payment system using the MasterCard interchange etc. . The transaction request includes the account number for the consumer s payment account and the value to be transferred to the consumer s payment account. The issuer then processes the transaction request and if valid e.g. if the payment account is valid etc. approves the request and transfers the desired value to the consumer s payment account. The issuer then communicates an authorization response containing the updated value balance of the payment account back to the merchant again through the payment network and the acquirer . And when the authorization response is received the merchant confirms to the consumer e.g. via the POS terminal etc. that the value has been transferred to the consumer s payment account and provides the consumer with a receipt indicating the transaction details e.g. the value amount provided to the consumer s payment account the payment account balance etc. .

Once value is provided to the payment account associated with the virtual wallet by either the voucher based transaction or the cash based transaction the virtual wallet via the mobile device etc. can be used in a payment transaction for example as follows. The consumer presents the mobile device to the merchant or another merchant . In response the merchant reads the account number for the consumer s payment account from the mobile device and in some cases requests a personal identification number PIN to authorize the transaction and communicates via the network an authorization request including details of the transaction to the payment network via the acquirer e.g. using the MasterCard interchange etc. . The payment network submits the authorization request to the issuer . The issuer then provides a response to the authorization request e.g. authorizing or rejecting the request to the payment network and the response is provided back through the acquirer to the merchant . The transaction is then completed by the merchant if the response includes an approval. If approved the merchant next communicates to the payment network via the acquirer a clearing request for payment from the issuer . The payment network in turn communicates the clearing request to the issuer and funds are then transferred to the acquirer for clearing with the merchant .

While a single consumer is shown in the system of it should be appreciated that the system can accommodate multiple different consumers Likewise while one merchant is shown in the system of it should be appreciated that any number of merchants may be included and accommodated by the system . Further while a single acquirer is shown in the system associated with both the value transfer provider and the merchant it should be appreciated that any number of acquirers may be included in the system e.g. one acquirer associated with the value transfer provider and another acquirer associated with the merchant etc. .

The system and its components however should not be considered to be limited to the computing device as described below as different computing devices and or arrangements of computing devices may be used. In addition different components and or arrangements of components may be used in other computing devices. Further in various exemplary embodiments the computing device may include multiple computing devices located in close proximity or distributed over a geographic region. Additionally each computing device may be coupled to a network e.g. the Internet an intranet a private or public LAN WAN mobile network telecommunication networks combinations thereof or other suitable network etc. that is either part of the network or separate therefrom.

The exemplary computing device includes a processor and a memory that is coupled to the processor . The processor may include without limitation one or more processing units e.g. in a multi core configuration etc. including a general purpose central processing unit CPU a microcontroller a reduced instruction set computer RISC processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic circuit PLC a gate array and or any other circuit or processor capable of the functions described herein. The above examples are exemplary only and thus are not intended to limit in any way the definition and or meaning of processor.

The memory as described herein is one or more devices that enable information such as executable instructions and or other data to be stored and retrieved. The memory may include one or more computer readable media such as without limitation dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM solid state devices flash drives CD ROMs thumb drives floppy disks tapes flash drives hard disks and or any other type of volatile or nonvolatile physical or tangible computer readable media. The memory may be configured to store without limitation voucher data e.g. account data for the voucher provider VIDs for vouchers issued by the voucher provider voucher values for the issued vouchers etc. directory numbers for mobile devices payment account data for consumers data structures of directory number payment account number conversion tables payment transaction data data for voucher providers and or other types of data suitable for use as described herein etc. Furthermore in various embodiments computer executable instructions may be stored in the memory for execution by the processor to cause the processor to perform one or more of the functions described herein such that the memory is a physical tangible and non transitory computer readable media. It should be appreciated that the memory may include a variety of different memories each implemented in one or more of the functions or processes described herein.

In the exemplary embodiment the computing device includes a display device that is coupled to the processor however it should be appreciated that the computing device could include other output devices etc. . The display device outputs to a user e.g. the consumer individuals associated with the value transfer provider individuals associated with the voucher provider individuals associated with the acquirer individuals associated with the payment network individuals associated with the issuer individuals associated with the merchant etc. by for example displaying and or otherwise outputting information such as but not limited to voucher data e.g. account data for the voucher provider VIDs for vouchers issued by the voucher provider voucher values for the issued vouchers etc. mobile device directory numbers payment account data for consumers directory number payment account number conversion tables payment transaction data and or any other type of data. It should be further appreciated that various interfaces e.g. webpages etc. may be displayed at computing device and in particular at display device to display such information etc. And in some cases the computing device may cause the interfaces to be displayed at the display device of another computing device including for example a server hosting a website e.g. the website associated with the value transfer provider the conversion engine etc. having multiple webpages etc. Display device may include without limitation a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display and or an electronic ink display. In some embodiments display device includes multiple devices.

The computing device also includes an input device that receives input from the user. The input device is coupled to the processor and may include for example a keyboard a pointing device a mouse a stylus a touch sensitive panel e.g. a touch pad or a touch screen etc. another computing device and or an audio input device. Further in various exemplary embodiments a touch screen such as that included in a tablet a smartphone or similar device behaves as both display device and input device .

In addition the illustrated computing device also includes a network interface coupled to the processor and the memory . The network interface may include without limitation a wired network adapter a wireless network adapter a mobile telecommunications adapter or other device capable of communicating to one or more different networks including the network . In some exemplary embodiments the computing device includes the processor and one or more network interfaces incorporated into or with the processor .

Further for purposes of illustration the exemplary method is described herein with reference to the computing device . And just as the methods herein should not be understood to be limited to the exemplary system or the exemplary computing device the systems and the computing devices herein should not be understood to be limited to the exemplary method .

In one implementation of the method when desired to provide value to the payment account associated with the consumer s virtual wallet e.g. load reload etc. the payment account the consumer purchases a voucher from the merchant with a desired value to be placed in the payment account. As part of the purchase transaction the merchant collects funds e.g. cash etc. from the consumer corresponding to the value of the voucher. In addition the merchant communicates a VID for the voucher and a value of the voucher to the voucher provider via the network . Using this data the voucher provider activates the voucher in the desired value and communicates via the network an activation confirmation back to the merchant . The voucher provider also stores data for the activated voucher in the memory of the computing device associated therewith for subsequent use verification. The merchant then provides a voucher activation receipt to the consumer indicating the VID and the voucher value.

As shown in to transfer the value of the voucher to the payment account associated with the virtual wallet in total or in part the consumer submits a load request to the value transfer provider via the network for a load transaction and the value transfer provider receives the request at the computing device at . In connection with the request the value transfer provider causes e.g. the processor of the computing device of the value transfer provider causes etc. an interface to display at the consumer s computing device for use in collecting data for the transaction. In so doing the value transfer provider receives from the consumer either together e.g. in the single request etc. or individually e.g. in multiple separate requests etc. the VID at and the directory number for the consumer s mobile device at .

After receiving the load request from the consumer at the value transfer provider performs a check of the validity and or a check of the value of the voucher at before further processing the request. In so doing the value transfer provider communicates data relating to the voucher i.e. the VID as received from the consumer to the voucher provider via the network for verification. If the voucher data is valid the voucher provider communicates a confirmation back to the value transfer provider that the voucher is valid. Alternatively if the voucher data is invalid e.g. if the VID is invalid if the voucher value valid is invalid etc. the voucher provider then communicates a warning back to the value transfer provider .

Also after receiving the request from the consumer the value transfer provider determines the account number for the consumer s payment account at . In this implementation of the method this includes transmitting or submitting a conversion request at to the conversion engine via the network for the account number. The conversion request includes the consumer s directory number as received by the value transfer provider at . In response the conversion engine searches in the data structure for the directory number and then maps or correlates at the directory number to the consumer s account number e.g. via conversion tables etc. . If the consumer s directory number is found in the data structure the conversion engine communicates the corresponding account number back to the value transfer provider via the network . However if the consumer s directory number is not found in the data structure the conversion engine then communicates a failure notice to the value transfer provider .

Next the value transfer provider generates a transaction request at and communicates it via the network to the acquirer for the value to be added to the consumer s payment account. The transaction request includes the account number for the consumer s payment account as received from the conversion engine at and the value to be transferred to the payment account. In turn the acquirer then communicates the transaction request through the payment network to the issuer . The issuer then processes the payment request and if valid e.g. if the VID and the voucher value match data generated by the voucher provider when the voucher was purchased etc. approves the request and transfers the voucher value to the consumer s payment account. Following the transfer the issuer communicates an authorization response containing the updated value balance of the payment account back to the value transfer provider again through the payment network and the acquirer . And the value transfer provider then confirms to the consumer at that the voucher value has been transferred to the consumer s payment account. The consumer s mobile wallet can then be used in connection with a payment transaction for example at the merchant as described above in connection with the system .

In another implementation of the method the consumer contacts the merchant e.g. in person with a load request to provide value to his her account using cash. The merchant collects the desired value from the consumer to be provided to the payment account in the form of a cash payment and enters the value into the POS terminal. The merchant also enters the directory number for the consumer s mobile device into the POS terminal for use in identifying the consumer s payment account. The merchant communicates via the POS terminal the load request to the acquirer via the network for the value to be loaded. And the acquirer then transmits the load request to the value transfer provider .

As shown in the value transfer provider receives the load request from the acquirer at the computing device at e.g. via the API associated with the value transfer provider etc. . The load request includes the value to be transferred to the consumer s payment account at and the consumer s directory number at as received from the consumer . The value transfer provider then determines the account number for the consumer s payment account at based on the directory number in the load request. As previously described this includes transmitting or submitting a conversion request at to the conversion engine via the network for the account number. The conversion request includes the consumer s directory number as received by the value transfer provider from the acquirer at . In response the conversion engine searches in the data structure for the directory number and then maps or correlates at the directory number to the consumer s account number e.g. via the conversion tables etc. . If the consumer s directory number is found in the data structure the conversion engine communicates the corresponding account number back to the value transfer provider via the network . However if the consumer s directory number is not found in the data structure the conversion engine then communicates a failure notice to the value transfer provider .

Next the value transfer provider generates a transaction request at and communicates it via the network to the payment network e.g. through the acquirer etc. for the value to be added to the consumer s payment account. The transaction request includes the account number for the consumer s payment account as received from the conversion engine at and the value to be transferred to the payment account. In turn the payment network communicates the transaction request to the issuer . The issuer then processes the transaction request and if valid approves the request and transfers the value to the consumer s payment account. Following the transfer the issuer communicates an authorization response containing the updated value balance of the payment account back through the payment network and the acquirer . The authorization response may then be transmitted to the value transfer provider who then confirms to the consumer at that the voucher value has been transferred to the consumer s payment account e.g. via an interface displayed at a computing device associated with the consumer etc. . Or the authorization response may be transmitted to the merchant who then confirms to the consumer at that the value has been transferred to the consumer s payment account. In either case the consumer s mobile wallet can then be used in connection with a payment transaction for example at the merchant as described above in connection with the system .

With continued reference to in a further implementation of the method the consumer again contacts the merchant e.g. in person with a load request to provide value to his her account using cash. The merchant collects the desired value from the consumer to be provided to the payment account in the form of a cash payment and enters the value into the POS terminal. The merchant also enters the directory number for the consumer s mobile device into the POS terminal for use in identifying the consumer s payment account. The merchant then communicates via the POS terminal the load request to the acquirer as part of via the network for the value to be loaded. The load request includes the value to be loaded to the consumer s payment account at and the consumer s directory number at .

In this implementation as part of determining the account number for the consumer s payment account at the acquirer transmits a conversion request at to the conversion engine via the network for the account number of the consumer s payment account. The conversion request includes the consumer s directory number as received by the acquirer at . In response the conversion engine searches in the data structure for the directory number and then maps or correlates at the directory number to the consumer s account number e.g. via the conversion tables etc. . If the consumer s directory number is found in the data structure the conversion engine communicates the corresponding account number back to the acquirer via the network . However if the consumer s directory number is not found in the data structure the conversion engine then communicates a failure notice to the acquirer . Assuming a failure notice is not received the acquirer may then transmit the load request to the merchant via the network now including the account number for the consumer s payment account and the value to be transferred to the account. And the merchant receives the request at the computing device and may then transmit a corresponding transaction request e.g. at in method etc. to the acquirer and the process continues as described next . Or the acquirer may simply generate a transaction request at upon receiving the account number for the consumer s payment account and transmit the transaction request to the payment network as described next and in lieu of transmitting the load request with the consumer s converted account number to the merchant .

As generally described in the previous implementations of the method the acquirer generates or in some exemplary embodiments forwards from the merchant a transaction request at and communicates the transaction request via the network to the payment network for the value to be added to the consumer s payment account e.g. through the value transfer provider etc. . The transaction request includes the account number for the consumer s payment account as received from the conversion engine at and the value to be transferred to the payment account. In turn the payment network communicates the transaction request to the issuer . The issuer then processes the transaction request and if valid approves the request and transfers the value to the consumer s payment account. Following the transfer the issuer communicates an authorization response containing the updated value balance of the payment account back to the merchant again through the payment network and the acquirer . And the merchant then confirms to the consumer at that the value has been transferred to the consumer s payment account. The consumer s mobile wallet can then be used in connection with a payment transaction for example at the merchant as described above in connection with the system .

In some embodiments the computing device associated with the consumer includes a mobile computing device with an application for transferring value to the payment account associated with the consumer e.g. in accordance with the system the method etc. . For example the memory of the computing device and specifically the non transitory computer readable media includes computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to transfer the value to the consumer s payment account. For example using the application which may communicate with the computing device of the value transfer provider via any available communication type e.g. email text message etc. the consumer may request the transfer view transfer confirmations and view balance details of the payment account.

Again and as previously described it should be appreciated that the functions described herein in some embodiments may be described in computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable media and executable by one or more processors. The computer readable media is a non transitory computer readable storage medium. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

It should also be appreciated that one or more aspects of the present disclosure transform a general purpose computing device into a special purpose computing device when configured to perform the functions methods and or processes described herein.

As will be appreciated based on the foregoing specification the above described embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented using computer programming or engineering techniques including computer software firmware hardware or any combination or subset thereof wherein the technical effect may be achieved by performing at least one of the following steps a receiving a load request to transfer value to a payment account associated with a consumer the load request including the value to be transferred and a directory number for a mobile device associated with the consumer b when the value to be transferred is associated with a voucher confirming validity of the voucher c determining an account number for the consumer s payment account at the computing device based on the directory number for the consumer s mobile device d generating a transaction request indicating the value to transfer to the payment account and the account number for the consumer s payment account and e receiving a transfer authorization from an acquirer or issuer in response to the transaction request.

With that said exemplary embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. In some example embodiments well known processes well known device structures and well known technologies are not described in detail.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular exemplary embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to coupled to associated with or included with another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to or associated with the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The foregoing description of exemplary embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the disclosure and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the disclosure.

