---

title: System and methods for soiled garment detection and notification
abstract: Aspects of the present disclosure involve an apparatus, systems, and methods for soiled garment detection and notification. The method may include receiving a measure of odor being released from a garment from a soiled garment detection apparatus. The method may further include determining that the measure of odor exceeds an acceptable odor threshold. A message may then be sent to a user device associated with the garment (e.g. a device of the owner of the garment) in response to determining that the measure of odor exceeds the threshold. The message may include a notification that the garment is soiled, and a suggested course of action to improve the measure of odor released by the garment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613516&OS=09613516&RS=09613516
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09613516
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150319
---
The present application relates to data processing. In particular example embodiments relate to systems and methods for soiled garment detection and notification.

Clothing manufacturers such as high end blue jean manufacturers recommend avoiding laundering certain types of garments after each wear and instead recommend that garments be laundered much less frequently e.g. every six months . Further seasonal garments and other outerwear such as heavy jackets often go through many wear cycles without being laundered if at all. Moreover energy coconscious consumers may wear garments many times before laundering in an effort to avoid frequent use of laundering devices e.g. clothes washers and dryers that use large amounts of energy. Such laundering strategies may cause infrequently laundered garments to become soiled and malodorous which would otherwise signal the need to launder the garment. However the odor of the garment may not be apparent to the garment s wearer as the wearer may have become accustomed to the smell over time.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that these examples are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the illustrated embodiments. On the contrary they are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the scope of the disclosure. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. Embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details.

Aspects of the present disclosure involve an apparatus systems and methods for detecting soiled garments and providing alerts relating thereto. For the purpose of the present disclosure the term soiled is used to refer to a garment that is unclean and in need of laundering. For the purpose of the present disclosure the term launder is used in various tenses to refer to a process of making garments e.g. clothes or household linens e.g. sheets and towels ready for use including the steps of sorting washing drying folding hanging ironing and steaming. Further as used herein the term launderer refers to a person performing or engaged in the process of laundering whether through utilization of one or more laundering devices or by hand. The term laundering device refers to any device or piece of equipment used in the process of laundering. Laundering devices may for example include washing machines also referred to as a laundry machine a clothes washer or simply a washer clothes dryers also referred to as a tumble dryer a drying machine or simply a dryer clothes iron also referred to as a flatiron or simply an iron a steamer or a dry cleaning machine.

Example embodiments involve a controller in communication with one or more soiled garment detection apparatus. The soiled garment detection apparatus may be included as part of or affixed to a clothes hanger or laundering device and is configured to measure an amount of odor released from a garment. The controller uses odor information received from the soiled garment detection apparatus to determine whether the garment is soiled and therefore in need of laundering. Upon determining that a garment has been soiled the controller causes a message e.g. a push notification to be provided to a device of the owner to remind the owner to launder the garment. Further the controller may cause a human perceivable alert e.g. a flashing light to be provided by the soiled garment detection apparatus associated with the garment to alert the owner of the garment that the garment is soiled.

As shown the soiled garment detection and notification system includes a controller in communication with a plurality of soiled garment detection apparatus over a network . The network may be a personal area network implemented for example using the ZigBee data transmission protocol. The plurality of soiled garment detection apparatus is associated with a collection of garments comprising garments . More specifically an instance of the soiled garment detection apparatus is associated with each of the garments by virtue of each of the garments being placed within range of the soiled garment detection apparatus which in the embodiment illustrated in is in the form of a clothes hanger. Although the soiled garment detection apparatus is illustrated to resemble a clothes hanger suitable for hanging the collection of garments in a closet for example the soiled garment detection apparatus is not limited to such a structure and may in other embodiments take another form that is suitable for inclusion in dresser drawers or other storage components used to store garments.

Each instance of the soiled garment detection apparatus is configured to produce a plurality of output signals e.g. electrical signals that collectively comprise output data also referred to herein as sensor data that corresponds to or may be correlated with a measure of odor being released from an associated garment. The soiled garment detection apparatus comprises one or more sensors configured to transmit a measurable output signal to collectively form the output data produced by the soiled garment detection apparatus . The output data produced by the soiled garment detection apparatus is transmitted over the network to the controller for processing for purposes of soiled garment detection. The controller is also responsible for tracking and recording which instances of the soiled garment detection apparatus correspond to particular garments of the collection of garments . In some embodiments a particular garment is to be used with a particular instance of the soiled garment detection apparatus throughout the lifetime of its use so as to maintain consistent readings. In other embodiments the controller may track the garments individually using an unique identifier of the garment and in these embodiments the garments need not be used with the same instance of the soiled garment detection apparatus .

As shown the controller comprises a receiver an analysis module a transmitter a local data repository and an interface module all configured to communicate with each other e.g. via a bus shared memory a switch or application programming interfaces APIs . It will be appreciated that one or more these various components of the controller may be combined into a single component. As an example the transmitter and receiver may be combined e.g. to share common circuitry or a single housing to form a transceiver. Further in some embodiments one or more components may be omitted and additional components may also be included.

The receiver is configured to interrogate each of the soiled garment detection apparatuses and receive data therefrom. The data received from the soiled garment detection apparatus includes the output data from the one or more sensors e.g. the measure of odor and in some embodiments an identifier of the corresponding garment .

The analysis module is responsible for processing received output data to determine whether a particular garment is soiled and in need of laundering. To this end the analysis module analyzes the output data to determine whether the measure of odor released is above a threshold level of acceptable odor. If the odor released by the garment is at or below the threshold level of acceptable odor the analysis module determines that the garment is clean or at least not in need of laundering e.g. not soiled . On the other hand if the analysis module determines that the odor released from the garment is above the threshold level for acceptable odor the analysis module determines that the garment is soiled.

Consistent with some embodiments the measure of odor released by each of garments is included in the output data produced by the soiled garment detection apparatus and may include or be based on a concentration of certain particles e.g. ammonia or amino acids released by the garments that commonly produce foul smelling odors especially body odor. Accordingly the analysis module may determine that the measure of odor released by the garments is above the acceptable threshold level of odor based on the concentration of foul odor causing particles released by the garments being above a particular threshold.

In some embodiments the threshold level of acceptable odor may be configured by an administrator e.g. a launderer of the collection of garments or other user such that the odor level released by the garments does not exceed a fairly standard level of acceptable odor e.g. no foul odor or such that the odor released by the garments does not exceed an odor preference of the user.

In some instances a garment may release an odor that is although not foul or indicative of a soiled garment detectable through human olfaction. For example leather garments have a very distinct although not foul odor. Accordingly in some embodiments determining that a garment from the collection of garments is soiled e.g. that the odor released by the garment is above an acceptable threshold level of odor may involve storing an initial set of output data from the soiled garment detection apparatus to establish a baseline level of odor released by the each of the garments . The initial set of output data is received when each of the garments is clean or recently laundered as indicated by appropriate user input . In this manner the analysis module is enabled to recognize when the odor being released by each of the garments has deviated from the normal odor released by the garments and to what degree. In some embodiments the threshold level of acceptable odor may be set according to an acceptable deviation from the baseline odor level.

Consistent with some embodiments the controller may establish and store e.g. in the local repository a dedicated olfactory profile for each of the garments in the collection of garments . The olfactory profile may include the baseline level of odor along with other information regarding a concentration of particles normally released by the garment. The olfactory profile may be based on information about the garment received from an intelligent garment tag associated with the garments or received from the user via interface provided by the interface module . The olfactory profile specifies various concentrations of particles released by the garment by virtue of its fabric type or other intrinsic qualities. In this way the analysis module may be enabled to make informed determinations of whether the odor released by the garment is above an acceptable threshold level because the analysis module is able to recognize that a certain amount of odor e.g. a concentration of certain particles is expected regardless of the state of the garment.

The analysis module may track and record the output data corresponding to each garment of the collection of garments throughout the lifetime of the garment. This information may be stored by the controller in the local repository along with the determined laundering status e.g. clean or soiled . By tracking the sensor data over the lifetime of a garment the analysis module is able to track the degradation of the garment that occurs from wearing the garment. In some instances the analysis module may determine that a particular garment has exceeded a threshold level of degradation and in response the analysis module works in conjunction with the interface module to provide a user with a notification that the garment has degraded and should be replaced.

Further in addition to determining whether a particular garment is simply clean or soiled the analysis module may analyze the output data to determine the degree to which a garment is either clean or soiled. The analysis module may make this determination based on the tracked output data. For example the analysis module may determine the degree to which a garment is either clean or soiled based on how far above or below the measure of odor is from the predefined threshold or the baseline odor level. The degree to which the odor released by each of the garments exceeds the threshold level for acceptable odor e.g. the degree to which the garment is soiled may be tracked and used in determining the urgency with which the garment is to be laundered. In other words the analysis module recognizes that the worse a garment smells the more urgent the need to launder the garment. The degree to which the odor released by each of the garments is below the threshold level for acceptable odor e.g. the degree to which the garment is clean may be tracked and used to provide the user with routine reminders to keep the user apprised of the cleanliness of his garments which allows the user to anticipate future laundry cycles.

Upon determining that a garment from the collection of garments is soiled the analysis module works in conjunction with the interface module to transmit a message to a device e.g. a smartphone of a user associated with the collection of garments e.g. an owner of the garments to notify the user of the soiled garment and to remind the user to launder the garment. Further the analysis module may work in conjunction with the transmitter to provide control data to the soiled garment detection apparatus that causes the soiled garment detection apparatus to provide a soiled garment alert.

The transmitter is responsible for providing e.g. transmitting control data to instances of the soiled garment detection apparatus . Accordingly the transmitter may comprise an antenna capable of wirelessly transmitting the control data to the soiled garment detection apparatus . The control data once received by the soiled garment detection apparatus causes an alert component of the soiled garment detection apparatus to provide a soiled garment alert.

The local data repository of the controller is a machine readable medium that stores information about the collection of garments . For example the local data repository stores laundering information about each garment in the collection of garments along with an identifier of the corresponding soiled garment detection apparatus . In particular the local data repository stores a record of the laundering state e.g. clean or soiled of each the garments as determined by the analysis module . Accordingly for garments that the analysis module determines are releasing an odor below the acceptable threshold level of odor the local data repository stores a record associated with an identifier of the garment indicating that the garment is clean. Conversely for garments that the analysis module determines are releasing an odor above the acceptable threshold level of odor the local data repository stores a record associated with an identifier of the garment indicating that the garment is soiled. In some embodiments the local data repository may store a record of the output associated with the garment throughout the lifetime of the garment along with an indicator of the degree to which the garment is either clean or soiled.

The interface module provides users of the soiled garment detection and notification system with access to laundering information in the local data repository . Further the interface module is responsible for the generation and presentation of a number of graphical user interfaces GUI to present information to users. For example the interface module may generate and cause presentation of a GUI to present laundering information about the collection of garments stored in the local data repository of the controller . The interface module may cause presentation of such a GUI by providing a user device with a set of instructions that cause the user device to present the GUI.

The interface module is also responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of the soiled garment detection and notification system . Such messages may include a notification that a particular garment is soiled along with a suggested course of action to improve the odor being released by the garment e.g. a suggestion to launder the garment . The interface module may utilize any one of a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example the interface module may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. voice over IP VoIP messages via the wired e.g. the Internet plain old telephone service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

Although the controller is illustrated to be in communication with three instances of the soiled garment detection apparatus it shall be appreciated that the controller may be in communication with fewer or additional instances of the soiled garment detection apparatus . In this manner the controller may serve as a central hub for controlling and exchanging data with a plurality of soiled garment detection apparatus . However it shall be appreciated that in other embodiments the controller may be omitted and multiple instances of the soiled garment detection apparatus may communicate and exchange data without the need for the controller . Further while the controller is illustrated in to form a stand alone component it shall be appreciated that in other embodiments the controller may be implemented by a computer or be embedded in a laundering device e.g. washing machine or clothes dryer to provide additional functionality thereto. Moreover in some embodiments the controller may be embedded in an instance of the soiled garment detection apparatus . Additionally as is understood by skilled artisans in the relevant computer and Internet related arts each component e.g. a module illustrated in may represent a hardware component a set of hardware components or a set of logic e.g. executable software instructions and the corresponding hardware e.g. memory and processor for executing the set of logic.

The soiled garment detection apparatus is illustrated in as including one or more sensor s a transmitter a receiver and an alert component all configured to communicate with each other e.g. via a bus shared memory a switch or application programming interfaces APIs . It will be appreciated that one or more these various components of the soiled garment detection apparatus may be combined into a single component. As an example the transmitter and receiver may be combined e.g. to share common circuitry or a single housing to form a transceiver. Further in some embodiments one or more components may be omitted and additional components may also be included.

The one or more sensor s are configured to respectively produce an output signal e.g. an electrical signal that corresponds to or may be correlated with a measure of odor released from garments. In particular the sensor s may include an olfactory sensor configured to measure a concentration e.g. a number of particles per unit volume of certain foul odor causing particles or compounds that may be released by a garment. Body odor also known as B.O. brohmhidrosis osmidrosis and ozochrotia for example is a result of the breakdown of proteins into acids e.g. propionic acid or isovaleric acid by bacteria. Accordingly by measuring the concentration of such particles e.g. acids on or near a garment the olfactory sensors can provide the controller with an indication of the odor being released by the garment and thus an indication of whether the garment is soiled. Collectively the output signals from the one or more olfactory sensors form olfactory sensor data also referred to as output data . The olfactory sensor s may employ a number of various sensors and detection techniques including for example conductive polymer odor sensors tin oxide gas sensors quartz crystal micro balance sensors or physical litmus reactions.

In some embodiments the sensor s may include one or more moisture sensors configured to detect moisture levels of garments and chemical concentrations of the moisture causing agents. Similar to the olfactory sensors the output provided by the moisture sensors e.g. a moisture level may provide the controller with an indication of whether a garment is soiled. The moisture sensors may be employed in conjunction with or in the alternative to the olfactory sensors.

In some embodiments the sensor s may include one or more visual sensors e.g. ultra violet UV sensors or photo sensors configured to measure and detect stains and other discoloring present on the garments. The visual sensors may be employed in conjunction with or in the alternative to the olfactory sensors or the moisture sensors. In these embodiments the soiled garment detection and notification system may further include one or more light emitting sources e.g. ultra violet light source positioned to emit light on the collection of garments and the visual sensors e.g. included as part of the sensor s may be configured and positioned such that they are able detect the light reflected back from each of the garments . The resulting output e.g. the measure of light reflected back from the garments may be used by the controller to determine whether stains or other discoloring is present on the garment. In some embodiments the sensor s may include a camera configured to capture images of the garments while the light emitting source is emitting light on the garments and the images may be transmitted to the controller for analysis to determine whether any one of the garments are soiled. In some embodiments the controller may also use images produced by the camera to individually identify each garment of the collection of garments by performing image recognition processing on the images.

The transmitter is configured to transmit information to the controller . For example the transmitter provides olfactory sensor data produced by the one or more sensor s to the controller . Additionally the transmitter may transmit an identifier of a garment along with other information about the garment to the controller .

The transmitter may comprise an antenna capable of wirelessly transmitting the sensor data in one or many various frequencies and protocols over the network . For example the transmitter may comprise an antenna capable of transmitting the sensor data using a high level personal area network protocol such as ZigBee. As another example the transmitter may comprise an antenna capable of transmitting a modulated radio frequency RF signal. In yet another example the transmitter may comprise an antenna capable of transmitting the sensor data using a low energy data transmission protocol such as Bluetooth Low Energy BLE .

The receiver is configured to receive control data from the controller that causes the alert component to provide an alert. Accordingly the receiver may comprise an antenna capable of receiving data over the network in a variety of protocols and frequencies. For example the controller may provide the receiver with control data using a high level personal area network protocol such as ZigBee. In another example the control data received by the receiver is provided as modulated RF signals. In yet another example the data received by the receiver is transmitted using a low energy data transmission protocol such as BLE.

In some embodiments the receiver may also be configured to obtain data from intelligent garment tags affixed or otherwise associated with garments. For example an intelligent garment tag may be affixed to the garment inside the collar at a location traditionally occupied by a printed clothing label. The intelligent garment tag stores information about the garment such as an identifier a color a fabric and laundering information. Accordingly the receiver may be employed to obtain an identifier of the garment along information related to the garment s color and fabric and laundering of the garment. The intelligent garment tag may be implemented using a radio frequency identification RFID device to exchange such information using radio frequency RF signals. Accordingly the receiver may work in conjunction with the transmitter to transmit a request or interrogatory signal e.g. an encoded radio signal to an intelligent garment tag and in response the receiver is provided with an identifier of the garment and other additional information.

The alert component is configured to provide soiled garment alerts. The alerts provided by the alert component may be one of several types of human detectable sensory alerts including visual or luminescent alerts e.g. flashing lights an auditory alert e.g. a beep or other sound or a haptic alert e.g. a vibration . Accordingly the alert component may comprise one or more of the following to provide human detectable sensory alerts a light emitting component e.g. a light emitting diode LED or light bulb an electroacoustic transducer e.g. a speaker or a haptic actuator.

At operation the receiver receives sensor data from the soiled garment detection apparatus . The sensor data may comprise olfactory sensor data that includes a measure of the concentration of foul odor causing particles released by a garment and as such provides a measure of odor being released by a garment. At operation the receiver receives identification data from the soiled garment detection apparatus . The identification data includes an identifier of the garment to distinguish the garment from other garments in a collection of garments e.g. collection of garments such as a group of garments stored in a closet. In some embodiments the identifier may be first obtained e.g. via RFID by the soiled garment detection apparatus from an intelligent garment tag affixed to the garment. In some embodiments each garment in the collection of garments may be initially assigned an identifier that is linked to the particular instance of the soiled garment detection apparatus being used to monitor the garment. In some embodiments the identifier of the garment may be obtained based on an analysis of image data received from a camera included as part of the soiled garment detection and notification system .

At operation the analysis module analyzes the sensor data to determine whether the measure of odor released by the garment exceeds an acceptable threshold level of odor. For example the analysis module may determine whether the concentration of foul odor causing particles such as propionic and isovaleric acids is above an acceptable threshold. The acceptable threshold level of odor may for example be based on user preferences a comparison with a baseline odor measurement or information in the garment s olfactory profile or various combinations thereof. In embodiments where the acceptable threshold level of odor is based on user preferences the interface module may provide a user interface for establishing user preferences with respect to the acceptable threshold level of odor.

In embodiments in which a moisture sensor is employed the analysis module may analyze the sensor data to determine whether the moisture level of the garment exceeds an acceptable threshold. Further in embodiments in which a visual sensor is employed the analysis module may analyze the sensor data to determine whether the amount of discoloration of the garment exceeds an acceptable threshold.

In some embodiments the analysis module may determine whether the measure of odor released by the garment exceeds the acceptable threshold level of odor by comparing the current set of sensor data e.g. the data received at operation with a baseline odor level established from an initial set of sensor data received while the garment is freshly laundered e.g. clean and unsoiled and determining that the current set of olfactory sensor data deviates e.g. is greater than the baseline odor level by a predetermined percentage. Accordingly the determination of whether the measure of odor exceeds the acceptable threshold may include receiving an indication from a user that a garment is freshly laundered e.g. submitted via a user interface provided by the interface module and storing an initial set of sensor data e.g. received from the soiled garment detection apparatus to establish the baseline odor level. The establishing of the baseline odor level may further include providing a user interface to input information about a particular garment e.g. fabric size that may impact the baseline odor level and receiving the information entered through the user interface. The user interface may also be used to specify the predefined acceptable level of odor.

If the analysis module determines that the measure of odor released by the garment exceeds the acceptable threshold level the analysis module causes the soiled garment detection apparatus to provide a soiled garment alert at operation . Accordingly the analysis module may work in conjunction with the transmitter to transmit a set of instructions to the soiled garment detection apparatus that when interpreted cause the alert component of the soiled garment detection apparatus to provide a human detectable alert.

At operation the interface module transmits a soiled garment notification message e.g. a push notification to a user device e.g. a smartphone of a user responsible for e.g. an owner the garment . The soiled garment notification message may include a notification that the garment is soiled a suggested course of action and the identifier of the garment to assist the user in identifying the garment. For example the suggested course of action may be a reminder to launder the garment. As another example the suggested course of action may be to switch laundry detergents to a brand that may be more suited to reduce foul odors from being released by the garment e.g. a high concentration or extra strength detergent . In this example the message may also include an item recommendation for a different brand of laundry detergent to accomplish such foul odor reduction.

As an example is an interface diagram depicting a soiled garment notification message received by and displayed on a user device according to an example embodiment. Although the user device is illustrated in to be a smart phone it shall be appreciated that the user device may be any of a variety of other types of devices e.g. a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA a personal navigation device PND a handheld computer a desktop computer a laptop or netbook a wearable computing device a Global Positioning System GPS device a data enabled book reader or a video game system console . As shown the soiled garment notification message includes a notification that the garment is soiled the garment is indicated as being dirty a reminder to launder the garment Garment . . . needs to be laundered and an identifier of the garment Garment 8 .

Returning to at operation the controller uses the identifier of the garment to store a record of a laundering status e.g. clean or soiled of the garment in the local repository . The laundering status of the garment is based on the determination made at operation . In other words if the analysis module determines the odor released by the garment exceeds the acceptable threshold level of odor the garment is assigned the laundering status of soiled. Conversely if the analysis module determines the odor released by the garment is below the acceptable threshold level of odor the garment is assigned the laundering status of clean. Accordingly if the analysis module determines the odor released by the garment is below the acceptable threshold level of odor at operation the controller proceeds to directly store the laundering status of the garment at operation .

At operation the interface module generates and causes presentation of an interface e.g. on the user device to display the laundering status information of a collection of garments e.g. stored in the local repository . The interface may for example include identifiers of a plurality of garments a corresponding laundering status and additional laundering information.

As an example is an interface diagram depicting a portion of an interface displaying laundering information for a collection of garments according to an example embodiment. As shown the interface includes table which presents laundering information for a collection of garments e.g. the collection of garments . Identifiers of each garment are provided in column . Column includes a laundering status e.g. clean or soiled for each garment identified in column . Column includes additional laundering information related to the urgency with which soiled garments are to be laundered. The urgency with which soiled garments are to be laundered may for example depend on the degree to which the odor being released by the garment exceeds the acceptable level of odor. Accordingly in addition to determining whether the odor being released by a garment exceeds a threshold level for acceptable odor the analysis module also determines the degree to which the odor exceeds or is below the threshold.

In various embodiments the data exchanged within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or user interfaces UIs . The UIs may for example be specifically associated with a web client e.g. a browser executing on the user device and in communication with the network based marketplace . The UIs may also be associated with application executing on the user device such as a client application designed for interacting with the controller or the network based marketplace . The application may for example provide users with the ability to communicate with the controller monitor the laundering status of a collection of garments receive soiled garment and laundering notifications and receive product recommendations related to soiled garments.

The user device and the controller may interface with the network e.g. the Internet or wide area network WAN via a connection which may be any of a variety of types of connections. For example the connection may be a wireless fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.33x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. In another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

In some embodiments depending on the form and location of the user device the connection employed by the user device may be different than the connection employed by the controller . For example the connection of the user device may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such a connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 3 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or to other types of networks .

Turning specifically to the network based marketplace an API server and a web server are coupled to e.g. via wired or wireless interfaces and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to an application server . The application server may for example host one or more applications such as a marketplace application . The marketplace application provides a number of marketplace functions and services to users that access the network based marketplace . For example the marketplace application may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services.

As illustrated in the application server is coupled to a database server that facilitates access to the database . In some embodiments the database may include multiple databases that may be internal or external to the network based marketplace . The database stores data pertaining to various functions and aspects associated with the network system and its users. For example user accounts for users of the network based marketplace may be stored and maintained in the database .

Each user account may comprise user data that describes aspects of a particular user. The user data may include demographic data social data user preferences and financial information. The demographic data may for example include information describing one or more characteristics of a user. Demographic data may for example include gender age location information employment history education history contact information familial relations or user interests. The financial information may for example include private financial information of the user such as account number credential password device identifier user name phone number credit card information bank information transaction history or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by the user. The transaction history includes information related to transactions for goods or services collectively referred to as items or products that may be offered for sale by merchants using marketplace services provided by the network based marketplace . The transaction history information may for example include a description of a product purchased by the user an identifier of the product a category to which the product belongs a purchase price a quantity or a number of bids.

It shall be appreciated that although the various functional components of the network system are discussed in the singular sense multiple instances of one of more of the various functional components may be employed. Moreover while the network system shown in employs a client server architecture the present inventive subject matter is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in an event driven distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example.

The marketplace application may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the marketplace application is shown to include a publication module and an auction module which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The auction module may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding.

A fixed price module may support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

A store module may allow sellers to group their product listings e.g. goods and or services within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the sellers. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller. In one embodiment the listings or transactions associated with the virtual store and its features may be provided to one or more users.

Navigation of the network based marketplace may be facilitated by a navigation module . For example the navigation module may inter alia enable keyword searches of listings published via the network based marketplace . The navigation module may also allow users via a sales associated UI to browse various category catalog inventory social network and review data structures within the network based marketplace . Various other navigation modules e.g. an external search engine may be provided to supplement the search and browsing modules.

A recommendation module provides item recommendation services and functions to users. The recommendation module may receive requests for recommendations and in turn provide a recommendation to the user based at least in part on information about the user maintained as part of a user account e.g. previous products purchased by the user a web page viewed by the user an item given favorable feedback by the user or items owned by the user . The recommendation module may also automatically generate and provide item recommendations based on sensor data provided by the controller . For example recommendations may be based on a concentration of certain odor causing particles indicated by the sensor data. Such recommendations may include one or more items e.g. products or services offered for sale that may replace the user s garments assist the user in laundering soiled garments improve an odor produced by the user or improve an odor released by the garment.

As an example upon receiving sensor data e.g. from the controller indicating that a particular garment is releasing a large concentration of odor causing particles the recommendation module may identify a garment made of natural fibers e.g. wool silk or cotton that may allow the skin of the garment wearer to better breathe which may result in better evaporation of sweat and thus fewer odor causing particles being released. The recommendation module may then generate an item recommendation for the garment wearer that includes the garment. As another example the recommendation module may identify and recommend a new garment to replace a garment that the analysis module has determined is too degraded for the user to continue to wear. As yet another example the recommendation module may suggest that a user sell a garment that is infrequently worn as determined by the sensor data corresponding to the garment throughout the lifetime of the garment .

A messaging module is responsible for generation and delivery of messages to users of the network system . Such messages may for example include item recommendations generated by the recommendation module . The messaging module may utilize any one of a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users e.g. e mail IM SMS text facsimile or voice messages . In some embodiments the messaging module may work in conjunction with the interface module of the controller to deliver messages to users.

At operation the application server receives sensor data produced by a soiled garment detection apparatus from the controller . In some embodiments the sensor data is received directly from the controller . The sensor data received by the application server may for example include a measure of a concentration of particles released by the garment. At operation the recommendation module parses the sensor data. For example the recommendation module may parse the sensor data to determine concentrations of certain odor causing particles e.g. propionic and isovaleric acid that are being released by the garment.

At operation the recommendation module generates an item recommendation based on the sensor data e.g. the concentration of the odor causing particles . The recommendation generated by the recommendation module may for example be based on concentrations of certain particles exceeding certain threshold levels or based on a garment exceeding a predefined level of degradation. In some instances the recommendation module may generate the item recommendation by identifying an item to assist with or employ in the process of laundering the garment e.g. laundry detergent . In some instances the recommendation module may generate the item recommendation by identifying an item offered for sale that may reduce or help to reduce the concentration of odor causing particles that are released by the garment. The identifying of items for use as an item recommendation may include accessing a lookup table that includes a list of products known to improve concentrations of certain particles produced by the human body.

As an example of the foregoing operation upon receiving sensor data e.g. from the controller indicating that a particular garment is releasing a large concentration of body odor causing particles the recommendation module may identify a particular deodorant that will help reduce the amount of body odor causing particles produced by a wearer of the garment e.g. by making the environment more difficult for bacteria which ultimately cause the release of odor causing particles to thrive . The recommendation module may then generate an item recommendation for the garment wearer that includes the deodorant.

At operation the messaging module transmits an item recommendation message to the user device . The item recommendation message may identify the item and include a link e.g. a uniform resource locator URL to a product listing e.g. published using the marketplace application from which the item may be purchased. The message may further include a rationale for providing the particular item in a recommendation e.g. the item may improve the odor released by the garments of the user .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software executed by a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. Once configured by such software hardware modules become specific machines or specific components of a machine uniquely tailored to perform the configured functions and are no longer general purpose processors. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software accordingly configures a particular processor or processors for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein processor implemented module refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented with a particular processor or processors being an example of hardware. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. Moreover the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. an Application Program Interface API .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

The machine may include processors memory and I O components which may be configured to communicate with each other such as via a bus . In an example embodiment the processors e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU a Reduced Instruction Set Computing RISC processor a Complex Instruction Set Computing CISC processor a Graphics Processing Unit GPU a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit RFIC another processor or any suitable combination thereof may include for example processor and processor that may execute instructions . The term processor is intended to include multi core processor that may comprise two or more independent processors sometimes referred to as cores that may execute instructions contemporaneously. Although shows multiple processors the machine may include a single processor with a single core a single processor with multiple cores e.g. a multi core process multiple processors with a single core multiple processors with multiples cores or any combination thereof

The memory storage may include a memory such as a main memory or other memory storage and a storage unit both accessible to the processors such as via the bus . The storage unit and memory store the instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or partially within the memory within the storage unit within at least one of the processors e.g. within the processor s cache memory or any suitable combination thereof during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the memory the storage unit and the memory of processors are examples of machine readable media.

As used herein machine readable medium means a device able to store instructions and data temporarily or permanently and may include but is not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory optical media magnetic media cache memory other types of storage e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and or any suitable combination thereof. The term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processors cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium excludes signals per se.

The I O components may include a wide variety of components to receive input provide output produce output transmit information exchange information capture measurements and so on. The specific I O components that are included in a particular machine will depend on the type of machine. For example portable machines such as mobile phones will likely include a touch input device or other such input mechanisms while a headless server machine will likely not include such a touch input device. It will be appreciated that the I O components may include many other components that are not shown in . The I O components are grouped according to functionality merely for simplifying the following discussion and the grouping is in no way limiting. In various example embodiments the I O components may include output components and input components . The output components may include visual components e.g. a display such as a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT acoustic components e.g. speakers haptic components e.g. a vibratory motor resistance mechanisms other signal generators and so forth. The input components may include alphanumeric input components e.g. a keyboard a touch screen configured to receive alphanumeric input a photo optical keyboard or other alphanumeric input components point based input components e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument tactile input components e.g. a physical button a touch screen that provides location and or force of touches or touch gestures or other tactile input components audio input components e.g. a microphone and the like.

In further example embodiments the I O components may include biometric components motion components environmental components or position components among a wide array of other components. For example the biometric components may include components to detect expressions e.g. hand expressions facial expressions vocal expressions body gestures or eye tracking measure biosignals e.g. blood pressure heart rate body temperature perspiration or brain waves identify a person e.g. voice identification retinal identification facial identification fingerprint identification or electroencephalogram based identification and the like. The motion components may include acceleration sensor components e.g. accelerometer gravitation sensor components rotation sensor components e.g. gyroscope and so forth. The environmental components may include for example illumination sensor components e.g. photometer temperature sensor components e.g. one or more thermometer that detect ambient temperature humidity sensor components pressure sensor components e.g. barometer acoustic sensor components e.g. one or more microphones that detect background noise proximity sensor components e.g. infrared sensors that detect nearby objects gas sensors e.g. gas detection sensors to detection concentrations of hazardous gases for safety or to measure pollutants in the atmosphere or other components that may provide indications measurements or signals corresponding to a surrounding physical environment. The position components may include location sensor components e.g. a Global Position System GPS receiver component altitude sensor components e.g. altimeters or barometers that detect air pressure from which altitude may be derived orientation sensor components e.g. magnetometers and the like.

Communication may be implemented using a wide variety of technologies. The I O components may include communication components operable to couple the machine to a network or devices via coupling and coupling respectively. For example the communication components may include a network interface component or other suitable device to interface with the network . In further examples communication components may include wired communication components wireless communication components cellular communication components Near Field Communication NFC components Bluetooth components e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy Wi Fi components and other communication components to provide communication via other modalities. The devices may be another machine or any of a wide variety of peripheral devices e.g. a peripheral device coupled via a Universal Serial Bus USB .

Moreover the communication components may detect identifiers or include components operable to detect identifiers. For example the communication components may include Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag reader components NFC smart tag detection components optical reader components e.g. an optical sensor to detect one dimensional bar codes such as Universal Product Code UPC bar code multi dimensional bar codes such as Quick Response QR code Aztec code Data Matrix Dataglyph MaxiCode PDF417 Ultra Code UCC RSS 2D bar code and other optical codes or acoustic detection components e.g. microphones to identify tagged audio signals . In addition a variety of information may be derived via the communication components such as location via Internet Protocol IP geo location location via Wi Fi signal triangulation location via detecting a NFC beacon signal that may indicate a particular location and so forth.

In various example embodiments one or more portions of the network may be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN the Internet a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a plain old telephone service POTS network a cellular telephone network a wireless network a Wi Fi network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks. For example the network or a portion of the network may include a wireless or cellular network and the coupling may be a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular or wireless coupling. In this example the coupling may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP including 3G fourth generation wireless 4G networks Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE standard others defined by various standard setting organizations other long range protocols or other data transfer technology.

The instructions may be transmitted or received over the network using a transmission medium via a network interface device e.g. a network interface component included in the communication components and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Similarly the instructions may be transmitted or received using a transmission medium via the coupling e.g. a peer to peer coupling to devices . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of embodiments of the present disclosure. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single disclosure or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present disclosure as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

