---

title: Systems, methods, and devices with different radio link failure timers based on user equipment speed
abstract: Systems, methods, and device for adjusting an operation time of a radio link failure timer are disclosed herein. User equipment (UE) may be configured to communicatively couple to an evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN). The UE use different radio link failure timer parameters depending on the speed of the UE. The radio link failure timer may run for a longer time for rapidly moving UEs and run for a shorter time for slowly moving UEs. In an embodiment, the UE may scale the radio link failure timer by a scaling factor. In another embodiment, the UE may include multiple radio link failure timers for different speeds. The radio link failure timer parameters for each speed may be specified by the E-UTRAN in a one-to-one communication. The E-UTRAN may determine which parameters to use for each UE based on characteristics of the UE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420627&OS=09420627&RS=09420627
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09420627
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151231
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 317 184 filed Jun. 27 2014 which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 883 127 filed Sep. 26 2013 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to systems methods and devices for providing different radio link failure timers based on the speed of user equipment.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a base station and a wireless communication device. Wireless communication system standards and protocols can include for example the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as Wi Fi. In 3GPP radio access networks RANs in LTE systems a base station may include Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and or Radio Network Controllers RNCs in an E UTRAN which communicate with a wireless communication device known as user equipment UE . An evolved packet core EPC may communicatively couple the E UTRAN to an external network such as the Internet.

LTE networks include radio access technology and core radio network architecture that provide high data rate low latency packet optimization and improved system capacity and coverage. In LTE networks an E UTRAN may include a plurality of eNodeBs and may communicate with a plurality of UEs. UEs may be handed over from one eNodeB to another as the signal strength of the eNodeBs changes e.g. due to movement by the UEs . A UE may start a radio link failure RLF timer e.g. a T310 timer a recover timer or the like if the signal quality from an eNodeB to which the UE is currently connected falls below a predetermined threshold. For example if a Channel Quality Indicator CQI is less than a threshold Qout an out of sync indication may be generated. If more than a specified number of out of sync indications are received the RLF timer may be started. If the CQI is greater than a threshold Qin more than a specified number of times the RLF timer may be stopped. If the RLF timer expires an RLF may be declared. RLFs may occur during handover or when a handover is not occurring but may be more prevalent during handovers. If an RLF is declared the UE may attempt to establish a connection with an eNodeB that has the UE context and or may enter an idle mode and restart the connection process a new.

The plurality of UEs may travel at different speeds relative to the eNodeBs. For example one UE may be carried by a person who is stationary or travelling on foot and another may be carried by a person travelling in a car or a high speed train. The channel conditions experienced by the UEs may be different. The channel condition may change quickly for the rapidly moving UE and the UE may quickly distance itself from any sources of interference that begin degrading the channel. If given enough time the UE may be able to recover a radio link with the eNodeB without declaring an RLF. In contrast the slowly moving UE may be less likely to recover from poor channel conditions. Shadowing and or a source of interference may degrade performance of the UE for an extended period of time. The UE may receive an improved signal by changing to another eNodeB. Thus performance of the slowly moving UE may be improved by declaring an RLF sooner and restarting the connection establishment process.

The time until an RLF is declared may be adjusted for each UE to accommodate the different speeds of the various UEs. In some embodiments the UE determines the speed at which it is moving and adjusts the RLF timer parameters accordingly. The running time of the RLF timer may be increased for rapidly moving UEs may be decreased for slowly moving UEs and or the like. The UE may determine the RLF timer parameters for a plurality of speeds in advance and may select the RLF timer parameters corresponding to a current speed when the RLF timer needs to be started. Alternatively only the RLF parameters for the current speed may be determined. The UE may be classified into one of a plurality speed states based on the speed of the UE. The speed states may include slow medium and or fast. There may be 2 3 4 5 or more speed states. The speeds corresponding to each speed states may be predefined and or may be communicated to the UE by the eNodeB.

The UE may adjust the RLF timer parameters by determining which of a plurality of scaling factors should be applied to the RLF timer. A scaling factor that causes the RLF timer to expire sooner or does not change the RLF timer may be used for a slowly moving UE. A scaling factor that does not change the RLF timer or that causes the RLF timer to expire later may be used for a rapidly moving UE. In an embodiment a scaling factor less than one causes the timer to count up more slowly. The UE may adjust the RLF timer parameters by determining which of a plurality of RLF timers to use to determine when to declare an RLF. The plurality of RLF timers may be configured to run for different lengths of time before expiring. The plurality of RLF timers may all be started and only the RLF timer corresponding to the current UE speed may be evaluated when determining whether to declare an RLF. Alternatively only the RLF timer corresponding to the current UE speed may be started. In an embodiment a long RLF timer may be used by a rapidly moving UE and a short RLF timer may be used by a slowly moving UE.

The UE may receive the RLF timer parameters from an eNodeB. The RLF parameters may include scaling factors to be used for different speed states a run time of the T310 timer run times for a plurality of T310 timers e.g. a long T310 timer and a short T310 timer cutoffs for speed states and or the like. In an embodiment the eNodeB may determine the speed of the UE and send a T310 timer value determined based on the UE speed to the UE. However the eNodeB uses a lot of resources e.g. storage resources processing resources communication resources etc. determining the speed of all connected UEs tracking the speed and sending updates to the T310 timer value. Resources can be saved by determining the UE speed only once but the UE may use a non optimal T310 timer value if it changes speed. In another embodiment the eNodeB may broadcast a high speed timer value and a low speed timer value in a system information block SIB and the UE may determine which timer value to use based on its measurements of its own speed. However there may be a large communication resource penalty when the system information block is made longer. Additionally the eNodeB may not be able to customize timer parameters to individual UEs.

In an alternate embodiment the eNodeB may use a radio resource control RRC message e.g. a connection reconfiguration message to send timer parameters to the UE. For example a SIB may include default timer parameters that do not account for speed and the RRC message may further define the timer parameters for different speeds and or speed states of the UE. The RRC message may be sent after the UE first attaches to the eNodeB. The RRC message may contain sufficient information for the UE to be able to determine which RLF timer parameters to use based on the UE s own determination of its speed. Accordingly the eNodeB may not need to determine or track UE speed or send multiple RRC messages. The RRC message may be a unicast message sent in a one to one communication from the eNodeB to the UE and may only need to be sent once so few communication resources may be used. In addition the RLF timer parameters may be customized to the UE. For example the UE may send indications of characteristics such as identifying information for the UE to the eNodeB. The characteristics may include a manufacturer of the UE a model of the UE settings of the UE a manufacturer of a transceiver a model of the transceiver settings of the transceiver an initial speed of the UE when first becoming attached and or the like. The eNodeB may determine the RLF timer parameters based on the received indications. The eNodeB may further determine the RLF timer parameters based on its own known characteristics e.g. whether the eNodeB is urban or rural the presence of shadowing objects a number of pico cells or other small cells nearby a number of UEs typically present etc. . The eNodeB may attempt to optimize the RLF timer based on the expected performance of the UE under expected conditions for the different speeds.

A slowly moving UE may experience a bad link condition that lasts for an extended period of time. The slowly moving UE may need to establish a connection with a new eNodeB to resolve the bad link condition . In a long RLF timer situation the slowly moving UE may have to wait an extended period of time for the RLF timer to expire before it can establish the connection with the new eNodeB. In the short RLF timer situation the slowly moving UE does not need to wait as long for the RLF timer to expire and may connect to the new eNodeB sooner. The UE will spend less time disconnected and provide a better user experience in the short RLF timer situation.

A rapidly moving UE may experience a bad link condition that lasts for a brief period of time. The rapidly moving UE may be able to recover its connection with the current eNodeB if enough time is allowed for the bad link condition to pass. In a long RLF timer situation the rapidly moving UE may have sufficient time to recover the connection with the current eNodeB after the bad link condition has passed. In a short RLF timer situation the RLF timer may expire before the bad link condition has passed and or before the connection could be recovered. The UE will recover faster and provide a better user experience in the long RLF timer situation.

If the extended bad link condition is the most likely kind of bad link condition to occur for the slowly moving UE and the brief bad link condition is the most like kind to occur for the rapidly moving UE the average performance of the UEs over time will be best when a short timer is used for slowly moving UEs and a long timer is used for rapidly moving UEs. For many UEs their speed may change over time in an unpredictable manner. Accordingly the speed of the UE may be measured to determine which link conditions it is likely to experience and thus how long the RLF timer should operate.

The UE may further include a speed measuring unit . The speed measuring unit may estimate how fast the UE is travelling. The speed measuring unit may determine speed based on a number size and or location of cells traversed based on a Doppler shift based on a satellite navigation system and or the like. It is anticipated that further advances will be made in methods for estimating speed and any such method may be used by the speed measuring unit to determine speed. Any units may be used by the speed measuring unit to express the speed or the speed measuring unit may classify the speed as belonging to one of a plurality of speed states. The speed states may be defined based on a set of thresholds and the appropriate speed state may be determined by comparing the measured speed to the set of thresholds.

The UE may include a radio resource controller which may control RLF analysis and handovers between eNodeBs for the UE . The radio resource controller may transmit characteristics of the UE to the eNodeB and may receive back parameters for the T310 timers . The parameters may be communicated to the radio resource controller in an RRC message. The radio resource controller may parse the RRC message and may configure the T310 timers based on the received parameters. The radio resource controller may receive the speed and or speed state of the UE from the speed measuring unit and determine which T310 timer to use based on the received speed and or speed state. The radio resource controller may start one or both of the T310 timers when radio link problems are detected and may declare an RLF when the appropriate T310 timer expires. Although the transceiver T310 timers speed measuring unit and radio resource controller are illustrated as separate units the functionalities may be combined into fewer units and or further separated into additional units in other embodiments.

In response to sending characteristic information to the eNodeB the radio resource controller may receive scaling unit parameters for one or more speeds and or speed states. In an embodiment one speed state may use a default scaling so only the other speed state s may need scaling unit parameters. The radio resource controller may receive the speed and or speed state from the speed measuring unit and may instruct the scaling unit to use a particular scaling factor based on the speed and or speed state. The T310 timer may count up to a specified threshold and or count down from a specified starting point. The scaling unit may be configured based on the design of the T310 timer . The scaling factor may be multiplied by the specified threshold the specified starting point the current count of the T310 timer and or the like. The radio resource controller may determine when the scaled T310 timer has expired and may declare an RLF when the scaled T310 timer has expired. Although the transceiver T310 timer scaling unit speed measuring unit and radio resource controller are illustrated as separate units the functionalities may be combined into fewer units and or further separated into additional units in other embodiments.

During and or after attachment characteristics of the UE may be provided to the eNodeB. For example identifying information for the UE e.g. a manufacturer of the UE a model of the UE etc. settings of the UE a manufacturer of a transceiver a model of the transceiver settings of the transceiver an initial speed of the UE and or the like may be provided to the eNodeB. The eNodeB may request the information it wants and or a predetermined set of information may be provided to the eNodeB. Based on the provided information about the UE and or already known information about the eNodeB the eNodeB may determine T310 timer parameters. An RRC message containing the T310 timer parameters may be received from the eNodeB. For example the RRC message may be a connection reconfiguration message. Depending on the embodiment and or configuration the T310 parameters may include run times for a short timer and a long timer scaling factors for different speeds and or the like. The T310 timer parameters may include speed divisions and or definitions of speed states that indicate which timer and or scaling factor should be used for each UE speed.

The T310 timer may be configured based on the T310 timer parameters received in the RRC message. Configuring the T310 timer parameters may include configuring the T310 timer to operate using the parameters for the current UE speed. The UE speed may be continually monitored and the parameters may be updated as the UE speed changes. Alternatively or in addition the T310 timer may be configured with all the received parameters and the particular parameters to be used may be determined based on the UE speed when the T310 timer is needed.

In an embodiment the UE speed may be determined in response to the bad radio link being detected . Alternatively or in addition the UE speed may have previously determined and may not need to be determined again. Determining the UE speed may include retrieving a continually updated UE speed. The UE speed may be in any of various units and or the UE speed may be specified as a speed state. For example one embodiment may include UE speed states of fast and slow and another embodiment may include UE speed states of fast medium and slow. The speeds corresponding to each speed state may be specified by the eNodeB predetermined defined by a standard and or the like. The parameters for the T310 timer may be selected based on the UE speed determined . Selecting the parameters may include determining which of a plurality of T310 timers to use determining a scaling factor for the T310 timer determining a run time for the T310 timer and or the like. In some embodiments the parameters for the T310 timer may have been determined previously for example when a UE speed was previously measured. In such embodiments the T310 timer parameters may not need to be selected again.

Once the T310 timer parameters have been selected and the T310 timer has been configured the T310 timer may be started . The T310 timer may count down from a specified starting point may count up to a specified threshold and or the like. The T310 timer may continue to operate as long as fewer than a specified number of in sync indications have been received. For example an in sync indication may be generated each time the CQI is greater than a threshold Qin. If more than the specified number of in sync indications are received then it may be assumed that the radio link has recovered. The T310 timer may be stopped and reset until the next bad radio link is detected . If the radio link is not recovered the T310 timer may run until it expires. The T310 timer may expire by counting down to zero or by counting up to the specified threshold. A radio link failure may be declared if the T310 timer expires. In response to the radio link failure the UE may attempt to reestablish a connection with the eNodeB and or may go to idle mode and start the connection process over again.

Example 1 is a UE configured to communicate with an eUTRAN. The UE includes a transceiver and a processor coupled to the transceiver. The processor is configured to receive a unicast message from the eUTRAN. The message includes parameters for a T310 timer and indicates which parameters to use for different UE speeds. The processor is also configured to determine a radio link with the eUTRAN has a quality below a predetermined threshold. The processor is also configured to determine a current speed of the UE. The processor is also configured to configure the T310 timer with the parameters for the current speed of the UE. The processor is also configured to start the T310 timer. The processor is also configured to declare a radio link failure when the T310 timer expires

In Example 2 the parameters for the T310 timer of Example 1 include a scaling factor. The T310 timer is multiplied by the scaling factor to adjust a running time of the T310 timer.

In Example 3 the scaling factor of any of Examples 1 2 causes the T310 timer to take less time to expire when the current speed of the UE is less than a predetermined threshold.

In Example 4 the parameters for the T310 timer of any of Examples 1 3 include which of a short T310 timer and a long T310 timer to use as the T310 timer.

In Example 5 the processor of any of Examples 1 4 is configured to start the short timer when the current speed of the UE is less than a predetermined threshold.

In Example 6 the processor of any of Examples 1 5 is configured to determine the radio link is bad by generating a predetermined number of out of sync indications.

In Example 7 the UE of any of Examples 1 6 receives the indications of which T310 timer parameters to use in an RRC message.

In Example 8 the UE of any of Examples 1 7 includes a transceiver including transmitter and receiver components multiple antennas in which a first antenna of the multiple antennas is coupled to the transmitter and in which a second antenna of the multiple antennas is coupled to the receiver a display touchscreen and a keyboard.

Example 9 is a method for adjusting a time until a radio link failure is declared. The method includes receiving configuration information from a base station in a one to one message. The method also includes determining a speed of a mobile user device. The method also includes configuring a radio link failure timer based on the speed of the mobile user device and the configuration information. The radio link failure timer is longer when the mobile user device is moving at a high speed than it is when the mobile user device is moving at a low speed.

In Example 10 the method of Example 9 includes detecting a radio link quality below a predetermined threshold. The method also includes starting the radio link failure timer in response to detecting the radio link quality below the predetermined threshold. The method also includes declaring a radio link failure when the radio link failure timer expires.

In Example 11 the configuring of the radio link failure timer of any of Examples 9 10 includes determining which of a long timer and a short timer to use as the radio link failure timer.

In Example 12 the configuring of the radio link failure timer of any of Examples 9 11 includes selecting a scaling factor to adjust a run time of the radio link failure timer.

In Example 13 the determining the speed of the mobile user device of any of Examples 9 12 includes classifying the mobile user device into one of a plurality of states based on the speed of the mobile user device.

In Example 14 the receiving of configuration information of any of Examples 9 13 includes receiving configuration information associated with one or more of the plurality of states.

In Example 15 the method of any of Examples 9 14 includes transmitting indications of characteristics of the mobile user device to the base station. The configuration information is determined by the base station based on the indications of the characteristics.

Example 16 is a device for adjusting a time until a radio link failure is declared. The device includes circuitry. The circuitry is configured to access settings for a recovery timer for each of a plurality of speed states of the device. The settings were indicated in a reconfiguration message from a based station. The circuitry is also configured to determine a current speed state of the device. The circuitry is also configured to upon detecting a decline in signal quality start the recovery timer according to the settings for the current speed state.

In Example 17 the circuitry of Example 16 is further configured to switch to an idle mode in response to the recovery timer expiring.

In Example 18 the settings for the recovery timer of any of Examples 16 17 include a scaling factor for the recovery timer for each of the plurality of speed states.

In Example 19 the scaling factor of any of Examples 16 18 decreases a running time of the recovery timer when the current speed state is a low speed state.

In Example 20 the settings for the recovery timer of any of Examples 16 19 include a running time for a short timer used in a low speed state and a running time for a long timer used in a high speed state.

In Example 21 the circuitry of any of Examples 16 20 is configured to start the short timer and the long timer upon detecting the decline in signal quality. The local transceiver is configured to determine based on the current speed state which of an expiration of the short time and an expiration of long timer should cause the local transceiver to declare a radio link failure.

In Example 22 the circuitry of any of Examples 16 21 is configured to provide identifying information to the base station. The settings are selected by the base station based on the identifying information.

Example 23 is a method for adjusting a time until a radio link failure is declared when communicating with an eUTRAN. The method includes receiving at a UE a one to one message from an eNB. The message also includes parameters for a T310 timer and indicates which parameters to use for different UE speeds. The method also includes determining a radio link with the eNB has a quality below a predetermined threshold. The method also includes determining a current speed of the UE. The method also includes configuring the T310 timer with the parameters for the current speed of the UE. The method also includes starting the T310 timer. The method also includes declaring a radio link failure when the T310 timer expires.

In Example 24 the parameters for the T310 timer of Example 23 include a scaling factor. Configuring the T310 timer includes multiplying the T310 timer by the scaling factor to adjust a running time of the T310 timer.

In Example 25 the scaling factor of any of Examples 23 24 causes the T310 timer to take less time to expire when the current speed of the UE is less than a predetermined threshold.

In Example 26 the parameters for the T310 timer of any of Examples 23 25 include a running time of a short timer and a running time of a long timer. Configuring the T310 timer includes determining which of the long timer and the short timer to use as the T310 timer.

In Example 27 the determining of which of the long timer and the short timer to use of any of Examples 23 26 includes using the short timer when the speed of the UE is less than a predetermined threshold.

In Example 28 the determining that the radio link with the eNB has the quality below the predetermined threshold of any of Examples 23 27 includes generating a predetermined number of out of sync indications.

In Example 29 the receiving the one to one message of any of Example 23 28 includes receiving an RRC message.

In Example 30 the determining of the current speed of the UE of any of Examples 23 29 includes classifying UE into one of a plurality of states based on the speed of the UE.

In Example 31 the receiving of the one to one message including the parameters for the T310 timer of any of Examples 23 30 includes receiving parameters associated with one or more of the plurality of states.

In Example 32 the method of any of Examples 23 31 includes transmitting indications of characteristics of the UE to the eNB. The parameters for the T310 timer are determined by the eNB based on the indications of the characteristics.

In Example 33 the transmitting the indications of the characteristics of the UE of any of Examples 23 32 includes providing identifying information to the eNB. The eNB selects the parameters for the T310 timer based on the identifying information.

In Example 34 the method of any of Examples 23 33 includes switching to an idle mode in response to the T310 timer expiring.

In Example 35 the starting of the T310 timer of any of Examples 23 34 includes starting the short timer and the long timer upon determining the radio link has the quality below the predetermined threshold. Configuring the T310 timer includes determining based on the current state which of an expiration of the short time and an expiration of long timer should cause the local transceiver to declare a radio link failure.

Example 36 is an apparatus including means to perform a method as described in any preceding example.

Example 37 is machine readable storage including machine readable instructions which when executed implement a method or realize an apparatus as described in any preceding example.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile andnon volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM an EPROM a flash drive an optical drive a magnetic hard drive or another medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or an object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object a procedure or a function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations that when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on its presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present disclosure may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present disclosure.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the disclosure is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the disclosure. The scope of the present application should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

