---

title: Card reader emulation for cardless transactions
abstract: Disclosed are method and apparatus that enable a cardless payment transaction to be executed from a merchant point-of-sale (POS) system. A user is enabled to check in at a merchant by using a mobile device of the user and then to pay by simply appearing at the merchant and mentioning his name. By emulating card read events and intercepting receipt printer outputs, the technique cleanly integrates into a conventional merchant POS system, without the need for customized software or hardware to accommodate individual POS vendor-proprietary application programming interfaces (APIs).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626669&OS=09626669&RS=09626669
owner: Square, Inc.
number: 09626669
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150324
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 187 049 filed on Feb. 21 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 909 282 filed on Nov. 26 2013 and U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 921 374 filed on Dec. 27 2013 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The traditional manner of paying by credit card in a restaurant or other full service retail establishment is inefficient and time consuming. For example when a customer in a restaurant wishes to pay by credit card he typically does so by first getting the waiter s attention and then requesting a check. The customer then waits several minutes for the check. After the waiter brings the check the customer waits several more minutes for the waiter to return and collect the customer s credit card and then waits several more minutes for the waiter to return with a printed receipt. While the customer is waiting for the receipt the waiter brings the credit card to a point of sale POS terminal runs the card through a card reader and waits for an authorization signal to come back and for a paper receipt to be printed. When the customer receives the printed receipt from the waiter the customer writes any tip gratuity that he wishes to add onto the receipt and then signs the receipt. The waiter then collects the signed receipt typically after the customer has left the establishment and enters the total amount of the transaction including tip into the POS system.

This process is very time consuming and inefficient from the perspectives of the customer who may be in a hurry to leave the restaurant the waiter who may be busy serving other customers and the restaurant owner who may require high efficiency from service employees in order to remain profitable.

References in this description to an embodiment one embodiment or the like mean that the particular feature function structure or characteristic being described is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Occurrences of such phrases in this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment. On the other hand the embodiments referred to also are not necessarily mutually exclusive.

Introduced here is a technique that enables more efficient payment by use of a payment account such as a credit card or debit card account. The technique eliminates the need for a customer to carry a physical payment card e.g. a credit card or debit card and eliminates the need to do a physical card swipe or other similar physical card read event when performing a payment card transaction. The technique is particularly advantageous when applied to a full service retail establishment such as a restaurant in particular the technique facilitates a pay by name paradigm in which a customer can pay essentially by just telling the merchant his name. Additionally by emulating card read events and intercepting receipt printer outputs as described further below the technique introduced here can cleanly integrate into essentially any conventional POS system without the need for customized software or hardware to accommodate individual POS vendors proprietary application programming interfaces APIs .

In the following description the example of a restaurant is used for illustrative purposes only to explain various aspects of the technique. Note however that the technique introduced here is not limited in applicability to restaurants or to any other particular kind of business. Additionally the technique introduced here is not limited to use with payment cards or even to financial transactions. The technique can be employed with essentially any transaction that traditionally would be initiated by or involve the use of a physical card reader. Hence the term sale as in point of sale POS refers to any type of payment oriented transaction including a lease or rental for example and is not limited to an actual purchase. Note also that in this description the term user generally refers to a customer as opposed to a merchant except where otherwise indicated and except that the term user interface does not necessarily refer to an interface used by a customer as will be apparent from the context.

In certain embodiments the technique introduced here involves the following sequence of actions as described more fully below. Initially a customer registers with a cardless payment service. At some later time the customer visits a merchant and checks in to the merchant by using a mobile payment application on the customer s mobile device e.g. a smartphone or tablet computer . The check in action triggers a sequence of messages and other actions that cause the customer s name and photo to appear relatively immediately on a display device of the merchant s POS terminal.

When the customer is ready to pay he simply tells the merchant that he wants to pay with the payment service preferably mentioning the service by its advertised trade name . The merchant then closes the ticket or tab in the merchant POS system in the traditional way. However when it is time to swipe a credit card through the merchant s card reader the waiter instead simply taps the customer s name or photo displayed on the merchant POS terminal. The term swipe here refers to any manner of triggering a physical card reader to read a physical card such as passing a card through a magnetic stripe reader smartcard reader optical code reader radio frequency identification RFID reader etc.

A card read emulator CRE module in the merchant POS system enables the cardless payment technique to cleanly integrate into essentially any conventional POS system. It does so by emulating physical card read events and intercepting receipt printer output at the merchant POS system. More specifically and as described in detail below the CRE module responds to the merchant s triggering input by sending a virtual card swipe to the main POS software in the POS system. The CRE module also intercepts the receipt printing once the transaction has been authorized. Instead of printing a physical receipt the CRE module causes a virtual copy of the receipt to be sent to the customer s mobile device where it is displayed to the customer by the mobile payment application. For print operations that are not associated with a cardless transaction the CRE module simply allows those to pass unaffected to the printer.

After some time the customer may input a tip amount into the mobile payment application on his mobile device. The CRE module then instructs the merchant to enter the tip into their POS terminal as if it were a virtual merchant copy. Other ways of inputting the tip amount and variations upon the disclosed technique are also described below.

As described further below the CRE module may be integrated within the merchant POS terminal or it may be a separate device. If it is integrated within the POS terminal it may be an integral part of the main POS software application or it may be a separate add on software application or hardware device. The CRE module emulates the output of a physical card reader used by the merchant where no actual card read event occurs in relation to the payment transaction. It does so by invoking the POS system s well published card reader API associated with the particular card reader used by the merchant and sending the data that emulates the output of the card reader to the main POS application in the output protocol used by the card reader. The card reader can be for example a conventional magnetic stripe card reader a smartcard integrated circuit IC card reader barcode reader quick response QR code reader RFID card reader or the like.

After the transaction has been approved by a remote payment processing entity the CRE module prevents generation of a printed receipt by using the POS terminal s well published printer API to intercept a print signal generated by the main POS application for print operations that are not associated with a cardless transaction the CRE module simply allows those to pass unaffected to the printer . In response to the print signal the CRE module causes a message to be sent from the merchant POS system to a remote computer system of the cardless payment service which responds by sending a message to the consumer s mobile device to cause the mobile payment application to display a virtual receipt for the transaction.

The environment illustrated in can accommodate both traditional payment card transactions i.e. those involving reading of physical card of the customer at the merchant s location as well as cardless transactions according to the technique introduced here. In a traditional credit card transaction for example the merchant swipes the user s credit card through a card reader at the POS system . The POS system sends data read from the card e.g. the cardholders name credit card number expiration date and card verification value CVV to the computer system of the merchant s acquirer hereinafter acquirer . The acquirer sends this data to the computer system of the card payment network e.g. Visa or MasterCard hereinafter card payment network which forwards the data to the computer system of the issuing bank hereinafter issuer . If the transaction is approved by the issuer a payment authorization message is sent from the issuer to the merchant POS system via a path opposite of that described above.

A cardless payment service operates the payment service system to facilitate cardless payment transactions. The user s mobile device can communicate with the payment service system over internetwork . The payment service system includes one or more server computers programmed to process payment transactions involving users registered with the cardless payment service. It also stores information such as registered credit card numbers debit card numbers bank accounts user accounts user identifying information or other sensitive information. The payment service system is also responsible for sending information about merchants who have accounts with the cardless payment system to the user s mobile device .

In accordance with the technique introduced here the POS system also includes a CRE module that communicates with the main POS application . The CRE module may also communicate with the display either directly or through the main POS application . The CRE module can be software hardware or a combination thereof. As illustrated in the CRE module can be logically separate from the main POS module but operate along side it. Alternatively the CRE module can be an integral part of the main POS application as shown in . Other alternatives include binding virtual USB devices or implementing the CRE module as a separate hardware device that connects between the merchant POS terminal and the card reader and printer .

The CRE module has two main functions. Firstly it emulates card read events to the main POS module by using a protocol and API associated with the card reader. Secondly it intercepts print signals generated by the main POS application for the printer by using an API of the printer and triggers a sequence of operations to cause a virtual receipt to be sent to the user s mobile device . These functions enable the customer to pay by credit or debit in a cardless transaction without the need to customize software or hardware to accommodate individual POS vendor proprietary APIs.

Accordingly as shown in in certain embodiments the CRE module includes a card reader emulator and a receipt manager . The card reader emulator is responsible for emulating card read events to the main POS application . The receipt manager is responsible for intercepting print signals generated by the main POS application and triggering the sequence of operations to cause a virtual receipt to be sent to the user s mobile device . Dynamic link library DLL injection can be used to intercept and modify communications between the main POS application and the standard Windows USB APIs e.g. used for a magnetic stripe card reader and printer APIs.

Note that certain POS systems might integrate with a card processing terminal instead of a magnetic stripe reader. In those cases the CRE module can simply emulate the card processing terminal.

Before a cardless transaction between the user and the merchant can be performed the mobile payment application is installed on the user s mobile device e.g. through an online application store and the CRE module is installed on the merchant POS system . Additionally the user is required to create a user account with the payment service system . The user can do so from the mobile device by using the mobile payment application or a mobile web browser or by using another processing device such as a home computer with a conventional web browser.

In certain embodiments the user enters a name account password and contact information e.g. email address. Before a cardless payment transaction can be performed the user also enters financial account information sufficient to conduct the transaction into the payment service system . For example in the case of a credit card account the user can enter the credit card issuer credit card number and expiration date into the payment service system the CVV and mailing address may also be required. However the financial account could also be associated with a debit card or pre paid card or another third party financial account.

In some embodiments the payment service requires that the user provide additional personal identifying information before a cardless transaction will be allowed such as a photo of the user. The photo of the user would later be provided to the merchant e.g. via the CRE module so that the merchant can compare the photo to the person at the merchant s location. In addition the payment service can require a personal identification number PIN be entered by the user. Other requirements can also be added to increase security. The data associated with the user s account can be stored in a database not shown at the payment service system .

In operation the user carries the mobile device with the mobile payment application installed and the merchant uses the POS system as described above. The mobile payment application CRE module payment service and main POS application interact to enable the user to pay by a cardless transaction. This is accomplished in part by determining a relative location between the user s mobile device and the merchant. The system includes the ability to determine the current location of the user s mobile device with a relatively high degree of accuracy. For example the mobile device may have an internal geolocation device such as a global positioning system GPS receiver. Alternatively the location of the mobile device may be determined by the wireless network e.g. using radio frequency RF signal triangulation or other known technique. The location of the merchant is assumed to be well known and pre stored within the payment service system .

The cardless payment service can predetermine a distance e.g. a radius from the location of a merchant such as 500 feet such that if the mobile device is within that distance from a given merchant and the checks in to the merchant the system can reliably assume that the user is in fact present at the merchant. If the user is located within the predetermined distance from a merchant the user will be allowed to check in at the merchant by using the mobile payment application . This may be done by for example the user pressing a simple check in button or the like on a display of the mobile device . The check in function may be considered to be an indication of the user s consent to perform a cardless transaction with that particular merchant and effectively opens a tab with the merchant. Alternatively the mobile payment application may be configured to automatically check in the user when the user is within the predetermined distance of the merchant. If on the other hand the mobile device is located beyond the predetermined distance from a particular merchant the user will not be allowed to check in at that merchant. In that case the user device will indicate to the user that it is too far from the merchant to check in.

Initially the user inputs a request into the mobile device to identify a merchant that can perform cardless payment transactions. The request may be sent automatically for example when the user opens the mobile payment application on the mobile device . The mobile device sends the request to the payment service system via the internetwork . The request can be accompanied by location information of the mobile device e.g. as determined by the mobile device . The payment service system receives the request and selects one or more merchants based on the location information from the customer and the stored location information for the merchant. An identification of the merchant and the location information for the merchant is sent to the mobile device .

In some embodiments the user checks in at the merchant by interacting with the mobile payment application running on the user s mobile device step . When the user checks in an identification of the merchant and the location information for the merchant is sent to the mobile device . The mobile device determines whether it is within the predetermined distance from the merchant step . If the mobile device does not know the current location of the merchant or if the merchant recently updated its location information the merchant location can be pushed or pulled into the mobile device . Alternatively if the user opts in to sharing of location information the location information of the mobile device can be provided to the payment service system which determines the 30 distance between the merchant and the mobile device .

As described above if the mobile device determines the user s mobile device is not within the predetermined distance e.g. 500 feet the mobile device displays a message indicating its inability to check in the user step . In that case the merchant cannot charge the user s financial account by using a cardless payment transaction. On the other hand if the mobile device is within the predetermined distance the mobile device sends an indication of proximity to the payment service system step .

After the payment service system receives this indication of proximity it sends the indication of the mobile device s presence and personal identifying information to the merchant POS system step . In some embodiments the personal identifying information sent to the merchant POS system includes the user s name photo and financial account number e.g. credit or debit card number . The financial account number may be encrypted such that it can only be decrypted by the CRE module such that it cannot be displayed by the POS system or otherwise accessed by the merchant.

Upon receipt of this information the merchant POS system displays a tab a list of items the customer has ordered step and the user s identifying information e.g. name and photo step on a graphical user interface GUI on its display . An example of such a GUI is shown in . In the illustrated example the right hand portion of the display is a customer tab section that includes a separate subsection for each customer who has checked in at the merchant via the cardless payment service. The customer tab section can be generated by the CRE module for example or by other merchant side POS software. The amount each customer owes can be displayed in the corresponding subsection for that customer on the display.

The left hand portion of the GUI is generated by the main POS application and contains for example names and images of the items that can be ordered purchased and their prices. In other embodiments the user information displayed by the CRE module can be provided in a completely separate window from that of the main POS application . Hence in some embodiments through the GUI the merchant can select items that a customer has requested to purchase. The GUI can be configured to associate individual prices with each of the merchant s items and can automatically sum the total transaction amount that the customer owes.

In some embodiments displaying of the customer tab section may be triggered automatically when a customer who is registered with the cardless payment service checks in at the merchant. Alternatively it may be triggered by a soft button on the GUI generated by the main POS application . Such a soft button may be generated by the CRE module and may automatically change appearance when a user registered with the cardless payment service checks in at the merchant.

In yet another embodiment a hardware button or other similar physical control is provided on a separate hardware module not shown that connects externally to the merchant POS terminal e.g. via a USB port or other conventional interface and communicates with the CRE module to trigger the display of the customer tab portion . The separate hardware module can emulate a USB keyboard and generate a key combination that causes the merchant POS system to enter the desired state as mentioned above. In an extension of this approach the hardware module can also contain a storage device e.g. a USB flash drive that contains the CRE module . Activation of the button or other control on the separate hardware module can cause notifications to be displayed on the display of the POS system and or light up the button when a customer checks in at the merchant.

A customer user can authorize payment for his tab by orally notifying the merchant. For example a user named John Smith can simply tell the merchant Put this on John Smith. Before or after the user authorizes payment for the tab the merchant verifies the user s identity step for example by confirming that the photo displayed on the merchant POS system matches the user who is present in person. Assuming the photo matches the merchant then selects the user s tab e.g. by tapping the corresponding section on the GUI to trigger a cardless payment transaction step when the customer is ready to pay.

In one embodiment the cardless payment transaction involves the following operations as illustrated in . In response to the merchant providing a user input to trigger the cardless payment transaction the CRE module emulates the card reader by sending to the main POS application card read event data associated with the consumer. The card read event data appears to the main POS application to be data resulting from a card read event although no actual card read event has occurred. The CRE module does this by invoking the main POS application s card reader API and sending the data in the output protocol of the card reader . In an embodiment consistent with the CRE module previously received from the payment service system a real payment card account number e.g. credit card number of the customer when the customer checked in at the merchant. Accordingly that account number as well as the consumer s name card expiration date and CVV are provided by the CRE module to the main POS application in the protocol of the card reader . In another embodiment which is discussed further below the CRE module or the payment service system generates a one time use payment card number for the transaction and passes that to the main POS application instead of a real payment card number of the consumer. It is not necessary for the CRE module to implement the entire protocol of the card reader since it only needs to be able to inject simulated card swipes to the main POS application . In one embodiment the CRE module is programmed with DUKPT Derived Unique Key Per Transaction keys for the merchant s acquirer for the purpose of emulating a card swipe. Other data related to the customer may also be provided if required by the API of the card reader .

The main POS application upon receiving the card read event data from the CRE module sends the card read event data in a standard payment authorization request that is forwarded to the issuer . In practice the payment authorization request may actually be sent first to the merchant s acquirer which forwards the request or sends a corresponding new request to the card payment network which then forwards the request or sends a corresponding new request to the issuer however these intermediate communications are omitted from to simplify explanation.

If the transaction is approved by the issuer the issuer sends a standard payment authorization approval message back to the merchant s main POS application using a communication path opposite of that mentioned above. The main POS application responds to the payment authorization message by generating a print message for the local receipt printer of the merchant POS system . However the CRE module by having access to the main POS application s printer API intercepts the print signal before it can reach the printer . In response to detecting the print signal the CRE module also sends a message to the payment service system via the internetwork indicating that a payment authorization message has been received. The payment service system responds by sending a message containing a virtual receipt for the transaction to the user s mobile device . The mobile payment application on the mobile device then displays the virtual receipt to the user. The virtual receipt can include all of the information that a printed card transaction receipt would include including the amount charged name of the consumer date and time of the transaction etc. The user can then optionally input a tip amount. Different ways of handling tips in this process are discussed further below.

In certain embodiments the payment service system parses the receipt data before sending the virtual receipt to the mobile payment application to determine whether the transaction processed successfully or not. It can also parse the receipt data to identify various semantic elements including the total amount of the transaction and items ordered by the customer. Consequently in such embodiments the virtual receipt that the payment service system sends to the mobile device also contains an itemization of these elements which can be displayed to the user. Alternatively the parsing can be performed by the CRE module .

Note that most POS systems use relational databases such as Sybase or Microsoft s SQL Server to store their payment card transaction data. The payment service system can capture most if not all essential transaction data by parsing receipts as described above. Nonetheless it might be desirable to synchronize a merchant s POS database with a database of the payment service system . Among other benefits that would allow the payment service to provide backup storage for merchants.

In the embodiment described above the CRE module receives from the payment service system an actual payment card number of the user and passes that number to the main POS application when a transaction is initiated. In another embodiment however the cardless payment service generates a one time use payment card number for the transaction and passes that to the main POS application instead of a real payment card number of the consumer as noted above. The one time use card number can be generated by the payment service system or by the CRE module in response to the user checking in at the merchant. In this embodiment the payment service which operates the payment service system essentially acts as the credit card issuer from the perspective of the merchant. The merchant POS system charges the one time use credit card number and the payment service later charges the consumer s actual credit card number which is stored in the payment service system . The initial set up process in this embodiment can be substantially identical to that of except that in step the payment service system sends the one time use payment account number to the merchant POS system instead of sending the consumer s actual credit card number. The one time use account number has a format recognizable by the merchant POS system e.g. a standard credit or debit card format.

A cardless transaction using the one time use payment account number can involve the following operations as illustrated in . In response to the merchant providing a user input to trigger the cardless payment transaction the CRE module emulates the card reader by sending to the main POS application data associated with the consumer that appears to the main POS application to be associated with a card read event although no actual card read event has occurred. This can be done in the manner described above. The one time use payment account number as well as the consumer s name account expiration date and CVV are provided by the CRE module to the main POS application in the protocol of the card reader. Other data related to the consumer may also be provided if required by the API of the card reader.

The main POS application upon receiving the card read event data from the CRE module sends the card read event data in a standard payment authorization request that in this embodiment is forwarded to the payment service system which represents the issuer. In practice the payment authorization request may actually be sent first to the merchant s acquirer which forwards the request or sends a corresponding new request to the card payment network which then forwards the request or generates a corresponding new request to the payment service system however these intermediate communications are omitted from to simplify explanation.

If the transaction is approved by the payment service system the payment service system sends a standard payment authorization approval message back to the merchant s main POS application using a communication path opposite of that mentioned above. The main POS application responds to the payment authorization message by generating a print signal for the local receipt printer of the merchant POS system . However the CRE module intercepts the print signal and prevents it from reaching the printer as described above. In this embodiment the payment service system does not need to receive a signal from the CRE module before sending send the virtual receipt since it already knows the transaction is approved. Accordingly at approximately the same time that the payment service system sends the payment authorization signal or shortly thereafter it also sends a message containing a virtual receipt for the transaction to the mobile device of the customer. The mobile payment application on the customer s mobile device then displays the virtual receipt to the user.

At some later time the payment system sends a payment request to the issuer of an actual payment card of the customer. The information of that actual payment card was previously received and stored by the payment service system when the customer registered for the cardless payment service. The payment service system subsequently receives payment from the issuer .

The technique introduced here also enables a customer to tip the merchant e.g. a waiter . There are various ways of accomplishing that. In one approach illustrated in when the virtual receipt is displayed to the customer by the mobile device the customer is prompted by the mobile payment application running on the mobile device to input a tip amount. Accordingly the customer inputs a tip amount into the mobile payment application . The mobile payment application then sends a message to the payment service system including the tip amount. The payment service system than sends a message to the CRE module in the merchant POS system indicating the tip amount. The CRE module then triggers the display of the merchant POS system to display the tip amount on the display of the merchant POS system . The merchant sees the displayed tip amount and then inputs the total transaction amount e.g. amount charged plus tip into the main POS application in the traditional manner. The main POS application then processes the transaction according to the traditional transaction capture process .

In another approach rather than requiring the merchant to copy over the tip amount into the main POS application the CRE module simulates a sequence of user inputs e.g. a sequence of touchscreen or keypad presses to the main POS application to cause the main POS application to enter an appropriate state for inputting the tip amount or total transaction amount and then simulates the proper user input sequence to input that amount into the main POS application . For example the CRE module can invoke an API of an input device of the POS system e.g. a touchscreen or keyboard keypad to communicate the tip amount to the main POS application such that the tip amount appears to the main POS application to have been input by a human user.

In yet another approach the waiter pre registers with the payment service system as a merchant or merchant employee as the case may be and identifies himself to the CRE module via the GUI when he arrives at work each day. After a cardless payment transaction has been authorized as described above the CRE module causes the display to output a prompt asking which waiter should receive the tip. The waiter taps his own name on the display. The CRE module then sends a message indicating this selection to the payment service system . The payment service system then pushes the tip directly to the waiter via automated clearing house ACH or debit for example.

In the illustrated embodiment the processing system includes one or more processors memory a communication device and one or more input output I O devices all coupled to each other through an interconnect . The interconnect may be or include one or more conductive traces buses point to point connections controllers adapters and or other conventional connection devices. The processor s may be or include for example one or more general purpose programmable microprocessors microcontrollers application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable gate arrays or the like or a combination of such devices. The processor s control the overall operation of the processing device . Memory may be or include one or more physical storage devices which may be in the form of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM which may be erasable and programmable flash memory miniature hard disk drive or other suitable type of storage device or a combination of such devices. Memory may store data and instructions that configure the processor s to execute operations in accordance with the techniques described above. The communication device may be or include for example an Ethernet adapter cable modem Wi Fi adapter cellular transceiver Bluetooth transceiver or the like or a combination thereof. Depending on the specific nature and purpose of the processing device the I O devices can include devices such as a display which may be a touch screen display audio speaker keyboard mouse or other pointing device microphone camera etc.

Unless contrary to physical possibility it is envisioned that i the methods steps described above may be performed in any sequence and or in any combination and that ii the components of respective embodiments may be combined in any manner.

The techniques introduced above can be implemented by programmable circuitry programmed configured by software and or firmware or entirely by special purpose circuitry or by a combination of such forms. Such special purpose circuitry if any can be in the form of for example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs etc.

Software or firmware to implement the techniques introduced here may be stored on a machine readable storage medium and may be executed by one or more general purpose or special purpose programmable microprocessors. A machine readable medium as the term is used herein includes any mechanism that can store information in a form accessible by a machine a machine may be for example a computer network device cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA manufacturing tool any device with one or more processors etc. . For example a machine accessible medium includes recordable non recordable media e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices etc. etc.

Note that any and all of the embodiments described above can be combined with each other except to the extent that it may be stated otherwise above or to the extent that any such embodiments might be mutually exclusive in function and or structure.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be recognized that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

