---

title: Display device and controlling method thereof
abstract: A display device including a display module configured to display a content corresponding to a video on a main screen of the display device; an interface module configured to receive an enlargement input request from a remote controller; and a controller configured to enter an enlargement mode in accordance with the enlargement input request received from the remote controller, display a window including the content displayed on the main screen, display an indicator for selecting a specific area of the displayed content within the displayed window, enlarge the selected specific area of the displayed content, and display the enlarged selected specific area of the displayed content on the main screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554084&OS=09554084&RS=09554084
owner: LG ELECTRONICS INC.
number: 09554084
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20151002
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 a this application claims the benefit of earlier filing date and right of priority to Korean Applications Nos. 10 2015 0033736 filed on Mar. 11 2015 and 10 2015 0047263 filed on Apr. 3 2015 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to a display device and more particularly to a display device and controlling method thereof. Although the present invention is suitable for a wide scope of applications it is particularly suitable for enlarging a user desired portion of an image adjusting a location of the enlarged portion and modifying a screen enlargement magnification on a smart TV STB or the like.

Recently a number of users have used display devices such as a smart TV and the like. According to the related art a user can enlarge a full screen or adjust a screen ratio using a screen ratio adjustment function. However a function of only enlarging a user desired specific portion on a screen has not been supported.

For instance on a TV home shopping channel a user may want to watch and enlarge a detailed part and a price information of a product. According to the related art because the adjustment of the screen ratio or an enlargement of the full screen is only supported it is difficult for a user to enlarge the desiring portion at a time and to recognize which portion of an original screen is enlarged thereby causing inconvenience to the user.

Accordingly embodiments of the present invention are directed to a display device and controlling method thereof that substantially obviate one or more problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

One object of the present invention is to provide a display device and controlling method thereof by which a specific area is enlarged only while outputting video data.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a display device and controlling method thereof by which GUI graphic user interface capable of enabling a user to check an enlarged specific area of original video data more quickly and easily is provided.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a display device and controlling method thereof by which a problem that a coordinate information of video data of a broadcast signal and a coordinate information of a remote controller are different from each other is solved.

Another further object of the present invention is to provide a display device and controlling method thereof by which a solution for automatically executing a specific area enlargement mode in accordance with a category information of video data is provided.

Technical tasks obtainable from the present invention are non limited by the above mentioned technical tasks. And other unmentioned technical tasks can be clearly understood from the following description by those having ordinary skill in the technical field to which the present invention pertains. Additional advantages objects and features of the invention will be set forth in the disclosure herein as well as the accompanying drawings. Such aspects may also be appreciated by those skilled in the art based on the disclosure herein.

To achieve these objects and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the invention as embodied and broadly described herein a method of controlling a display device according to one embodiment of the present invention may include the steps of displaying a content on a main screen of the display device entering an enlargement mode in accordance with an enlargement input request received from a remote controller displaying an window including the content displayed on the main screen displaying an indicator for selecting a specific area of the displayed content within the displayed window enlarging the selected specific area of the displayed content and displaying the enlarged selected specific area of the displayed content on the main screen wherein the content corresponds to a video.

In another aspect of the present invention a display device according to another embodiment of the present invention may include a display module configured to display a content on a main screen of the display device an interface module configured to receive an enlargement input request from a remote controller and a controller controlling both of the display module and the interface module the controller entering an enlargement mode in accordance with the enlargement input request received from the remote controller the controller displaying an window including the content displayed on the main screen the controller displaying an indicator for selecting a specific area of the displayed content within the displayed window the controller enlarging the selected specific area of the displayed content the controller displaying the enlarged selected specific area of the displayed content on the main screen. The content corresponds to a video.

First of all according to one embodiment of the present invention a technique for enlarging a specific area only while outputting video data is provided.

Secondly according to another embodiment of the present invention a GUI capable of enabling a user to check an enlarged specific area of original video data more quickly and easily is provided.

Thirdly according to another embodiment of the present invention a technical effect of solving a problem that a coordinate information of video data of a broadcast signal and a coordinate information of a remote controller are different from each other is provided.

Fourthly according to further embodiment of the present invention a solution for automatically executing a specific area enlargement mode in accordance with a category information of video data is provided.

Effects obtainable from the present invention are non limited by the above mentioned effect. And other unmentioned effects can be clearly understood from the following description by those having ordinary skill in the technical field to which the present invention pertains.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description of the present invention are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

Description will now be given in detail according to embodiments disclosed herein with reference to the accompanying drawings. In general a suffix such as module and unit may be used to refer to elements or components. Use of such a suffix herein is merely intended to facilitate description of the specification and the suffix itself is not intended to give any special meaning or function. Meanwhile such an ordinal number as first second and the like may have a meaning of an order. Yet the terminologies can be used for the purpose of distinguishing one component from another component capable of being overlapped with each other.

The accompanying drawings are used to help easily understand various technical features and it should be understood that the embodiments presented herein are not limited by the accompanying drawings. As such the present disclosure should be construed to extend to any alterations equivalents and substitutes in addition to those which are particularly set out in the accompanying drawings.

A digital device according to an embodiment of the present invention as set forth herein may be any device that can handle any one of transmitting receiving handling and outputting data content servicer application and so forth. The digital device may be connected to other digital devices through a wired network or wireless network paired or connected to external server and through the connections the digital device can transmit and receive the prescribed data. Examples of the digital device include standing devices such as a network TV a Hybrid Broadcast Broadband TV HBBTV a smart TV Internet Protocol TV IPTV and personal computer PC or mobile handheld devices such as a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a smart phone a tablet PC or a Notebook computer. For convenience of description in this specification the Digital TV is used in and the mobile device is used in depicting the digital device. Further the digital device in this specification may be referred to configuration having only a panel set top box STB or a set including the entire system.

Moreover the wired or wireless network described in this specification may refer to various pairing methods standard telecommunication network protocol methods supported for transmitting and receiving data between digital devices or between digital device and external server. The wired or wireless network also includes various telecommunication network protocols supported now as well as in the future. Examples of the wired or wireless network include wired network supported by various telecommunication standard such as Universal Serial Bus USB Composite Video Banking Sync CVBS Component S Video analog Digital Visual Interface DVI High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI RGB D SUB and so forth and wireless network supported by various standards including Bluetooth Radio Frequency Identification RFID infrared Data Association IrDA Ultra Wideband UWB ZigBee Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA Wireless LAN WLAN Wi Fi Wireless broadband Wibro World Interoperability for Microwave Access Wimax High Speed Downlink Packet HSDPA Long Term Evolution LTE Advanced LTE LTE A Wi Fi direct and so forth.

In addition when this specification refers simply to the digital device it can mean a standing device or a mobile device depending on the context and when it is not referred to a specific device the digital device referred in this specification refers to both standing and mobile device. Meanwhile the digital device can perform intelligent functions such as receiving broadcasting program operating computer functions and supporting at least one external input and by being connected through the network wired or wirelessly the digital device can support e mail functions web browsing functions banking gaming and executing applications. The digital device may further include an interface for any one of input or control mechanism hereinafter referred as input means supporting handwriting input touch screen and space remote control.

Furthermore the digital device may use a standard operating system OS however the digital device described in this specification and the embodiments uses a Web OS. Therefore the digital device may perform functions such as adding deleting amending and updating the various services and applications for standard universal OS kernel or Linux kernel in order to construct a more user friendly environment.

When the digital device described above receives and handles external input the external input includes external input devices described above meaning all input mechanisms or digital devices capable of transmitting and receiving data through wired or wireless network connected to and from the digital device. For example the external input includes HDMI game devices such as a Playstation or an X Box a smart phone a tablet PC a printing device such as a pocket photo digital devices such as a smart TV and a blue ray device.

The server referred to as in this application includes a digital device or system capable of transmitting and receiving data to and from client and may also be referred to as a processor. For example the server may be servers providing services such as a portal server providing web page a web content or a web service an advertising server providing advertising data a content server a Social Network Service SNS server providing an SNS service a service server providing a service to a manufacturer a Multichannel Video Programming Distributor MVPD providing a Video on Demand VOD or a streaming service and a service server providing pay services. In this application when an application is described for the convenience of explanation the meaning of application in the context may include services as well as applications.

In the following description various embodiments according to an embodiment of the present invention are explained with reference to attached drawings. In particular is a schematic diagram illustrating a service system including a digital device according to one embodiment of the present invention. Referring to examples of a service system including a digital receiver include a content provider CP a service provider SP a network provider NP and a home network end user FINED Customer . The FINED includes a client that is a digital device.

The CP produces and provides content. Referring to the CP can include a first or second terrestrial broadcaster a cable system operator SO a multiple system operator MSO a satellite broadcaster various Internet broadcasters private content providers CPs etc. The CP can produce and provide various services or applications as well as broadcast content.

Further the SP service packetizes content provided by the CP and provides the content to the FINED . For example the SP packetizes at least one content provided by the first or second terrestrial broadcaster the cable SO the MSO the satellite broadcaster various Internet broadcasters the private CPs for service and provides it to the FINED . The SP can provide services to the client in a uni cast or multi cast manner. Meanwhile the SP can transmit data to plurality of clients which are previously registered at once and Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP may be used in transmission.

The CP and the SP can be configured in the form of one entity. For example the CP can function as the SP by producing content and directly packetizing the produced content into services and vice versa. In addition the NP can provide a network environment for data exchange between the CP and or SP and the client .

The client a consumer included in the FINED can construct a home network receive data and transmit receive data for various services or applications such as a VOD a streaming and the like via the NP . The CP and or SP included in the service system can use a conditional access or a content protection mechanism for protecting content transmitted. In this instance the client can use a processing mechanism such as a cable card or Point of Deployment POD or a downloadable conditional access system DCAS for the conditional access or protecting content.

In addition the client can use a bi directional service through a network. In this instance the client can perform or function as the CP . In addition the SP can transmit it to another client. In the CP and or SP can be a server providing service which specifies below in the disclosure. In this instance the server can include the NP if necessary. Further service or service data can include not only a service or application received from the external server but also an internal service or application as mentioned above. This service or application is a defined service data or application data for the client based on the Web OS.

Next is a block diagram showing a digital device according to one embodiment of the present invention. In the disclosure the digital device can correspond to the client shown in . The digital device can include a network interface a TCP IP Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol manager a service delivery manager an SI System Information Service Information or Signaling Information decoder a demultiplexer an audio decoder a video decoder a display A V Audio Video and OSD On Screen Display module a service control manager a service discovery manager a SI metadata database DB a metadata manager a service manager a UI User Interface manager etc.

The network interface can receive or transmit IP Internet Protocol packets or IP datagrams hereinafter referred as IP packets through an accessed network. As an example the network interface can receive service application content etc. from the SP of through the network. The TCP IP manager is involved in packet delivery of IP packets transmitted to the digital device and IP packets transmitted from the digital device between a source and a destination. The TCP IP manager may classify received packets according to an appropriate protocol and output the classified packets to the service delivery manager the service discovery manager the service control manager and the metadata manager etc.

The service delivery manager can control received service data. For example the service delivery manager can use Real Time Protocol Real Time Control Protocol RTP RTCP to control real time streaming data. If the real time streaming data is transmitted using the RTP the service delivery manager can parse a received real time streaming data packet transmitted based on the RTP and transmit the parsed data packet to the demultiplexer or store the parsed data packet in the SI metadata DB under the control of the service manager . The service delivery manager can also provide feedback of the network reception information to the server based on the RTCP.

The demultiplexer can demultiplex audio data video data SI data from a received packet and transmit the demultiplexed data to each of the audio video decoder and the SI decoder . The SI decoder can decode the demultiplexed SI data such as program specific information PSI program and system information protocol PSIP digital video broadcast service information DVB SI digital television terrestrial multimedia broadcasting coding mobile multimedia broadcasting DTMB CMMB etc. The SI decoder can also store the decoded SI data in the SI metadata DB . Further the SI data stored in the SI metadata DB can be read and extracted by a component which requires the SI data according to a user request for example.

The audio decoder and the video decoder can decode the demultiplexed audio and video data respectively. The decoded audio data and video data can be provided to the user through the display unit . The application manager can include the service manager and the UI manager for example. The application manager can perform a function of the controller of the digital device . In other words the application manager can administrate the overall state of the digital receiver provides a UI and manage other mangers.

The UI manager can provide a graphic user interface GUI UI for the user using OSD etc. And the UI manager can receive a key input from the user and perform an operation of the device in response to the received key input. For example the UI manager can transmit a key input signal to the service manager if the key input signal of selecting a channel is received from the user.

The service manager can control service related managers such as the service delivery manager the service discovery manager the service control manager and the metadata manager . The service manager can generate a channel map and control a channel selection using the generated channel map according to the received key input from the UI manager . The service manager can receive service information from the SI decoder and set audio video PID packet identifier of a selected channel to the demultiplexer . The set audio video PID can be used for the demultiplexing procedure. Accordingly the demultiplexer can filter the audio data video data and SI data using the PID PID filtering or section filtering. 

The service discovery manager can provide information required to select a service provider that provides a service. Upon receipt of a signal for selecting a channel from the service manager the service discovery manager discovers or searches a service based on the received signal. The service control manager can select and control a service. For example the service control manager can use perform service selection and control using IGMP or real time streaming protocol RTSP when the user selects a live broadcast service and using RTSP when the user selects a VOD service. The RTSP can provide a trick mode for the real time streaming. Also the service manager can initialize and manage a session through the IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem gateway using IMS and SIP Session Initiation Protocol. The above protocols are just an example and other protocols can be used depending on an implementation.

The metadata manager can manage metadata regarding services and store metadata in the SI metadata DB . The SI metadata DB can store SI data decoded by the SI decoder metadata managed by the metadata manager and information required to select a service provider which is provided by the service discovery manager . In addition the SI metadata DB can store system set up data etc. The SI metadata DB can be implemented using a Non Volatile RAM NVRAM or a Flash memory and the like. An IMS gateway can be a gateway that collects functions required to access IPTV services based on an IMS.

Next is a block diagram illustrating the digital device according to another embodiment of the present invention. explained above refers to a standing device as according to an embodiment of the digital device but refers to a mobile device as another embodiment of the digital device

With reference to the mobile terminal can include a wireless communication unit an A V input unit an user input unit a sensing unit an output unit a memory an interface unit a controller and a power supply unit . Each element is explained in detail as follows.

The wireless communication unit typically includes one or more components which permit wireless communication between the mobile terminal and a wireless communication system or network within which the mobile terminal is located. For instance the wireless communication unit can include a broadcast receiving module a mobile communication module a wireless Internet module a short range communication or local area network module and a position location module .

The broadcast receiving module receives a broadcast signal and or broadcast associated information from an external broadcast managing server via a broadcast channel. The broadcast channel may include a satellite channel and a terrestrial channel. At least two broadcast receiving modules can be provided in the mobile terminal to facilitate simultaneous reception of at least two broadcast channels or broadcast channel switching.

The broadcast associated information includes information associated with a broadcast channel a broadcast program or a broadcast service provider. Furthermore the broadcast associated information can be provided via a mobile communication network. In this instance the broadcast associated information can be received by the mobile communication module . The broadcast associated information can be implemented in various forms. For instance broadcast associated information may include an electronic program guide EPG and an electronic service guide ESG .

The broadcast receiving module may be configured to receive broadcast signals transmitted from various types of broadcast systems. By non limiting example such broadcasting systems may include digital video broadcasting Terrestrial DVB T DVB Satellite DVB S DVB Handheld DVB H DVB Convergence of Broadcasting and Mobile Services DVB CBMS Open Mobile Alliance Broadcast OMA BCAST the data broadcasting system known as media forward link only MediaFLO and integrated services digital broadcast terrestrial ISDB T . Optionally the broadcast receiving module can be configured to be suitable for other broadcasting systems as well as the above noted digital broadcasting systems. The broadcast signal and or broadcast associated information received by the broadcast receiving module may be stored in a suitable device such as the memory .

The mobile communication module transmits receives wireless signals to from one or more network entities e.g. a base station an external terminal and or a server via a mobile network such as GSM Global System for Mobile communications CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or WCDMA Wideband CDMA . Such wireless signals may carry audio video and data according to text multimedia messages.

The wireless Internet module supports Internet access for the mobile terminal . This module may be internally or externally coupled to the mobile terminal . The wireless Internet technology can include WLAN Wi Fi Wibro Wimax or HSDPA. The short range communication module facilitates relatively short range communications. Suitable technologies for implementing this module include RFID IrDA UWB as well as the networking technologies commonly referred to as Bluetooth and ZigBee to name a few.

The position location module identifies or otherwise obtains the location of the mobile terminal . According to one embodiment this module may be implemented with a global positioning system GPS module. The GPS module can precisely calculate current 3 dimensional position information based on at least longitude latitude or altitude and direction or orientation by calculating distance information and precise time information from at least three satellites and then applying triangulation to the calculated information. Location information and time information are calculated using three satellites and errors of the calculated location position and one or more time information are then amended or corrected using another satellite. In addition the GPS module can calculate speed information by continuously calculating a real time current location.

With continued reference to the A V input unit is configured to provide audio or video signal input to the mobile terminal . As shown the A V input unit includes a camera and a microphone . The camera receives and processes image frames of still pictures or video which are obtained by an image sensor in a video call mode or a photographing mode. Furthermore the processed image frames can be displayed on the display unit .

The image frames processed by the camera can be stored in the memory or can be transmitted to an external recipient via the wireless communication unit . Optionally at least two cameras can be provided in the mobile terminal according to the environment of usage.

The microphone receives an external audio signal while the portable device is in a particular mode such as phone call mode recording mode and voice recognition. This audio signal is processed and converted into electronic audio data. The processed audio data is transformed into a format transmittable to a mobile communication base station via the mobile communication module in a call mode. The microphone typically includes assorted noise removing algorithms to remove noise generated while receiving the external audio signal.

Further the user input unit generates input data responsive to user manipulation of an associated input device or devices. Examples of such devices include a keypad a dome switch a touchpad e.g. static pressure capacitance a jog wheel and a jog switch.

The sensing unit provides sensing signals for controlling operations of the mobile terminal using status measurements of various aspects of the mobile terminal. For instance the sensing unit can detect an open closed status of the mobile terminal the relative positioning of components e.g. a display and keypad of the mobile terminal a change of position or location of the mobile terminal or a component of the mobile terminal a presence or absence of user contact with the mobile terminal and an orientation or acceleration deceleration of the mobile terminal . As an example a mobile terminal configured as a slide type mobile terminal is considered. In this configuration the sensing unit can sense whether a sliding portion of the mobile terminal is open or closed. According to other examples the sensing unit senses the presence or absence of power provided by the power supply unit and the presence or absence of a coupling or other connection between the interface unit and an external device. According to one embodiment the sensing unit can include a proximity sensor .

The output unit generates output relevant to the senses of sight hearing and touch. Furthermore the output unit includes the display unit an audio or sound output module an alarm module a haptic module and a projector module . The display unit is typically implemented to visually display output information associated with the mobile terminal . For instance if the mobile terminal is operating in a phone call mode the display will generally provide a UI or GUI which includes information associated with placing conducting and terminating a phone call. As another example if the mobile terminal is in a video call mode or a photographing mode the display unit can additionally or alternatively display images which are associated with these modes the UI or the GUI.

The display unit may be implemented using known display technologies. These technologies include for example a liquid crystal display LCD a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD an organic light emitting diode display OLED a flexible display and a three dimensional display. The mobile terminal may include one or more of such displays.

Some of the displays can be implemented in a transparent or optical transmittive type i.e. a transparent display. A representative example of the transparent display is the TOLED Transparent OLED . A rear configuration of the display unit can be implemented as the optical transmittive type as well. In this configuration a user can see an object located at the rear of a terminal body on a portion of the display unit of the terminal body.

At least two display units can be provided in the mobile terminal in accordance with one embodiment of the mobile terminal . For instance a plurality of displays can be arranged to be spaced apart from each other or to form a single body on a single face of the mobile terminal . Alternatively a plurality of displays can be arranged on different faces of the mobile terminal .

If the display unit and a sensor for detecting a touch action hereinafter called touch sensor are configured as a mutual layer structure hereinafter called touch screen the display unit is usable as an input device as well as an output device. In this instance the touch sensor can be configured as a touch film a touch sheet or a touchpad.

The touch sensor can be configured to convert pressure applied to a specific portion of the display unit or a variation of capacitance generated from a specific portion of the display unit to an electronic input signal. Moreover the touch sensor is configurable to detect pressure of a touch as well as a touched position or size. If a touch input is made to the touch sensor a signal s corresponding to the touch input is transferred to a touch controller. The touch controller processes the signal s and then transfers the processed signal s to the controller . Therefore the controller is made aware when a prescribed portion of the display unit is touched.

A proximity sensor can be provided at an internal area of the mobile terminal enclosed by the touch screen or around the touch screen. The proximity sensor is a sensor that detects a presence or non presence of an object approaching a prescribed detecting surface or an object existing or located around the proximity sensor using an electromagnetic field strength or infrared ray without mechanical contact. Hence the proximity sensor is more durable than a contact type sensor and also has utility broader than the contact type sensor.

For example the proximity sensor can include one of a transmittive photoelectric sensor a direct reflective photoelectric sensor a mirror reflective photoelectric sensor a radio frequency oscillation proximity sensor an electrostatic capacity proximity sensor a magnetic proximity sensor and an infrared proximity sensor. If the touch screen includes the electrostatic capacity proximity sensor it is configured to detect the proximity of a pointer using a variation of an electric field according to the proximity of the pointer. In this configuration the touch screen touch sensor can be considered as the proximity sensor.

For clarity and convenience of explanation an action for enabling the pointer approaching the touch screen to be recognized as placed on the touch screen may be named proximity touch and an action of enabling the pointer to actually come into contact with the touch screen may be named contact touch . Further a position at which the proximity touch is made to the touch screen using the pointer may mean a position of the pointer vertically corresponding to the touch screen when the pointer makes the proximity touch.

The proximity sensor detects a proximity touch and a proximity touch pattern e.g. a proximity touch distance a proximity touch duration a proximity touch position a proximity touch shift state . Information corresponding to the detected proximity touch action and the detected proximity touch pattern can be output to the touch screen.

The audio or sound output module functions in various modes including a call receiving mode a call placing mode a recording mode a voice recognition mode and a broadcast reception mode to output audio data which is received from the wireless communication unit or is stored in the memory . During operation the audio output module outputs audio relating to a particular function e.g. call received message received . The audio output module may be implemented using one or more speakers buzzers other audio producing devices and combinations of these devices.

The alarm module outputs a signal for announcing the occurrence of a particular event associated with the mobile terminal . Typical events include a call received a message received and a touch input received. The alarm module can output a signal for announcing the event occurrence by way of vibration as well as video or audio signal. The video or audio signal can be output via the display unit or the audio output module . Hence the display unit or the audio output module can be regarded as a part of the alarm module .

The haptic module generates various tactile effects that can be sensed by a user. Vibration is a representative one of the tactile effects generated by the haptic module . The strength and pattern of the vibration generated by the haptic module are controllable. For instance different vibrations can be output by being synthesized together or can be output in sequence. The haptic module can generate various tactile effects as well as the vibration. For instance the haptic module can generate an effect attributed to the arrangement of pins vertically moving against a contact skin surface an effect attributed to the injection suction power of air though an injection suction hole an effect attributed to the skim over a skin surface an effect attributed to a contact with an electrode an effect attributed to an electrostatic force and an effect attributed to the representation of a hot cold sense using an endothermic or exothermic device. The haptic module can be implemented to enable a user to sense the tactile effect through a muscle sense of a finger or an arm as well as to transfer the tactile effect through direct contact. Optionally at least two haptic modules can be provided in the mobile terminal in accordance with an embodiment of the mobile terminal .

The memory is generally used to store various types of data to support the processing control and storage requirements of the mobile terminal . Examples of such data include program instructions for applications operating on the mobile terminal contact data phonebook data messages audio still pictures or photo and moving pictures. Furthermore a recent use history or a cumulative use frequency of each data e.g. use frequency for each phonebook each message or each multimedia file can be stored in the memory . Moreover data for various patterns of vibration and or sound output in response to a touch input to the touch screen can be stored in the memory .

The memory may be implemented using any type or combination of suitable volatile and non volatile memory or storage devices including hard disk random access memory RAM static random access memory SRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM programmable read only memory PROM read only memory ROM magnetic memory flash memory magnetic or optical disk multimedia card micro type memory card type memory e.g. SD memory or XD memory or other similar memory or data storage device. Furthermore the mobile terminal can operate in association with a web storage for performing a storage function of the memory on the Internet.

The interface unit may be implemented to couple the mobile terminal with external devices. The interface unit receives data from the external devices or is supplied with power and then transfers the data or power to the respective elements of the mobile terminal or enables data within the mobile terminal to be transferred to the external devices. The interface unit may be configured using a wired wireless headset port an external charger port a wired wireless data port a memory card port a port for coupling to a device having an identity module audio input output ports video input output ports and or an earphone port.

The identity module is a chip for storing various kinds of information for authenticating a usage authority of the mobile terminal and can include a User Identify Module UIM a Subscriber Identity Module SIM and or a Universal Subscriber Identity Module USIM . A device having the identity module hereinafter called identity device can be manufactured as a smart card. Therefore the identity device is connectible to the mobile terminal via the corresponding port.

When the mobile terminal is connected to an external cradle the interface unit becomes a passage for supplying the mobile terminal with a power from the cradle or a passage for delivering various command signals input from the cradle by a user to the mobile terminal . Each of the various command signals input from the cradle or the power can operate as a signal enabling the mobile terminal to recognize that it is correctly loaded in the cradle.

The controller typically controls the overall operations of the mobile terminal . For example the controller performs the control and processing associated with voice calls data communications and video calls. The controller may include a multimedia module that provides multimedia playback. The multimedia module may be configured as part of the controller or implemented as a separate component. Moreover the controller can perform a pattern or image recognizing process for recognizing a writing input and a picture drawing input performed on the touch screen as characters or images respectively.

The power supply unit provides power required by various components of the mobile terminal . The power may be internal power external power or combinations of internal and external power.

Various embodiments described herein may be implemented in a computer readable medium using for example computer software hardware or some combination of computer software and hardware. For a hardware implementation the embodiments described herein may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a selective combination thereof. Such embodiments may also be implemented by the controller .

For a software implementation the embodiments described herein may be implemented with separate software modules such as procedures and functions each of which performs one or more of the functions and operations described herein. The software codes can be implemented with a software application written in any suitable programming language and may be stored in memory such as the memory and executed by a controller or processor such as the controller .

The tuner can receive a radio frequency RF broadcast signal through an antenna by tuning to a channel selected by the user or all previously stored channels. Also the tuner can convert the received RF broadcast signal into an IF Intermediate Frequency signal or a baseband signal. For example if the received RF broadcast signal is a digital broadcast signal it is converted to a digital IF DIF signal and if the received RF broadcast signal is an analog broadcast signal it is converted to an analog baseband image or a voice signal CVBS SIF . That is the tuner can process both the digital broadcast signal and the analog broadcast signal. The analog baseband image or a voice signal CVBS SIF output from the tuner can be directly input to the controller .

The tuner can receive a RF broadcast signal of single carrier or multiple carriers. The tuner can sequentially tune and receive a RF broadcast signal of all broadcast channel stored by a channel memory function among RF broadcast signal received through an antenna to. And the tuner can covert the received RF broadcast signal into the DIF Digital Intermediate Frequency or baseband frequency. The demodulating unit receives the DIF signal demodulates the received DIF signal and performs a channel decoding etc. For this the demodulating unit includes a trellis decoder a de interleaver a Reed Solomon decoder etc. or includes a convolution decoder the de interleaver the Reed Solomon decoder etc.

The demodulating unit can output a transport stream TS after performing a demodulation and a channel decoding. At this time the TS signal can be a signal by multiplexing a video signal an audio signal or a data signal. As an example the TS signal can be an MPEG 2 TS by multiplexing an MPEG 2 standard video signal a Dolby AC 3 standard audio signal etc.

A TS signal output from the demodulating unit can be input to the controller . The controller can control demultiplexing processing audio video signal etc. Furthermore the controller can control outputting video through the display unit and outputting audio through the audio output unit .

The external device interface unit can provide an environment for interfacing external devices with the digital device . To implement this the external device interface unit can include an A V input output unit or an RF communication unit. The external device interface unit can be connected with external devices such as a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray player a game device a camera a camcorder a computer notebook computer a tablet PC a smart phone a Bluetooth device a Cloud and the like in a wired wireless manner. The external device interface unit transfer a signal to the controller of the digital device. The signal includes image data video data audio data which is input through an external device. The external device is connected to the digital device. The controller can control to output the signal including the processed image data the processed video data and the processed audio data to the connected external device. For this the external device interface unit can further include an A V input output unit or a wireless communication unit.

The A V input output unit may include a USB terminal a CVBS terminal a component terminal an S video terminal analog a DVI terminal a HDMI terminal an RGB terminal a D SUB terminal etc. The RF communication unit can perform near field communication. The digital device can be networked with other electronic apparatuses according to communication protocols such as Bluetooth RFID IrDA UWB ZigBee and DLNA for example.

Also the external device interface unit can connect a STB via at least one interface described above and perform an input output operation with the connected STB. Meanwhile the external device interface unit can receive application or application list included in a nearby external device and can transfer the application or the application list to the controller or the storage unit .

The network interface unit network interface unit may provide an interface for connecting the digital receiver to wired wireless networks. For example the network interface unit network interface unit includes an Ethernet port for connecting to a wire network and WLAN Wi Fi Wibro Wimax HSDPA and the like for connecting to a wireless network.

Using the network interface unit network interface unit the digital receiver can transmit receive data to from other users or other electronic apparatuses or access a predetermined web page through a network connected thereto or another network linked to the connected network. Especially the network interface unit network interface unit can transmit some part of content data stored in the digital device to another user pre registered in the digital device a selected user of another digital device or a selected digital device.

Meanwhile the network interface unit network interface unit can connect a web page via a connected network or another network linked to the connected network. That is the network interface unit network interface unit can transmit or receive data to from a corresponding server by connecting the web page through the network. Additionally the network interface unit can receive content or data from a CP or an NP. In other words the network interface unit can receive the content and the content related to a movie a commercial a game a VOD a broadcast signal and the like from the CP or the NP through the network. Also the network interface unit can receive update information of a firmware and an update file from the NP. And the network interface unit can transmit data to an internet provider CP or NP.

Also the network interface unit can select a wanted application among open applications and the selected application via a network. The storage unit may store programs for signal processing and control and store a processed video audio or data signal. In addition the storage unit may execute a function of temporarily storing a video audio or data signal input from the external device interface unit or the network interface unit . The storage unit may store information about a predetermined broadcast channel through a channel memory function.

The storage unit can store an application or a list of applications input from the external device interface unit or the network interface unit . The storage unit may store various platforms which will be described later. The storage unit can include storage media of one or more types such as a flash memory type a hard disk type a multimedia card micro type a card type memory e.g. SD or XD memory RAM EEPROM etc. The digital receiver may reproduce content files a video file a still image file a music file a text file an application file etc. and provide them to the user.

While illustrates an embodiment in which the storage unit is separated from the controller the configuration of the digital receiver is not limited thereto and the storage unit may be included in the controller . The user input interface unit may transmit a signal input by the user to the controller or deliver a signal output from the controller to the user.

For example the user input interface unit can receive control signals such as a power on off signal a channel selection signal an image setting signal etc. from the remote control device or transmit control signals of the controller to the remote control device according to various communication schemes such as RF communication IR communication and the like.

The user input interface unit can transmit control signals input through a power key a channel key a volume key and a local key of a set value to the controller . The user input interface unit can transmit a control signal input from a sensing unit which senses a gesture of the user or deliver a signal of the controller to the sensing unit. Here the sensing unit may include a touch sensor a voice sensor a position sensor an action sensor an acceleration sensor a gyro sensor a speed sensor a tilt sensor a temperature sensor a pressure or back pressure sensor etc.

The controller can generate and output a signal for video or audio output by demultiplexing streams input through the tuner the demodulating unit or the external device interface unit or processing demultiplexed signals. A video signal processed by the controller can be input to the display unit and displayed as an image through the display unit . In addition the video signal processed by the controller can be input to an external output device through the external device interface unit .

An audio signal processed by the controller can be applied to the audio output unit . Otherwise the audio signal processed by the controller can be applied to an external output device through the external device interface unit . The controller may include a demultiplexer and an image processor which are not shown in .

The controller can control the overall operation of the digital receiver . For example the controller can control the tuner to tune to an RF broadcast corresponding to a channel selected by the user or a previously stored channel. The controller can control the digital receiver according to a user command input through the user input interface unit or an internal program. Particularly the controller can control the digital receiver to be linked to a network to download an application or application list that the user desires to the digital receiver .

For example the controller can control the tuner to receive a signal of a channel selected in response to a predetermined channel selection command received through the user input interface unit . In addition the controller can process a video audio or data signal corresponding to the selected channel. The controller can control information on a channel selected by the user to be output with a processed video or audio signal through the display unit or the audio output unit .

Alternatively the controller can control a video signal or an audio signal received from an external apparatus for example a camera or a camcorder through the external device interface unit to be output through the display unit or the audio output unit according to an external device image reproduction command received through the user input interface unit .

The controller can control the display unit to display images. For example the controller can control a broadcast image input through the tuner an external input image received through the external device interface unit an image input through the network interface unit or an image stored in the storage unit to be displayed on the display unit . Here an image displayed on the display unit can be a still image or video and it can be a 2D or 3D image.

The controller can also control reproduction of content. Here the content may be content stored in the digital receiver received broadcast content or content input from an external device. The content may include at least one of a broadcast image an external input image an audio file a still image an image of a linked web and a text file.

The controller can control display of applications or an application list downloadable from the digital receiver or an external network when an application view menu is selected and control installation and execution of applications downloaded from an external network in addition to various UIs. Furthermore the controller can control an image relating to an application executed by user selection to be displayed on the display unit .

The digital receiver may further include a channel browsing processor which generates a thumbnail image corresponding to a channel signal or an external input signal. The channel browsing processor can receive a stream signal e.g. TS output from the demodulating unit or a stream signal output from the external device interface unit and extract an image from the received stream signal to generate a thumbnail image. The generated thumbnail image can be directly input to the controller or can be encoded and then input to the controller . Also the thumbnail image can be coded into a stream and then applied to the controller . The controller can display a thumbnail list including a plurality of thumbnail images on the display unit using thumbnail images input thereto. The thumbnail images included in the thumbnail list can be updated sequentially or simultaneously. Accordingly the user can conveniently check content of a plurality of broadcast channels.

The display unit can convert a video signal a data signal and an OSD signal processed by the controller and a video signal and a data signal received from the external device interface unit into RGB signals to generate driving signals. The display unit may be a PDP an LCD an OLED a flexible display a 3D display or the like. The display unit may be configured as a touch screen and used as an input device rather than an output device.

The audio output unit receives a signal audio processed by the controller for example a stereo signal a 3.1 channel signal or a 5.1 channel signal and outputs the received signal as audio. The audio output unit can be configured as one of various speakers. The digital receiver may further include the sensing unit for sensing a gesture of the user which includes at least one of a touch sensor a voice sensor a position sensor and an action sensor as described above. A signal sensed by the sensing unit can be delivered to the controller through the user input interface unit .

The digital receiver may further include a photographing unit for photographing the user. Image information acquired by the photographing unit can be supplied to the controller . The controller can also sense a gesture of the user from an image captured by the photographing unit or a signal sensed by the sensing unit or by combining the image and the signal.

The power supply unit supplies power to the digital receiver . Particularly the power supply unit can supply power to the controller which can be implemented as a system on chip SoC the display unit for displaying images and the audio output unit for audio output. The power supply unit can include a converter converting a alternating source into a direct source. For example when the display unit is implemented as a liquid panel including a plurality of backlight lamps the power supply unit can include an inverter which is capable of performing a Pulse Width Modulation PWM for changing or dimming a luminance.

The remote control device may transmit user input to the user input interface unit . To achieve this the remote control device can use Bluetooth RF communication IR communication UWB ZigBee etc. In addition the remote control device can receive audio video or data signal output from the user input interface and display the received signal or output the same as audio or vibration.

The above mentioned digital device can be a digital broadcast receiver which is capable of processing a digital broadcast signal of a fixed or mobile ATSC method or a digital broadcast signal of a DVB method. Some of the components shown in may be omitted or a component not shown in may be added as required. The digital receiver according to an embodiment of the present invention may not include the tuner and the demodulator differently from the digital receivers shown in and may receive content through the network interface or the external device interface and reproduce the content.

Next is a block diagram illustrating the detailed configuration of each of the controllers of according to one embodiment of the present invention. The digital receiver according to an embodiment of the present invention may include a demultiplexing unit an image processor an OSD generating unit a mixer a frame rate converter FRC and a 3D formatter or an Output formatter .

The demultiplexing unit can demultiplex an input stream signal into an MPEG 2 TS image an audio signal and a data signal for example. The image processor can process a demultiplexed image signal using a video decoder and a scaler . The video decoder can decode the demultiplexed image signal and the scaler can scale the resolution of the decoded image signal such that the image signal can be displayed.

The video decoder can support various standards. For example the video decoder can perform a function as an MPEG 2 decoder when the video signal is coded in an MPEG 2 standard. The video decoder can perform a function as a H.264 decoder when the video signal is coded in a digital multimedia broadcasting DMB method or the H.264 standard method.

The image signal decoded by the image processor is input to the mixer . The OSD generating unit can generate OSD data automatically or according to user input. For example the OSD generating unit may generate data to be displayed on the screen of an output unit in the form of an image or text based on a control signal of a user input interface. OSD data generated by the OSD generating unit may include various data such as a UI image of the digital receiver various menu screens widget icons and information on ratings. The OSD generating unit can generate a caption of a broadcast image or data for displaying EPG based broadcast information.

The mixer mixes the OSD data generated by the OSD generating unit and the image signal processed by the image processor . The mixer then provides the mixed signal to the 3D formatter . By mixing the decoded image signal and the OSD data OSD may be overlaid on a broadcast image or external input image.

The frame rate converter FRC converts a frame rate of input video. For example the frame rate converter can convert the frame rate of an input 60 Hz video to a frame rate of 120 Hz or 240 Hz according to an output frequency of the output unit. The frame rate converter may be bypassed when frame conversion is not executed.

The 3D formatter may change the output of the frame rate converter which is input thereto into a form suitable for the output format of the output unit. For example the 3D formatter can output an RGB data signal. In this instance this RGB data signal can be output according to low voltage differential signaling LVDS or mini LVDS. When a 3D image signal output from the frame rate converter is input to the 3D formatter the 3D formatter can format the 3D image signal such that the 3D image signal is matched to the output format of the output unit to thereby support a 3D service.

An audio processor may audio process a demultiplexed audio signal. The audio processor can support various audio formats. For example when audio signals are encoded in MPEG 2 MPEG 4 advanced audio coding AAC high efficiency AAC HE AAC AC 3 and bit sliced audio coding BSAC formats the audio processor can include decoders corresponding to the formats to process the audio signals. Furthermore the audio processor can control base treble and volume.

In addition a data processor can process a demultiplexed data signal. For example when a demultiplexed data signal is encoded the data processor can decode the encoded demultiplexed data signal. Here the encoded data signal may be EPG information including broadcast information such as the start time and end time or duration of a broadcast program which is broadcast through each channel.

Meanwhile the above mentioned digital device as an embodiment according to the present invention each component can be integrated added or omitted according to a capability of the digital device which is actually implemented. That is if necessary at least two components are united into a single component or a single component is divided into at least two components. Also a function performed by each block explains an embodiment of the present invention but the specific operation or device is not limited to a scope of the present invention.

Meanwhile the digital device can be an image signal processing device for performing a signal of an input image or an image stored in the device. Other example of the image signal device can be a STB which does not include the display unit and the audio output unit shown in a DVD player a Blu ray player a game device a computer etc.

Next is a diagram illustrating an input unit connected to each of the digital devices of according to one embodiment of the present invention. To execute various operations for implementing the present invention according to embodiments various user interface devices UIDs which can communicate with a digital receiver in a wired wireless manner can be used as remote controllers.

UIDs can include a mobile device e.g. a smart phone a tablet PC and the like a magic remote controller and a remote controller equipped with a keyboard and a touch pad in addition to a general remote controller . The remote controllers can use various communication protocols such as Bluetooth RFID IrDA UWB ZigBee DLNA etc.

The magic remote controller may include a gyro sensor mounted therein to sense vibration of a user s hand or rotation. That is the magic remote controller can move a pointer according to up down left and right motions of the user such that the user can easily execute a desired action for example easily control a channel or a menu. The remote controller including the keyboard and touch pad can facilitate text input through the keyboard and control of movement of a pointer and magnification and reduction of a picture or video through the touch pad.

The keyboard has been implemented so that it is similar to a keyboard of a PC in order to conveniently input text because the traditional remote control is not sufficient enough to control the digital device since the digital device offers more than just providing broadcast programs as it did before but has advanced into an intelligent integrated digital device providing web browser application SNS and the like. Meanwhile the control mechanism such as the remote control the pointing device and the keyboard can if necessary include a touchpad to control functions of text input move the pointer enlarging reducing pictures and video clips more conveniently.

The digital device described in the present specification uses Web OS as a platform. Hereinafter a Web OS based process or algorithm may be performed by the controller of the above described digital device. The controller includes the controllers of and has wide concepts. Accordingly hereinafter a component for processing Web OS based services applications content etc. including software firmware or hardware in a digital device is referred to a controller.

Such a Web OS based platform improves development independency and functional extensibility by integrating services applications etc. based on a Luna service bus for example and increases application development productivity based on web application framework. In addition system resources etc. can be efficiently used via a Web OS process and resource management to support multitasking.

A Web OS platform described in the present specification may be available not only for stationary devices such as PCs TVs and STBs but also for mobile devices such as cellular phones smartphones tablet PCs laptops and wearable devices. A software structure for a digital device is a monolithic structure which solves conventional problems depending on markets is a single process and closed product based on multi threading and has difficulties in terms of external applications. In pursuit of new platform based development cost innovation via chipset replacement and UI application and external application development efficiency layering and componentization are performed to obtain a 3 layered structure and an add on structure for an add on a single source product and an open application. Recently modular design of a software structure has been conducted in order to provide a web open application programming interface API for an echo system and modular architecture of a functional unit or a native open API for a game engine and thus a multi process structure based on a service structure has been produced.

The architecture of the Web OS platform has a layered structure. OSs are provided at a lowest layer system library s are provided at a next highest layer and applications are provided at the highest layer. First the lowest layer is an OS layer including a Linux kernel such that Linux is included as an OS of the digital device.

At layers higher than the OS layer a board support package BSP hardware abstraction layer HAL layer a Web OS core modules layer a service layer a Luna service bus layer and an Enyo framework native developer s kit NDK QT layer are sequentially provided. At the highest layer an application layer is provided. Some layers of the above described Web OS layered structure may be omitted and a plurality of layers may be combined to one layer and one layer may be divided into a plurality of layers.

The Web OS core module layer may include a Luna surface manager LSM for managing a surface window etc. a system application manager SAM for managing execution and performance status of applications etc. and a web application manager WAM for managing web applications based on WebKit. The LSM manages an application window displayed on a screen. The LSM may control display hardware HW and provide a buffer for rendering content necessary for applications and compose and output results of rendering a plurality of applications on a screen.

The SAM manages policy according to several conditions of systems and applications. The WAM is based on Enyo framework because a Web OS regards a web application as a basic application. An application may use a service via a Luna service bus. A service may be newly registered via a bus and the application may detect and use a desired service. The service layer may include services having various service levels such as a TV service a Web OS service etc. The Web OS service may include a media server Node.JS etc. and in particular the Node.JS service supports JavaScript for example.

The Web OS service may be communicated to a Linux process implementing function logic via a bus. This Web OS service is largely divided into four parts migrates from a TV process and an existing TV to a Web OS is developed as services which differ between manufacturers Web OS common services and JavaScripts and is composed of the Node.js service used via Node.js.

The application layer may include all applications supportable by a digital device such as a TV application a showcase application a native application a web application etc. Applications on the Web OS may be divided into a web application a palm development kit PDK application a Qt Meta Language or Qt Modeling Language QML application etc. according to implementation methods.

The web application is based on a WebKit engine and is performed on WAM runtime. Such a web application is based on Enyo framework or may be developed and performed based on general HTML5 cascading style sheets CSS and JavaScripts. The PDK application includes a native application developed with C C based on a PDK provided for a third party or an external developer. The PDK refers to a set of development libraries and tools provided to enable a third party to develop a native application C C such as games. For example the PDK application may be used to develop applications requiring high performance.

The QML application is a Qt based native application and includes basic applications provided along with the Web OS platform such as card view home dashboard virtual keyboard etc. QML is a markup language of a script format not C . The native application is an application which is developed and compiled using C C and is executed in the binary form and has an advantage such as high execution speed.

Node.js services based on HTML5 such as e mail contact or calendar CSS JavaScript etc. Web OS services such as logging backup file notify database DB activity manager system policy audio daemon AudioD update media server etc. TV services such as electronic program guide EPG personal video recorder PVR data broadcasting etc. CP services such as voice recognition now on notification search auto content recognition ACR contents list browser CBOX wfdd DMR remote application download Sony Philips digital interface format SDPIF etc. native applications such as PDK applications browsers QML applications a UI related TV applications based on Enyo framework and web applications are processed via Web OS core modules such as the above described SAM WAM and LSM via the Luna service bus. The TV applications and the web applications are not necessarily based on Enyo framework or related to UI.

The CBOX may manage metadata and lists of content of external devices such as USB drivers DLNA devices or Cloud servers connected to a TV. The CBOX may output content listing of various content containers such as USB DMS DVR Cloud server etc. as an integrated view. The CBOX may display various types of content listings such as pictures music or video and manage metadata thereof. The CBOX may output content of an attached storage in real time. For example if a storage device such as a USB is plugged in the CBOX should immediately output a content list of the storage device. At this time a standardized method for processing the content listing may be defined. The CBOX may accommodate various connection protocols.

The SAM is used to improve module complexity and extensibility. For example an existing system manager processes several functions such as system UI window management web application runtime and UX constraint processing via one process and thus has high implementation complexity. In order to solve such a problem the SAM divides main functions and clarifies an interface between functions thereby decreasing implementation complexity.

The LSM is supported to independently develop and integrate a system UX such as card view launcher etc. and to easily cope with change in product requirements. The LSM maximally uses hardware resources to enable multitasking if a plurality of application screens is composed using an app on app method and may provide a window management mechanism for 21 9 and a multi window.

The LSM supports implementation of a system UI based on a QML and improves development productivity. QML UX may easily configure a view using a screen layout and UI components based on MVC and easily develop code for processing user input. An interface between the QML and the Web OS component is achieved via a QML extensibility plug in and graphic operation of an application may be based on Wayland protocol luna service call etc.

The LSM is an abbreviation for a Luna surface manager and functions as an application window compositor. The LSM composes and outputs independently developed applications UI components etc. on a screen. When components such as recent applications showcase applications or launcher applications render respective content the LSM defines an output area a linkage method etc. as a compositor. The LSM functioning as a compositor performs processing such as graphic composition focus management input events etc. At this time the LSM receives event focus etc. from an input manager and a remote controller a HID such as a mouse and keyboard a joystick a game pad a remote application a pen touch etc. may be included as an input manager.

The LSM supports multiple window models and may be simultaneously executed in all applications as a system UI. The LSM may support launcher recents setting notification system keyboard volume UI search finger gesture voice recognition speech to text STT text to speech TTS natural language processing NLP etc. pattern gesture camera or mobile radio control unit MRCU live menu auto content recognition ACR etc.

When the web application manager generates web application based graphics data or application as a UI process the generated graphics data is delivered to the LSM if the graphics data is not a fullscreen application. The web application manager receives an application generated by the WebKit in order to share a graphic processing unit GPU memory for graphic management between the UI process and the web process and delivers the application to the LSM if the application is not a fullscreen application. If the application is a fullscreen application the LSM may bypass the application. In this instance the application is directly delivered to the graphics manager .

The LSM transmits the received UI application to a Wayland compositor via a Wayland surface and the Wayland compositor appropriately processes the UI application and delivers the processed UI application to the graphics manager. The graphics data received from the LSM is delivered to the graphics manager compositor via the LSM GM surface of the graphics manager for example.

The fullscreen application is directly delivered to the graphics manager without passing through the LSM as described above and is processed in the graphics manager compositor via the WAM GM surface. The graphics manager processes and outputs all graphics data in the Web OS device and receives and outputs data passing through the above described LSM GM surface data passing through a WAM GM surface and graphics data passing through a GM surface such as a data broadcasting application or a caption application on a screen. The function of the GM compositor is equal or similar to the above described compositor.

The media server supports execution of a variety of multimedia in a digital device and manages necessary resources. The media server may efficiently use hardware resources necessary for media play. For example the media server requires audio video hardware resources for multimedia execution and efficiently manages a resource use status to efficiently use resources. In general a stationary device having a screen larger than that of a mobile device requires more hardware resources upon multimedia execution and requires high encoding decoding rate and graphics data transfer rate due to a large amount of data. The media server should perform not only streaming or file playback but also broadcasting recording and tuning tasks a task for simultaneously viewing and recording and a task for simultaneous displaying a sender and a recipient on a screen upon video call. It is difficult for the media server to simultaneously perform several tasks due to restriction in hardware resources such as an encoder a decoder a tuner a display engine etc. in chipset units. For example the media server restricts a use scenario or performs processing using user input.

The media server makes system stability robust and removes a playback pipeline in which errors occur during media playback per pipeline such that other media play is not influenced even when errors occur. Such a pipeline is a chain for connecting unit functions such as decoding analysis output etc. upon a media playback request and required unit functions may be changed according to media type etc. The media server may have extensibility and may add a new type of pipeline without influencing an existing implementation method. For example the media server can accommodate a camera pipeline a video conference Skype pipeline a third party pipeline etc.

The media server can process general media playback and TV task execution as separate services because the interface of the TV service is different from that of media playback. The media server supports operation such as set channel channel up channel down channel tuning and record start in relation to the TV service and support operation such as play pause and stop in relation to general media playback that is supports different operations with respect to the TV service and general media playback and processes the TV service and media playback as separate services.

The media server can control or manage a resource management function. Hardware resource assignment or recovery in a device is conducted by the media server. In particular the TV service process delivers a task which is being executed and a resource assignment status to the media server. The media server secures resources to execute a pipeline whenever media is executed allows media execution due to priority e.g. policy upon media execution request and performs resource recovery of another pipeline based on a resource status of each pipeline. The predefined execution priority and resource information necessary for a specific request are managed by a policy manager and the resource manager communicates with the policy manager to process resource assignment and recovery.

The media server may have identifiers IDs for all operations related to playback. For example the media server can send a command to a specific pipeline based on the ID. The media server can also send respective commands to pipelines for playback of two or more media. The media server is responsible for playing back a HTML5 standard media. The media server performs a service process of a TV pipeline according to a TV restructuralization range. Further the media server may be designed and implemented regardless of the TV restructuralization range. If the separate service process of the TV is not performed the TV may be wholly re executed when errors occurs in a specific task.

The media server is also referred to as uMS that is a micro media server. The media player is a media client and means WebKit for HTML5 video tag camera TV Skype or second screen for example. The media server mainly manages micro resources such as a resource manager or a policy manager. The media server also controls playback of web standard media content. The media server may manage pipeline controller resources. The media server supports extensibility reliability efficient resource usage etc. for example.

In other words the uMS that is the micro media server manages and controls resource usage for appropriate processing within the Web OS device such as resources such as cloud game MVPD pay service etc. camera preview second screen or Skype and TV resources. A pipeline is used upon usage of each resource for example and the media server may manage and control generation deletion use of a pipeline for resource management.

The pipeline can be generated when a media related to a task starts a sequence of request decoding streaming and parsing such as video output. For example in association with a TV service and an application watching recording channel tuning etc. are controlled and performed via pipelines individually generated according to requests thereof with respect to resource usage.

Referring to a processing structure of a media server will be described in detail. In an application or service is connected to a media server via a Luna service bus and the media server is connected to and managed by pipelines generated via the Luna service bus . The application or service includes various clients according to properties thereof and may exchange data with the media server or the pipeline via the clients. The clients include a uMedia client WebKit for connection with the media server and a resource manager RM client C C for example. The application including the uMedia client is connected to the media server as described above. More specifically the uMedia client corresponds to the below described video object for example and uses the media server for video operation by a request etc.

The video operation relates to a video status and may include all status data related to the video operation such as loading unloading play playback or reproduction pause stop etc. Such video operations or statuses may be processed by generating individual pipelines. Accordingly the uMedia client transmits status data related to the video operation to the pipeline manager in the media server.

The media server acquires information about resources of the current device via data communication with the resource manager and requests assignment of resources corresponding to the status data of the uMedia client. At this time the pipeline manager or the resource manager controls resource assignment via data communication with the policy manager if necessary. For example if resources to be assigned according to the request of the pipeline manager are not present or are lacking in the resource manager resource assignment may be appropriately performed according to priority comparison of the policy manager .

The pipeline manager requests to generate a pipeline for operation according to the request of the uMedia client from the media pipeline controller with respect to resources assigned according to resource assignment of the resource manager . The media pipeline controller generates a necessary pipeline under control of the pipeline manager . As shown a media pipeline a camera pipeline a pipeline related to playback pause or stop may be generated. The pipeline includes pipelines for HTML5 web CP Smartshare playback thumbnail extraction NDK cinema multimedia and hypermedia information coding experts group MHEG etc. The pipeline may include a service based pipeline and a URI based pipeline media pipeline for example.

Referring to the application or service including the RM client may not be directly connected to the media server because the application or service can directly process a media. In other words if the application or service directly processes a media the media server may not be used. At this time for pipeline generation and usage resource management is necessary and at this time a uMS connector is used. When a resource management request for direct media processing of the application or service is received the uMS connector communicates with the media server including the resource manager . The media server also includes a uMS connector.

Accordingly the application or service may cope with the request of the RM client via resource management of the resource manager via the uMS connector. The RM client may process services such as native CP TV service second screen flash player You Tube media source extensions MSE cloud game Skype etc. In this instance as described above the resource manager may manage resources via appropriate data communication with the policy manager if necessary for resource management. The URI based pipeline does not directly process the media unlike the above RM client but processes the media via the media server . The URI based pipeline may include player factory Gstreamer streaming plug in digital rights management DRM plug in pipelines.

An interface method between the application and the media services is as follows. An interface method using a service in a web application may be used. In this method a Luna call method using a palm service bridge PSB and a method of using Cordova may be used in which a display is extended to a video tag. In addition a method of using HTML5 standard related to a video tag or media element may be used.

A method of using a service in PDK may also be used. Alternatively a method of using in existing CP may be used. For backward compatibility plug in of an existing platform may be extended and used based on Luna. Lastly an interface method using a non Web OS may be used. In this instance a Luna bus may be directly called to perform interfacing.

Seamless change is processed by a separate module e.g. TVWIN and refers to a process of first displaying a TV program on a screen without a Web OS before or duration Web OS booting and then performing seamless processing. This is used for the purpose of first providing a basic function of a TV service for fast response to a power on request of a user because a booting time of a Web OS is late. The module is a part of a TV service process and supports seamless change for providing fast booting and a basic TV function factory mode etc. The module is responsible for switching from the non Web OS mode to the Web OS mode.

A data processing path is changed according to application type. For example if the application includes image data related to a camera sensor the image data is transmitted to and processed by a camera processor . At this time the camera processor includes a gesture or face detection module and processes image data of the received application. The camera processor may generate a pipeline via a media server processor with respect to data which requires use of a pipeline according to user selection or automatically and process the data.

Alternatively if the application includes audio data the audio may be processed via an audio processor AudioD and an audio module PulseAudio . For example the audio processor processes the audio data received from the application and transmits the processed audio data to the audio module . At this time the audio processor may include an audio policy manager to determine processing of the audio data. The processed audio data is processed by the audio module . The application or a pipeline related thereto may notify the audio module of data related to audio data processing. The audio module includes advanced Linux sound architecture ALSA .

Alternatively if the application includes or processes hereinafter referred to as includes content subjected to DRM the content data is transmitted to a DRM service processor and the DRM service processor generates a DRM instance and processes the content data subjected to DRM. The DRM service processor is connected to a DRM pipeline in a media pipeline via a Luna service bus for processing of the content data subjected to DRM.

Hereinafter processing of an application including media data or TV service data e.g. broadcast data will be described. shows the media server processor and the TV service processor of in detail. Accordingly a description will be given with reference to .

First if the application includes TV service data the application is processed by the TV service processor . The TV service processor includes at least one of a DVR channel manager a broadcast module a TV pipeline manager a TV resource manager a data broadcast module an audio setting module a path manager etc. for example. In the TV service processor may include a TV broadcast handler a TV broadcast interface a service processor TV middleware MW a path manager and a BSP NetCast . The service processor may mean a module including a TV pipeline manager a TV resource manager a TV policy manager a USM connector etc. for example.

In the present specification the TV service processor may have the configuration of or or a combination thereof. Some components may be omitted or other components may be added. The TV service processor transmits DVR or channel related data to a DVR channel manager and transmits the DVR or channel related data to the TV pipeline manager to generate and process a TV pipeline based on attribute or type of the TV service data received from the application. If the attribute or type of the TV service data is broadcast content data the TV service processor generates and processes a TV pipeline via the TV pipeline manager for processing of the data via a broadcast module.

Alternatively a JavaScript standard object notation json file or a file written in c is processed by the TV broadcast handler and transmitted to the TV pipeline manager via a TV broadcast interface to generate and process a TV pipeline. In this instance the TV broadcast interface may transmit the data or file passing through the TV broadcast handler to the TV pipeline manager based on TV service policy and refer to the data or file upon generating a pipeline.

The TV pipeline manager generates one or more pipelines according to a request for generation of a TV pipeline from the processing module or manager of the TV service processor under control of the TV resource manager. The TV resource manager may be controlled by the TV policy manager in order to request a resource assignment status for a TV service according to a request for generation of a TV pipeline of the TV pipeline manager and may perform data communication with the media server processor via a uMS connector. The resource manager in the media server processor sends the resource assignment status for the TV service according to the request of the TV resource manager. For example if the resource manager in the media server processor determines that the resources for the TV service are already assigned the TV resource manager may be notified that assignment of all resources is completed. At this time the resource manager in the media server processor may remove a predetermined TV pipeline according to a predetermined criterion or priority of TV pipelines already assigned for the TV service along with notification and request generation of a TV pipeline for the requested TV service. Alternatively the TV resource manager may appropriately remove a TV pipeline or may add or newly establish a TV pipeline according to a status report of the resource manager in the media server processor .

The BSP supports backward compatibility with an existing digital device. The generated TV pipelines may appropriately operate under control of the path manager in the processing procedure. The path manager may determine or control the processing path or procedure of the pipelines in consideration of the TV pipeline in the processing procedure and the operation of the pipelines generated by the media server processor .

Next if the application includes media data not TV service data the application is processed by the media server processor . The media server processor includes a resource manager a policy manager a media pipeline manager a media pipeline controller etc. As pipelines generated under control of the media pipeline manager and the media pipeline controller a camera preview pipeline a cloud game pipeline a media pipeline etc. may be generated. The media pipeline may include streaming protocol auto static gstreamer DRM etc. and the processing flow thereof may be determined under control of the path manager. For a detailed description of the processing procedure of the media server processor refer to the description of and a repeated description will be omitted.

In the present specification the resource manager in the media server processor may perform resource management to a counter base for example. Hereinafter diverse embodiment s of the digital device according to an embodiment of the present invention will be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Next are overviews illustrating an external appearance of the remote controller to control the display in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In particular illustrates a pointer displayed on the display corresponding to the remote controller . Further the display corresponds to for example the display modules of the devices shown in .

A user can then move or rotate the remote controller in the upward and downward direction and in the leftward and rightward direction as shown in and in the forward and backward direction as shown in . That is the movement of the pointer displayed on the display of the image display apparatus corresponds to movement of the remote controller . Such a remote controller also moves in a 3D space to move the corresponding pointer as shown in and thus may be referred to as a space remote controller.

In addition illustrates that when the user moves the remote controller leftwards the pointer displayed on the display of the image display apparatus moves leftwards corresponding to movement of the remote controller . Further information regarding movement of the remote controller sensed by a sensor of the remote controller is transmitted to the image display apparatus. The image display apparatus can also calculate coordinates of the pointer from the information regarding movement of the remote controller and then display the pointer so as to correspond to the calculated coordinates.

Further illustrates the user moving the remote controller away from the display while the user presses a specific button of the remote controller . Thereby a selection region in the display corresponding to the pointer can be zoomed in thus being enlarged. Further when the user moves the remote controller towards the display the selection region in the display corresponding to the pointer can be zoomed out thus being reduced.

Further when the remote controller moves away from the display the selection region can be zoomed out and when the remote controller moves towards the display the selection region can be zoomed in. In addition in order to select an event to be added to the schedule list from the enhanced EPG screen in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the remote controller shown in can be used and this will be described in detail later with reference to .

Next is a block diagram illustrating the internal configuration of the remote controller . As shown in the remote controller includes for example a wireless communication unit a user input unit a sensor unit an output unit a power supply unit a storage unit and a controller . The wireless communication unit transmits receives a signal to from any one of the above described image display apparatuses in accordance with the embodiments of the present invention. Also one image display apparatus from among the image display apparatuses in accordance with the embodiments of the present invention will be described.

In this embodiment the remote controller includes an RF module which can transmit receive a signal to from the image display apparatus according to the RF communication standard. Further the remote controller includes an IR module which can transmit receive a signal to from the image display apparatus according to the IR communication standard.

In this embodiment the remote controller transmits a signal containing information regarding movement of the remote controller etc. to the image display apparatus through the RF module . Further the remote controller can receive a signal transmitted from the image display apparatus through the RF module . In addition the remote controller can transmit a command regarding power ON OFF channel change volume change etc. to the image display apparatus through the IR module .

The user input unit can also include a key pad a touch pad or a touch screen. A user can then input a command regarding the image display apparatus to the remote controller by manipulating the user input unit . Further the sensor unit includes a gyro sensor and an acceleration sensor . The gyro sensor senses information regarding movement of the remote controller . For example the gyro sensor can sense information regarding movement of the remote controller based on x y and z axes. The acceleration sensor can also sense information regarding the moving velocity of the remote controller . The sensor unit may also include a distance sensor for sensing a distance from the display .

Further the output unit can output a video or audio signal corresponding to manipulation of the user input unit or the signal transmitted from the image display apparatus . The user can thus recognize whether or not the user input unit is manipulated or whether or not the image display apparatus is controlled through the output unit . For example the output unit includes an LED module that is turned on when the user input unit is manipulated or the signal of the image display apparatus is transmitted received through the wireless communication unit a vibration module to generate vibration an audio output module to output audio and a display module to output an image.

The power supply unit also supplies power to the remote controller . Further the power supply unit stops power supply when the remote controller does not move for a designated time thereby reducing power consumption. The power supply unit can also resupply power to the remote controller when a designated key provided on the remote controller is manipulated.

In addition the storage unit can store various kinds of programs used to control or operate the remote controller and application data. If the remote controller transmits receives a signal to from the image display apparatus through the RF module wirelessly the remote controller and the image display apparatus transmit receive the signal to from each other through a designated frequency band. The control unit of the remote controller can also store information regarding the frequency band through which the remote controller transmits receives the signal to from the image display apparatus paired with the remote controller within the storage unit and refer to the stored information.

The controller also controls various factors regarding control of the remote controller . The controller can transmit a signal corresponding to manipulation of the designated key of the user input unit or a signal corresponding to movement of the remote controller sensed by the sensor unit to the image display apparatus through the wireless communication unit . Particularly the user interface of the image display apparatus shown in can receive a command signal from the remote controller transmitting an input signal according to motion of the user.

Next is a block diagram of a multimedia device according to one embodiment of the present invention. Referring to a multimedia device according to one embodiment of the present invention includes a tuner a communication module a controller a display module a memory and an EPG signal processing module . Some of the modules shown in may be modified or deleted or other modules may be added to the components shown in without departing from the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents. Moreover for example the multimedia device corresponds to one of a television an STB set top box and the like. Furthermore may be supplementarily interpreted with reference to mentioned in the foregoing description.

The tuner receives a broadcast signal. Although not shown in an audio decoder performs decoding on audio data included in the received broadcast signal and a video decoder performs decoding on video data included in the received broadcast signal. The display module displays the decoded video data on a first area. An interface module or the communication module receives at least one command from an external device.

The controller controls at least one of the tuner the display module and the interface module. In addition the controller executes a specific area enlargement mode in accordance with the at least one command received from the external device. Moreover the controller displays video data corresponding to the video data on a second area within the first area as well. The second area includes an indicator and the video data displayed on the first area is changed depending on at least one of a location of the indicator and a size of the indicator.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the above mentioned process can be applied to video data stored in the memory instead of the broadcast signal. Further the controller automatically executes the specific area enlargement mode in accordance with a category information of the received broadcast signal. The category information of the broadcast signal is designed to be processed in the EPG signal processing module . For instance the above mentioned indicator is implemented as a graphic image of a guide box guiding a specific area desired to enlarge or an enlarged specific area. This will be described in more detail with reference to .

The controller changes a coordinate information of a pointer moving in accordance with a motion of the external device depending on the video data of the received broadcast signal. For instance if a resolution information of the video data of the received broadcast signal corresponds to HD high definition the coordinate information of the pointer is designed to be scaled by 0.66 times. If the resolution information of the video data of the received broadcast signal corresponds to FHD full high definition the coordinate information of the pointer is designed to be scaled by 1 times. If the resolution information of the video data of the received broadcast signal corresponds to UHD ultra high definition the coordinate information of the pointer is designed to be scaled by 2 times. This will be described in more detail with reference to .

After the specific area enlargement mode has been executed if an enlargement or reduction magnification of the video data displayed on the first area is changed in accordance with the at least one command received from the external device the controller automatically changes a size of the indicator in the second area. This will be described in more detail with reference to .

After the specific area enlargement mode has been executed if the specific area desired to enlarge is recognized within the first area in accordance with the at least one command received from the external device the controller automatically changes a center point of the indicator within the second area. This will be described in more detail with reference to . In addition the controller controls both of the video data within the second area and the indicator within the second area to be removed after the elapse of a preset time after executing the specific area enlargement mode or in accordance with the at least one command received from the external device. This will be described in more detail with reference to .

Moreover after both of the video data within the second area and the indicator within the second area have been removed the controller displays a graphic image for guiding that the specific area enlargement mode is being executed. Further the graphic image includes an information indicating the enlargement magnification. The controller is designed to display both of the video data within the second area and the indicator within the second area again in accordance with a command for selecting the graphic image. This will be described in more detail with reference to .

For instance the location or size of the indicator is changed based on an information obtained from a touch sensor or a motion sensor of the external device. For example the external device can be designed by referring to mentioned in the foregoing description. In more particular for instance the external device corresponds to a remote controller or a mobile device which includes at least one of an RF radio frequency module and an IR infrared module. For instance the aforementioned first area corresponds to a full screen of the television and the second area corresponds to a partial area included in the first area. In this regard more details will be further described with reference to .

Next is a flowchart of a method for controlling a multimedia device according to one embodiment of the present invention. Referring to a multimedia device according to one embodiment of the present invention performs decoding on video data received externally or stored in a memory S displays the decoded video data on a first area S and then receives at least one command from an external device S . For instance the multimedia device corresponds to one of a television an STB and the like.

Moreover the multimedia device executes a specific area enlargement mode in accordance with the at least one commands received from the external device S and displays video data corresponding to the video data on a second area within the first area as well S . And the second area includes an indicator and the video data displayed on the first area is changed depending on at least one of a location of the indicator and a size of the indicator. In this regard more details will be further described with reference to .

If the controller receives a command for specifying the specific point desired to enlarge within the first area from the external remote controller through the communication module the controller specifies an area including the specific point using the pointer in response to the command enlarges the specified area including the specific point and then displays the enlarged specified area including the specific point.

Referring to the upper right drawing in when the controller receives a command for deactivating the specific area enlargement mode from the external remote controller through the communication module the controller displays a notification message indicating that the specific area enlargement mode is deactivated. A pointer capable of selecting a specific point is designed to be removed within a first area.

Referring to the lower left drawing in the controller receives a command for selecting a specific part of first area using a pointer from the external remote controller through the communication module and then displays a specific area to be enlarged in response to the received command in advance. Therefore it is advantageous in that the user can check an area to be enlarged in advance.

Next is a diagram illustrating a changed shape of a pointer when activating a specific area enlargement mode according to one embodiment of the present invention. Referring to if a specific area enlargement mode is activated by receiving a command from an external remote controller the controller changes a pointer shape from an original shape first graphic image into a different shape second graphic image .

For instance if an enlargement rate increases in the specific area enlargement mode the controller changes a pointer shape from an original shape to a shape . Also if the enlargement rate decreases in the specific area enlargement mode the controller changes the pointer shape from the original mode to shape . Therefore according to one embodiment of the present invention if the specific area enlargement mode is activated the pointer shape is changed into a magnifying glass shape and varies depending on an increase and decrease in the enlargement rate. Therefore the user convenience is improved since a user can intuitively know an entry of the specific area enlargement mode and an increasing state of the enlargement rate.

The display device displays a window including the content displayed on the main screen and displays an indicator for selecting a specific area of the displayed content within the displayed window . The display device enlarges the selected specific area of the displayed content. Further the display device is designed to display the enlarged selected specific area of the displayed content on the main screen . The above mentioned content corresponds to a video.

For clarity of the following description the main screen can be named a first region and the window can be named a second region. There are no limitations put on the form and size of the window . In more particular for example while outputting video data included in a broadcast signal the display device receives an input signal e.g. OK button from a remote controller over a preset time the display device displays the video data even on the window . When the specific area enlargement mode is initially executed the same video data is displayed on each of the main screen and the window . In particular the video data displayed on the main screen is identical to the video data displayed on the window but they are different in a size only.

Moreover an indicator is displayed within the window . Also the indicator is used for a user to select a specific area desired to enlarge. For instance the indicator can be implemented as a graphic image of a guide box guiding a specific area desired to enlarge or an enlarged specific area. Moreover it is apparent that the adoption of other graphic images comes within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

Furthermore the window may be named a total window and the indicator may be named a local window. A specified area is enlarged through the indicator and then output on the main screen . In other words when the display device newly enters the specific area enlargement mode the display device outputs original video data through the main screen . In selecting the specific area desired to enlarge using the window and the indicator the display device replaces the original video data with the video data resulting from enlarging the specific area only and displays the video data resulting from enlarging the specific area only instead of the original video data. In addition for example it is designed to change a location of the indicator depending on a location change of a pointer . Also for example if the specific area desired to enlarge is determined after executing the specific area enlargement mode the original video data is displayed on the window by being scaled by 1 times. This means that the size of the original video data is reduced only. Moreover the video data resulting from enlarging greater than 1 times e.g. 1.2 times 1.5 times or 2.0 times the specific area only is displayed on the main screen instead of the original video data.

For instance the controller is designed for a user to easily check the specific area desired to enlarge by adjusting brightness of an inside area of the indicator in the window to be high and brightness of an outside area of the indicator to be low. Moreover a rate indication bar including both an enlargement button and a reduction button for changing a screen enlargement rate exists on the main screen . If the controller receives a command for selecting one of the reduction button and the enlargement button using the pointer the controller adjusts a size of the indicator to a preset rate in response to the command. The controller changes a shape of the pointer depending on the command for selecting the one of the reduction button and the enlargement button . The rate indication control bar including both of the reduction button and the enlargement button is named a second indicator and may be discriminated from indicator mentioned in the foregoing description.

In this instance a minimum value of magnification in accordance with the selection of the reduction button can become 1 times and a maximum value of magnification in accordance with the selection of the enlargement button can become 5 times. In this instance the maximum value of the enlargement magnification is not limited by 5 times but can be adjustable. When the enlargement magnification is smaller than 1 times an image displayed on the screen is reduced.

For instance if the controller receives a command for selecting the reduction button the controller changes the pointer shape from an original shape of the pointer into shape . And if the controller receives a command for selecting the enlargement button the controller changes the pointer shape from the original shape of the pointer into shape .

Moreover the window can be implemented as a PIP picture in picture screen. And a size of the PIP screen is designed to be adjustable. For instance if the controller receives a command for clicking on an edge portion i.e. corner portion of the PIP screen and moving it from a first point to a second point different from the first point while continuously maintaining a state of clicking from an external device e.g. remote controller the controller can adjust the size of the PIP screen.

Furthermore the controller can change a location of the PIP screen. For instance if the controller receives a command for clicking on the first point of the PIP screen by the pointer and moving it from the first point to the second point within a first area different from the first point while continuously maintaining the state of clicking from the external remote controller the controller can change the location of the PIP screen. In this instance the above mentioned PIP screen corresponds to the window as shown in .

For example the window is continuously present it may be inconvenient for a user to watch video data playback. Therefore after a preset time e.g. 3 seconds has elapsed the controller changes states of the widow and the indicator into hidden states. In addition if the controller receives a preset command from an external device the controller displays the window and the indicator on the PIP screen again.

If the pointer is located at one of a right boundary line a left boundary line an upper boundary line and a lower boundary line of the second area the controller changes the states of the widow and the indicator into the hidden states. Also if a specific command is received from the external device the controller displays the window as the PIP screen within the main screen again.

The controller moves the indicator using the pointer . In addition the video data displayed on the main screen is changed in accordance with a change of a location of the indicator by being interconnected with the change of the location of the indicator . For instance the video data in the area specified by the indicator and the enlarged video data displayed on the main screen are identical to each other but differ in a size only i.e. it is apparent by comparing the main screen with the indicator shown in . In more particular for example if the indicator in the window includes a specific object only the main screen also displays video data including the specific object only. However compared with video data within the indicator it is different in that a size of the video data within the main screen is enlarged only.

Therefore by displaying the changed location and size of the indicator in real time it has a technical effect capable of checking the enlarged specific area of the original video data more rapidly. In other words if the specific area enlargement mode is executed the original data is displayed on both of the main screen and the window . The video data resulting from reducing the size only is displayed on the window . In order to enlarge the specific area the pointer can be located within the main screen or within the window . The specific area desired to enlarge is confirmed by the pointer as a center point.

However if the specific area desired to enlarge is confirmed video data resulting from enlarging the specific area is displayed on the main screen instead of the original video data. Moreover due to adjustment of an enlargement rate and the like it is possible to design that enlarged video data displayed on the main screen is returned to the original video data. After having displayed the original video data on the main screen again it can newly designate a specific area desired to enlarge by selecting a random point within the main screen . Designation of a specific area desired to enlarge using the indicator within the window newly comes within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

Furthermore while the video data resulting from enlarging the specific area is displayed on the main screen if enlargement reduction magnification is adjusted using the external device or the like the display device is designed to automatically change the size of the indicator within the window . Therefore a user has an advantage capable of checking which part of the window corresponds to video data enlarged or reduced on the main screen in real time.

The second indicator shown in is used for setting an enlargement level. And a content displayed on the main screen is received through a tuner or an external device. For instance the external device corresponds to at least one of an STB a PC and a cellular phone. The size of the indicator is automatically changed depending on the enlargement level selected through the second indicator .

Furthermore another embodiment including receiving a first enlargement level for enlarging the displayed content displaying the enlargement indicator having a first display size based on the received first enlargement level receiving a second enlargement level for enlarging the displayed content and displaying the enlargement indicator having a second display size different from the first display size based on the received second enlargement level can be implemented with reference to mentioned in the foregoing description.

For instance the window includes a PIP picture in picture window. The movement of the window within the main screen also comes within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents. In addition in order to select another specific area of a content displayed on the window the movement of the indicator within the window comes within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents as well.

The indicator moves in accordance with a pointer signal received from the remote controller . Also the size of the indicator is changed in accordance with a wheel signal received from the remote controller . The size of the indicator is increased in accordance with a reduced enlargement level . On the contrary the size of the indicator is reduced in accordance with an increased enlargement level . For instance the indicator is implemented as a graphic image of a guide box guiding a specific area desired to enlarge or an enlarged specific area.

Another feature of the present invention further includes changing a coordinate information of the pointer moving in accordance with a motion of the remote controller depending on the video data of the content displayed on the main screen shown in . For instance if a resolution information of the video data of the content corresponds to HD high definition the scaling the coordinate information of the pointer by 0.66 times is further included. If the resolution information of the video data of the content corresponds to FHD full high definition the scaling the coordinate information of the pointer by 1 times is further included. Also if the resolution information of the video data of the content corresponds to UHD ultra high definition the scaling the coordinate information of the pointer by 2 times is further included. In this regard more details will be further described with reference to .

Both of the window and the indicator are controlled to be removed after the elapse of a preset time after executing the enlargement mode or in accordance with at least one command received from the remote controller . After both of the window and the indicator has been removed a graphic image for guiding that the enlargement mode is being executed is displayed. Also the graphic image includes an information indicating enlargement magnification. In accordance with a command for selecting the graphic image both of the window and the indicator are displayed again. In this regard more details will be further described with reference to .

Next is a diagram illustrating moving a specific point of an enlarged screen by a pointer when activating a specific area enlargement mode according to one embodiment of the present invention. Referring to in a situation that the controller displays an area specified by an indicator as a full screen on a first area if the controller receives a command for selecting a specific point of the full screen using a pointer from an external device the controller moves a center point of the area specified by the indicator from an existing center point to the specific point . Subsequently the controller generates a new enlargement area centering on the specific area and displays the generated new enlargement area as the full screen.

Furthermore according to another embodiment of the present invention it can select a center point of a specific area desired to enlarge in a second area or select a center point of a specific area desired to enlarge in a first area . When the center point of the specific area desired to enlarge is selected using the first area it has an advantage of adjusting the enlargement area minutely. And when the center point of the specific area desired to enlarge is selected using the second area it has an advantage of changing the specific area while checking original video data in general.

Next is a diagram of controlling a screen using a remote controller when activating a specific area enlargement mode according to one embodiment of the present invention. As mentioned in the foregoing description a multimedia device e.g. TV or STB according to one embodiment of the present invention is controlled by an external device. Also the external device corresponds to a remote controller or a mobile device. Although shows a remote controller as an example of an external device the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents is not limited by the remote controller only.

According to one embodiment of the present invention an external remote controller includes a wheel key a direction key and a volume key . If the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an operation of the wheel key from the external remote controller the controller adjusts a screen enlargement rate in accordance with the operation of the wheel key .

For instance if the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an input for rotating a wheel toward an upper direction of the wheel key from the external remote controller the controller increases the screen enlargement rate. And if the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an input for rotating the wheel toward a lower direction of the wheel key from the external remote controller the controller decreases the screen enlargement rate.

A user can change a screen enlargement magnification in the range of 1 to 5 times through the wheel key of the remote controller. Whenever the wheel key is moved by 1 unit the screen enlargement magnification is changed by 0.2 times. The screen enlargement magnification is not fixed but designed to be capable of being modified through a user configuration.

If the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an operation of the volume key from the external remote controller the controller adjusts the screen enlargement rate in accordance with the operation of the volume key . For example if the controller receives a specific command corresponding to part of the volume key from the external remote controller the controller increases the screen enlargement rate. In addition if the controller receives a specific command corresponding to part of the volume key from the external remote controller the controller decreases the screen enlargement rate.

If the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an operation of the direction key from the external remote controller the controller moves a center point of an area specified by an indicator from an existing center point to a specific point in accordance with the operation of the direction key generates enlarged video data centering on the specific point and then displays the generated enlarged video data on a first area .

If an enlargement rate and a location of a specific area are changed using keys of the external remote controller a location and a size of the indicator within a second area corresponding to PIP screen are also changed by being interconnected with the enlargement rate and the location of the specific area. According to another embodiment of the present invention an external remote controller includes a volume key a channel key and a touch pad . The external remote controller is controlled by a motion sensor or a voice recognition sensor.

If the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an operation of the volume key from the external remote controller the controller adjusts the screen enlargement rate in accordance with the operation of the volume key . For instance if the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an up direction part of the volume key from the external remote controller the controller increases the screen enlargement rate. Also the controller receives a specific command corresponding to a down direction part of the volume key from the external remote controller the controller decreases the screen enlargement rate.

If the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an operation of a channel key the controller adjusts the screen enlargement rate in accordance with the operation of the channel key . For example if the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an up direction part of the channel key from the external remote controller the controller increases the screen enlargement rate. In addition if the controller receives a specific command corresponding to a down direction part of the channel key from the external remote controller the controller decreases the screen enlargement rate.

If the controller receives a specific command corresponding to an operation of the touch pad from the external remote controller the controller moves a center point of an area specified by the indicator from an existing center point to a specific point in accordance with the operation of the touch pad generates enlarged video data centering on the specific point and then displays the generated enlarged video data on the first area .

If the information included in the broadcast signal corresponds to a specific category the controller executes the specific area enlargement mode automatically. For instance if a currently outputting broadcast program i.e. video data corresponds to such a category as sports news or the like the controller activates the specific area enlargement mode automatically.

Moreover if a currently outputting broadcast program i.e. video data corresponds to one of adult video violent video adult action and X rated content the controller changes a state of the specific area enlargement mode into an off state. Therefore according to one embodiment of the present invention it has an advantage of minimizing a time required for entering the specific area enlargement mode or reducing the misuse of the present invention by designing that the specific area enlargement mode is automatically turned on or off in accordance with the category information e.g. genre information of video data.

Referring to the controller displays a bar indicating a playback timing on a bottom part of a first area on which video data is displayed. For instance when a genre information of the video data corresponds to sports the controller marks a timing at which a goal is scored and a timing at which the corresponding video data is watched most preferably. The specific timings and can be collected through an EPG information or web search. When the specific timings are selected the specific area enlargement mode is designed to be automatically executed.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the controller retrieves at least one video data saved in the memory and plays a section of the retrieved video data on which a specific area enlargement function is performed. For instance in video data of a specific singer group consisting of 9 members including a first singer and a second singer a user may be interested in only a section in which the first singer and the second singer sing. Unlike an existing time shift function the controller saves an information on the section having the specific area enlargement function performed thereon together with the video data in the memory .

The controller retrieves the section on which the specific area enlargement function is performed from the memory and plays the retrieved section only. Therefore according to an embodiment of the present invention since the section having the specific area enlargement function automatically performed thereon is retrieved and the retrieved section is played only it has an advantageous in that a user does not need to play a whole section of video data.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the controller performs partitioning a full screen on video data temporarily saved in the memory based on the number of specific area enlargement functions executed. It is designed that each of video data having the specific area enlargement function performed thereon i.e. the video data resulting from enlarging only the specific area is output through each of the partitioned screens. For example regarding one video data e.g. broadcast program if the total number of the specific area enlargement functions executed is 9 the controller displays 9 partitioned screens. In each of the 9 partitioned screens the controller displays each section on which the specific area enlargement function is performed. Hence it has an advantage of checking the section having the specific area enlargement function performed thereon more rapidly.

In particular the video signal to be transmitted to the first area corresponds to video data resulting from enlarging a specific area and the video signal to be transmitted to the second area corresponds to original video resulting from reducing its size only. Thus as shown in the upper drawing of the video data resulting from enlarging the specific area is displayed on a main screen and the original video data resulting from reducing the size only is displayed on PIP screen. In particular both a full screen reduced by a prescribed rate and a location of the enlarged area of the full screen are displayed on the PIP screen.

As shown in the lower drawing of the full screen is displayed on the main screen and a screen resulting from enlarging the specific area is displayed on the PIP screen. Therefore according to one embodiment of the present invention it has an advantage of displaying the original video data and the video data resulting from enlarging the specific area on the full screen or the PIP screen selectively by switching the original video data and the video data resulting from enlarging the specific area from each other rapidly.

Next is a diagram illustrating selecting and enlarging several points on a screen according to one embodiment of the present invention. Referring to in a situation that a specific area enlargement mode is activated if the controller receives a command for specifying a plurality of points within the a first area from an external remote controller through a communication module in a prescribed time the controller generates and displays PIP screens amounting to the number of the points automatically.

For instance in a situation that the controller enters the specific area enlargement mode if the controller receives a command for selecting 3 specific points within the first area from the external remote controller through the communication module in 3 seconds the controller displays a first PIP screen a second PIP screen and a third PIP screen . Each of the PIP screens includes video data enlarged centering on each of the 3 specific points.

According to one embodiment of the present invention when a user desires to watch by enlarging several points within one screen the user specify a plurality of points. And each of the specified points can be displayed on a specific part of the screen as the PIP screen. In this instance if several people are located at different positions of one screen respectively several people are simultaneously specified and the specified several people are identified respectively. Therefore since it can know detailed information on clothes a watch and accessory of an identified person can be known more precisely the user convenience is improved.

For instance in a situation that the controller enters the specific area enlargement mode if the controller receives a command for selecting 3 specific points from an external remote controller through a communication module in 3 seconds the controller reduces a size of a first area having original video data displayed thereon by 80 and then displays a first subscreen a second subscreen and a third subscreen on an area except the first area . Each of PIP screens includes video data enlarged centering on each of the 3 specific points.

Compared with a solution for solving a problem that the original video data is covered with the PIP screens is provided in . In particular the change of the size of the first area having the original vide data displayed thereon in accordance with the number of subscreens and corresponds to one feature of the present invention.

Referring to coordinates of a remote controller are 1920 1080 in a two dimensional plane whereas coordinates of a video signal may become 3840 2160 in a two dimensional plane . In this instance the coordinates are not fixed but can be modified in accordance with a resolution of an input video signal or a device. Each value of the coordinates is not an absolute value but can be changed as a relative value. The resolution means how many pixels are included in one screen and is represented by multiplying the number of width pixels and the number of height pixels together. In particular when a resolution is 1920 1080 the number of the width pixels is 1920 and the number of the height pixels is 1080. Further it is represented as two dimensional plane coordinates.

For instance since the coordinates of the remote controller are not equal to those of the video signal although a user selects a point P of x 1440 and y 270 the controller recognizes that a point P of x 720 and y 135 is selected. Therefore the difference is generated between the coordinates intended by the user and the coordinates recognized by the controller .

In this instance when an external remote controller transfers data to a display device the external remote controller transfers data including a coordinate information of the corresponding remote controller. The external remote controller and the display device are connected with each other through wireless communication. Also the wireless communication includes RF communication and IR communication. Moreover the external remote controller may correspond to a smartphone or a mobile device including a tablet PC.

The controller performs scaling on the coordinate information of the external remote controller in accordance with a video signal information of a content. In particular when the video signal information of the content is changed the controller senses the changed video signal information and then performs scaling on received plane coordinates of the external remote controller based on the sensed video signal information.

For instance when the coordinates of the remote controller are 1920 1080 and a video signal resolution information of the content is 720P HD corresponding to 1280 720 the controller changes the received coordinates of the remote controller into 1280 720 by scaling the received coordinates of the remote controller with reference to the video signal information. When the resolution corresponds to HD a scaling factor becomes 0.66.

When the video signal resolution information of the content is FHD corresponding to 1920 1080 the controller performs scaling with reference to the video signal information. If the resolution is FHD the coordinates of the remote controller and the coordinates of the video signal information are equal to each other whereby the scaling factor becomes 1.

If the video signal resolution information of the content is UHD corresponding to 3840 2160 the controller changes the received coordinates of the remote controller to 3840 2160 by scaling the received coordinates of the remote controller with reference to the video signal information. When the resolution corresponds to UHD the scaling factor becomes 2.

Next is a diagram illustrating solving a specific area desired to enlarge out of a video output range according to one embodiment of the present invention. Referring to an upper drawing of when a specific area is enlarged using a point at which a pointer is located as a center point a problem of generating an area not included in original vide data is caused.

Thus referring to the lower drawing of the specific area is enlarged by moving the center point to another point instead of the point at which the pointer is located. Compared to the upper drawing of it is advantageous in that the enlargement is performed on an area included in the original video data only.

Referring to the upper drawing of if the controller receives a specific command from an external remote controller the controller partitions one screen into 9 screens during outputting video data. If a user selects a specific screen from the partitioned screens and the controller receives a command for selecting the specific screen from the external remote controller the controller enlarges video data corresponding to the selected specific screen and then displays the enlarged video data.

Moreover as shown in the lower drawing of the controller reduces original video data by a prescribed rate and then displays the reduced original video data on a second area . And the controller enlarges the video data of the selected specific area as shown in the upper drawing of and then displays the enlarged video data on a first area . Moreover as mentioned in the foregoing description an indicator for guiding the enlarged specific area is displayed together on the second area .

If an enlargement or reduction magnification of video data displayed on a first area is changed in accordance with at least one command received from an external device after a specific area enlargement mode has been executed the controller automatically changes a size of an indicator in a second area. This will be described in more detail with reference to .

If the specific area desired to enlarge is recognized within the first area in accordance with the at least one command received from the external device after the specific area enlargement mode has been executed the controller automatically changes a center point of the indicator within the second area. This will be described in more detail with reference to .

The controller controls both of the video data within the second area and the indicator within the second area to be removed after the elapse of a preset time after executing the specific area enlargement mode or in accordance with the at least one command received from the external device. This will be described in more detail with reference to .

Moreover after both of the video data within the second area and the indicator within the second area have been removed the controller displays a graphic image for guiding that the specific area enlargement mode is running. In addition the graphic image includes an information indicating the enlargement magnification. Further the controller is designed to display both of the video data within the second area and the indicator within the second area again in accordance with a command for selecting the graphic image. This will be described in more detail with reference to .

Next is a diagram of a process for adjusting an enlargement rate while executing a specific area enlargement mode according to one embodiment of the present invention. Implement of an embodiment partially different from the embodiment shown in with reference to the drawings mentioned in the above description comes within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

Referring to when a specific area enlargement mode is executed and a specific area desired to enlarge is also specified video data of an area specified by an indicator within a second area is displayed on a first area as well. As mentioned in the foregoing description the video data in the indicator corresponds to the video data in the first area . Also they are identical to each other but differ in a size.

Moreover regarding the video data displayed on the first area an enlargement or reduction command can be additionally transmitted to a multimedia device e.g. TV or STB using an external device . For instance a command for enlarging the video data within the first area is generated through a specific button of the external device as shown in and the corresponding command is transmitted to the multimedia device.

Thus as shown in compared to the previous video data in the first area more enlarged video data is displayed on the first area . Moreover one feature of the present invention includes that at least one of a size and location of the indicator within the second area is automatically changed in order to respond to the video data within the first area .

As mentioned in the foregoing description or referring to video data in a first area and video data in a second area are identical to each other but differ in only a size at a timing at which a specific area enlargement mode is initially executed. Also a location of an indicator in the second area is designed to correspond to a specific area last selected in previously executed specific area enlargement mode or a random area.

Meanwhile it is assumed that a specific area desired to enlarge is selected using an external device on the premise of the above situation. Therefore as shown in video data resulting from enlarging the specific area is displayed on a first area and original video data is consistently displayed on a second area like a previous second area . However at least one of a location and size of an indicator with the second area is automatically changed. As shown in the location or size of the indicator is automatically changed in order to respond to the video data displayed on the first area . In case of designing the above mentioned way it has advantage capable of rapidly and easily checking which specific area of the original video data is enlarged and watched.

Next is a diagram of a process for removing a related indicator while executing a specific area enlargement mode according to one embodiment of the present invention. Implementation of an embodiment partially different from the embodiment shown in with reference to the drawings mentioned in the above description comes within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

As mentioned in the foregoing description or referring to after a specific area enlargement mode has been executed original video data is output through a second area and video data resulting from enlarging a specific area only is displayed on a first area . Moreover a size and location of an indicator are changed by being interconnected with the first area .

However due to the video data and the indicator within the second area it causes a problem that a part of the enlarged video data is covered. To solve this problem the video data resulting from enlarging the specific area is designed to be still displayed on the first area after the elapse of a preset time e.g. 3 to 5 seconds or in case of reception of a specific command by a multimedia device from an external device . Also compared to the previous second area the indicator and the original video data are designed not to be displayed on a second area . Therefore a technical effect of enabling a user to watch the video data resulting from enlarging the specific area in the first area only is expected.

Compared to the lower drawing of is equal to in that video data resulting from enlarging a specific area is displayed on a first area . However is different from in that there is a second different indicator for guiding that a specific area enlargement mode is running. In particular the second different indicator includes an information indicating how many times the video data displayed on the first area is enlarged in comparison with original video data. In this instance if the second different indicator is selected using an external device the original video data is displayed on a second area again. And it is returned to display an indicator corresponding to a first area again.

According to one embodiment of the present invention if a command for activating a screen enlargement mode is received from an external remote controller a notification message and a pointer are displayed on a screen. Subsequently a partial area of the screen i.e. a specific portion of a main screen is specified by a guide box indicating a screen enlargement area and the area specified by the guide box is displayed as a full screen. In addition a subscreen that the main screen is reduced by a prescribed rate can be displayed as PIP screen within the full screen. Therefore a user can intuitively know which portion of an original screen is enlarged.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the user convenience is improved since a user can enlarge a desired portion of the broadcasting image only and then watch the enlarged portion. According to one embodiment of the present invention the user convenience is improved since a user can easily adjust a location or an enlargement magnification of an area of a screen desired to enlarge.

According to another embodiment of the present invention if a screen enlargement mode is used a pointer of a screen is changed. Therefore since a user can easily recognize that the screen enlargement mode is executed the user convenience is improved. According to another embodiment of the present invention if a user clicks on a specific point within a main screen having an enlarged image displayed thereon a user can move a center point of a screen enlargement area. Therefore since a user can precisely adjust the screen enlargement area in a narrow area the user convenience is improved.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the user convenience is improved since a screen enlargement function is automatically performed in case of a specific genre such as sports or news. According to another embodiment of the present invention when a user moves a playback timing to a timing at which the user desires to watch again in association with a time shift function the user can watch a desired portion as an enlarged image. Hence the user convenience is improved.

According to another embodiment of the present invention when a screen enlargement function is performed a main screen and a PIP screen are switched into each other in a specific case. And a user can watch original video through an enlarged screen thereby improving user convenience.

According to another embodiment of the present invention when coordinates of a remote controller and coordinates of a video signal are not equal to each other a problem of discordance between two coordinates can be solved by changing the coordinates of the remote controller with reference to the coordinates of the video signal. Therefore the user convenience is improved. According to another embodiment of the present invention if a guide line is out of a screen display area a problem that the guide line is out of the screen display area can be solved by moving a center point of the guide line. Therefore the user convenience is improved.

The image display device and method for operating the same according to the embodiments of the present invention may be implemented as other embodiments by combining the whole or some parts of the embodiments of the present invention selectively.

In addition the image display device and method for operating the same according to the embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in a program recorded medium as computer readable codes. The computer readable media may include all kinds of recording devices in which data readable by a computer system are stored. The computer readable media may include ROM RAM CD ROM magnetic tapes floppy discs optical data storage devices and the like for example and also include carrier wave type implementations e.g. transmission via Internet . Further the computer readable media are distributed over a plurality of computer systems connected to a network so that computer readable codes can be are written thereto and executed therefrom.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the inventions. Thus it is intended that the present invention covers the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

