---

title: Range management with bluetooth low energy
abstract: An example method for adjusting the range of transmission of advertising packets is disclosed. In particular, method includes receiving, from an application executing on a mobile computing device, a request. The request may include a request to transmit an advertisement packet via a short-range wireless device of the computing device. Additionally, the request may include a power level for the transmission of the advertisement packet via the short-range wireless device. Additionally, the method may include causing the transmission, via the short-range wireless device, of the advertisement packet. The short-range wireless device may be configured to transmit the advertisement packet at a transmission power level less than or equal to the requested power level. Further, the requested power level may be less than or equal to a nominal power level for the short-range wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363628&OS=09363628&RS=09363628
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09363628
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150519
---
The present application is a divisional application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 334 763 filed on Jul. 18 2014 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Portable computing devices such as personal computers laptop computers tablet computers smart phones wearable computers and countless types of Internet capable devices are prevalent in numerous aspects of modern life. For example it is common for a single consumer to operate a smart phone a laptop computer a keyboard and a mouse possibly simultaneously. With increasing consumers of multiple portable devices the demand for wireless technology continues to play a role in the use of such portable devices. As such various forms of wireless technology have evolved to locally connect these portable devices for numerous applications. One short range wireless technology standard for exchanging data between multiple portable devices is popularly known as Bluetooth.

Bluetooth is commonly used for wirelessly connecting a portable device with one or more other portable devices over a short range. For example Bluetooth may be used to connect a cell phone to a wireless headset possibly allowing for hands free use of the phone. In some instances Bluetooth may also be used to connect the cell phone to the audio speakers and a microphone of a motor vehicle possibly allowing for hands free use of the phone while operating the vehicle. Thus numerous applications have allowed Bluetooth to grow as the standard wire replacement protocol. In multiple applications Bluetooth remains particularly attractive due to its low cost solutions and protocols designed for low power consumption.

Example embodiments herein disclose methods computing devices and computer readable media a capable of providing controlling a transmit power associated with advertisements from a short range wireless device such as a Bluetooth device. By controlling the transmit power associated with advertisements the short range wireless device can control the range at which the advertisements can be received.

In one example a method is provided. The method includes receiving from an application executing on a mobile computing device a request. The request may include a request to transmit an advertisement packet via a short range wireless device of the computing device. Additionally the request may include a power level for the transmission of the advertisement packet via the short range wireless device. The request may be received via an application programming interface API exposed to the application. Additionally the method may include causing the transmission via the short range wireless device of the advertisement packet. The short range wireless device may be configured to transmit the advertisement packet at a transmission power level less than or equal to the requested power level. Further the requested power level may be less than or equal to a nominal power level for the short range wireless device.

In another example a short range wireless device is provided. The short range wireless device may include a processor and a transmitter configured to transmit one or more advertisement packets with a power level less than or equal to a determined power level for a respective advertisement packet. Additionally the short range wireless device may include a computer readable medium having stored thereon program instructions that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to perform functions. Further the functions include receiving from an application executing on a mobile computing device a request. The request may include a request to transmit an advertisement packet via a short range wireless device of the computing device. Additionally the request may include a power level for the transmission of the advertisement packet via the short range wireless device. The request may be received via an application programming interface API exposed to the application. Additionally the functions may include causing the transmission via the short range wireless device of the advertisement packet. Further the requested power level may be less than or equal to a nominal power level for the short range wireless device.

In still another example a computer readable medium is provided. The computer readable medium has stored thereon program instructions that when executed by a processor causes performance of functions in connection with a short range wireless device. Further the functions include receiving from an application executing on a mobile computing device a request. The request may include a request to transmit an advertisement packet via a short range wireless device of the computing device. Additionally the request may include a power level for the transmission of the advertisement packet via the short range wireless device. The request may be received via an application programming interface API exposed to the application. Additionally the functions may include causing the transmission via the short range wireless device of the advertisement packet. The short range wireless device may be configured to transmit the advertisement packet at a transmission power level less than or equal to the requested power level. Further the requested power level may be less than or equal to a nominal power level for the short range wireless device.

In yet a further example an apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes means for receiving from an application executing on a mobile computing device a request. The request may include a request to transmit an advertisement packet via a short range wireless device of the computing device. Additionally the request may include a power level for the transmission of the advertisement packet via the short range wireless device. The request may be received via an application programming interface API exposed to the application. Additionally the apparatus may include means for causing the transmission of the advertisement packet. The means for transmission may be configured to transmit the advertisement packet at a transmission power level less than or equal to the requested power level. Further the requested power level may be less than or equal to a nominal power level for the short range wireless device.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying figures.

The following detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative system and method embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It may be readily understood that certain aspects of the disclosed systems and methods can be arranged and combined in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are contemplated herein. While the following detailed description generally refers to Bluetooth technology it may also be applicable to other short range wireless technologies.

As noted Bluetooth continues to grow as the standard wire replacement protocol and remains particularly attractive due to its protocols designed for low power consumption. In particular Bluetooth Low Energy BLE provides protocols for low power devices to communicate with multiple other computing devices. For example consider a computing device that can be powered by one or more batteries. Further consider that the computing device utilizes BLE s protocols for communicating with other computing devices such as wireless headsets and payment devices. For example a music playing application on the computing device may stream music to the wireless headset. In particular BLE s protocols may include a BLE advertising protocol possibly referred to herein as an advertising protocol or advertising packets such that the computing device may advertise or announce its presence to other computing devices such as the wireless headset possibly to pair or connect the computing device with the wireless headset. As such advertising protocols are designed to allow the computing device to pair with the wireless headset while maintaining the computing device s low power consumption.

Additionally BLE may enable the computing device to also simultaneously interact with more than one device at a time. For example a computing device may advertise to make a payment to a payment device while also making an advertisement to either pair with a wireless headset or a different nearby computing device. Thus an advertisement may be transmitted to initiate a connection with a second device while pairing with a first device is ongoing.

There are several other advantages to BLE s advertising protocols. For example considering the scenario above the computing device may pair with the wireless headset faster using advertising protocols than by using other protocols. In particular advertising protocols may be fixed to three channels of a wireless spectrum e.g. the 2.4 GHz wireless spectrum. Thus by not scanning the full wireless spectrum the wireless headset may communicate and pair with the computing device over the three fixed channels allowing for sending and receiving BLE advertisement packets possibly referred to herein as advertisement packets faster than the other protocols.

Yet one of the challenges to using advertising protocols is related to limitations of the advertisement packets. For example consider another scenario in which the computing device has the music playing application described above and also a payment application. The payment application may allow a user to communicate financial data from a computing device to a payment device to facilitate a transaction. For example rather than swiping a credit card the computing device may communicate payment information to a payment device via BLE. Thus the computing device may attempt to send advertisement packets to both the wireless headset and a payment device for pairing with both devices. However due to the physical distance between the computing device and both the wireless headset and the payment device that the advertisement packets are targeted for it may be desirable to adjust a transmission range for the advertisement packets. As such a transmission power associated with advertisement packets may be adjusted based on the application transmitting the advertisement package.

Therefore embodiments herein provide example methods short range wireless devices and computer readable mediums for adjusting a transmission power associated with advertisement packets based on an application transmitting the advertisement package. Thus a single advertising device e.g. the computing device may send multiple advertisement packets to multiple listening devices e.g. the wireless headset and the payment device. In particular each of the advertisement packets may have a desired range of reception. Further the range of reception may be based on the application that is causing the advertisement packet to be transmitted. As such the whether or not devices listening for an advertisement packet e.g. the wireless headset and the payment device may perceive each advertisement packet may depend on the range between the device transmitting the advertising packet and the devices listening for an advertisement packet. As such in the scenario above the computing device may control the range for the various advertisements based on transmitting each advertisement with a power level based on the desired advertisement range. Thus before transmitting an advertisement packet the computing device may determine the application causing the advertisement packet to be transmitted and responsively adjust the advertisement packet transmission power to control the range at which the advertisement packet can be received.

Further as shown in computing device may pair or connect with a number of other computing devices. For example computing device may pair or connect to computing device through connection . Further computing device may also pair or connect with computing device through connection . Yet further computing may also pair or connect with computing device through connection . In addition connections and may be point to point wireless connections such as BLUETOOTH connections and or Bluetooth Low Power Energy LPE connections among other types of connections.

In some instances computing device may determine a number of applications. For example applications and may for example be downloaded on computing device . In some instances application may be a video playing application for streaming videos from computing device to computing device possibly for displaying the video on a larger display of computing device . Further application may be a presentation application a word application and or a spreadsheet application for sending information from computing device to computing device possibly for modifying the information using the graphical user interface GUI of computing device . Yet further application may be a smart phone application for transmitting data between computing device and computing device . The various applications of computing device may also take the form of a payment application that may communicate payment information to one of computing devices and . In yet further embodiments applications of computing device may also take the form of an application to find nearby computing devices such as a computing device .

Data storage in turn may comprise volatile and or non volatile data storage and can be integrated in whole or in part with processor . Data storage can hold program instructions executable by processor and data that may be manipulated by these instructions to carry out the various methods processes or functions described herein. Alternatively these methods processes or functions can be defined by hardware firmware and or any combination of hardware firmware and software. By way of example the data in data storage may contain program instructions perhaps stored on a non transitory computer readable medium executable by processor to carry out any of the methods processes or functions disclosed in this specification or the accompanying drawings.

Network interface may take the form of a wireless connection such as BLUETOOTH . In particular network interface may enable one or more Bluetooth standards or protocols including BLE protocols and related advertising protocols. Further network interface may include a radio for transmitting advertising packets to other computing devices. For example referring back to computing device may also include network to pair with computing device through . In addition network interface may take the form of other wireless connections such as IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi or a wide area wireless connection. However other forms of physical layer connections and other types of standard or proprietary communication protocols may be used over network interface . Furthermore network interface may comprise multiple physical interfaces. Further network interface may take the form of a wireline connection such as an Ethernet connection.

Input output function may facilitate user interaction with example computing device . Input output function may comprise multiple types of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a touch screen and so on. Similarly input output function may comprise multiple types of output devices such as a screen monitor printer or one or more light emitting diodes LEDs . Additionally or alternatively example computing device may support remote access from another device via network interface or via another interface not shown such as a universal serial bus USB or high definition multimedia interface HDMI port.

In some embodiments the computing device may include a device platform or operating system not shown . In some instances the device platform or the operating system may be compatible with Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy BLE protocols and or BLE advertising protocols. In some instances the device platform or the operating system may be configured as a multi layered Linux platform or operating system. The device platform may include different applications and an application framework as well as various kernels libraries and runtime entities. In other examples other formats or systems may operate the computing device as well.

In some embodiments one or more computing devices may be deployed in a networked architecture possibly as illustrated in . The exact physical location connectivity and configuration of the computing devices may be unknown and or unimportant to other computing devices. Accordingly the computing devices in may be referred to as cloud based devices that may be housed at various remote locations.

For example server devices can be configured to perform various computing tasks of computing device . Thus computing tasks can be distributed among one or more of server devices . To the extent that these computing tasks can be performed in parallel such a distribution of tasks may reduce the total time to complete these tasks and return a result.

Cluster data storage may be data storage arrays that include disk array controllers configured to manage read and write access to groups of hard disk drives. The disk array controllers alone or in conjunction with server devices may also be configured to manage backup or redundant copies of the data stored in cluster data storage to protect against disk drive failures or other types of failures that prevent one or more of server devices from accessing units of cluster data storage .

Cluster routers may include networking equipment configured to provide internal and external communications for the server clusters. For example cluster routers may include one or more packet switching and or routing devices configured to provide i network communications between server devices and cluster data storage via cluster network and or ii network communications between the server cluster and other devices via communication link to network .

Additionally the configuration of cluster routers can be based at least in part on the data communication requirements of server devices and cluster data storage the latency and throughput of the local cluster networks the latency throughput and cost of communication link and or other factors that may contribute to the cost speed fault tolerance resiliency efficiency and or other design goals of the system architecture.

In this example Bluetooth device includes application manager host stack controller and radio . In particular application manager may be coupled to host stack by system bus or a similar mechanism. Further host stack may be coupled to controller by system bus or a similar mechanism. Yet further controller may be coupled to radio by system bus or similar mechanism.

Controller may include a physical Bluetooth controller interface. Further the physical Bluetooth controller interface may correspond to physical Bluetooth static random BSR address A possibly for transmitting an advertisement packet for an application downloaded on the Bluetooth device . For example referring back to the scenarios above consider that Bluetooth device is incorporated with the computing device. As such the music playing application may be downloaded to Bluetooth device . Further controller may correspond to BSR address A for transmitting an advertisement packet for the music playing application.

Bluetooth device may operate in different modes depending on the functionality. In some instances the functionality of Bluetooth device may be controlled by a user of Bluetooth device . Considering the scenarios above the user may provide an input to Bluetooth device or to computing device possibly a computing device that may be combined with Bluetooth device . In particular the user may provide an input to input output function possibly a graphical user interface GUI to initiate the music playing application and stream music to a wireless headset. As such the operating modes of Bluetooth may include an advertising mode.

In some embodiments the advertising mode involves the Bluetooth device periodically transmitting advertising packets. Further Bluetooth device may respond with more information upon requests from other devices. In addition Bluetooth may have other modes such as a scanning mode a master device mode and a slave device mode. In some embodiments the scanner mode involves Bluetooth device listening for advertisement packets transmitted by other devices.

In some embodiments the Bluetooth device may be in advertisement mode to establish a connection with another computing device. For example referring again to the scenarios above consider that Bluetooth device is incorporated with the computing device. As such the wireless headset may scan for a desirable advertising packets sent by Bluetooth device . Upon receiving the advertisement packet the wireless headset may send a pairing or connection request to Bluetooth device . Once the pairing is established the wireless headset may become the slave device and the Bluetooth device may become the master device.

Applications and may be downloaded on Bluetooth device and or on a computing device combined with Bluetooth device . In some instances applications and may for example take the form of applications and respectively as described above in relation to . Further applications and may exchange advertisement data with application manager through application interfaces and respectively. Further additional applications may attempt to exchange advertisement data with application manager as designated by the ellipses between applications and . Yet further applications and may communicate with application manager to exchange an advertisement packet with other devices not shown in .

In some embodiments Bluetooth device may enter advertisement mode to transmit an advertisement packet over the air for applications and . As noted controller may be assigned a single Bluetooth static address A for transmitting advertisement packets to other computing devices. For example Bluetooth device may create advertisement packet to include BSR address A. As such advertisement packet may be transmitted through radio for one or more of applications and .

In addition PDU may include header and advertisement payload with 6 to 37 bytes. Further advertisement payload may include header MAC address and advertisement data with up to 31 bytes. As noted in the scenarios above this 31 byte space may limit the advertisement data that may be transmitted for applications and . In particular computing device may transmit a single advertisement packet for possibly one or two of applications and . For example the 31 byte space may allow for advertisement data of applications and but probably not application in one example . Yet in some instances additional applications may be present as designated by the ellipses between applications and in . As such additional applications may encounter a waiting period to transmit advertisement data due to the 31 byte space limitation and the single Bluetooth static address A.

In some instances computing device may include a number of applications. For example the computing device may for example execute applications and . In some instances application may be an audio playing application for streaming audio from computing device to computing device . Further application may be a financial or payment application for sending information from computing device to payment device possibly for completing a financial transaction with computing device . Yet further application may be a smart phone application for transmitting data between computing device and computing device such a find a friend application.

Computing device may operate in an advertising mode similar to that discussed with respect to . While operating in the advertising mode the computing device may transmit at least one advertising packet shown in as advertisement packets . As shown in advertising packet may be communicated by the computing device to establish a connection between the computing device and the audio device . Similarly advertising packet may be communicated by the computing device to establish a connection between the computing device and the payment device . Further advertising packet may be communicated by the computing device to establish a connection between the computing device and the computing device .

Although each of advertisement packets have an intended recipient device any device capable of receiving an advertisement packet may be able to receive any of advertisement packets that are transmitted within a range of the device. Thus it may be desirable to control the range at which an advertisement packet may be received. In order to control the range at which a packet may be received the power with which an advertisement packet is transmitted may be adjusted. By controlling the transmission power of advertisement packets the range at which an advertisement packet can be received may be controlled.

The range of transmission for an advertisement packet may be controlled for several reasons. For example with respect to an audio application the range for transmission of an advertisement packet may be short in order to try and limit the number of audio devices that may receive the packet. In another example with respect to a financial or payment application the range for transmission of an advertisement packet may be short in order to try and limit the number of payment devices or other devices that may receive the packet. In yet another example with respect to a find a friend application the range for transmission of an advertisement packet may be significantly larger than the other examples in order to try and make the recipient computing device within range of the advertisement packet. However in some embodiments the transmission of an advertisement packet such as an advertisement packet transmitted by a find a friend application may be received and responded to by many computing devices. The computing device may responsively decrease the transmission power of the advertisement packet transmitted by a find a friend application in order to reduce a number of computing devices that receive and respond to the advertisement packet.

In yet another embodiment the range of transmission for an advertisement packet may be controlled based on a battery power level of the computing device. Because transmitting an advertisement packet with a higher power level uses more energy stored in a battery of a computing device a computing device may adjust the range of transmission by lowering the transmission power in order to reduce battery usage. In another embodiment the computing device may iteratively increase the range of transmission by iteratively increasing the transmission power in order to transmit the advertisement packet with the lowest power level to achieve a successful connection.

Each application that transmits advertisement packets may have a corresponding entry in chart . In some embodiments the corresponding entry may be the application name. In other embodiments the corresponding entry may be the API the application uses for advertisement packet transmission. In yet another embodiment the corresponding entry may be based on an application category e.g. social networking location payment media etc. . In even further embodiments an application may have no corresponding entry in the chart . Other embodiments may include a operating system or platform level determination about the advertisement packet. For example the operating system or platform may determine a desired range or transmission power level for each advertisement packet. In this situation the advertisement packet associated with the application may be transmitted based on a nominal power of advertisement packet transmission. The nominal power for advertisement packet transmission may be the maximum or normal transmission power based on the specific Bluetooth hardware in the computing device. The adjusted power of the advertisement packet transmission may generally be less than the nominal transmission power.

As example chart shows the first row indicates various applications . The second row shows the associated transmission range for each application. The third row shows the power level for each application. And the fifth row shows the API for each application.

In the first example a Payment Application may have an associated transmission range of 1 foot for advertisement packets. The power level for a 1 foot transmission range may be 60 dBm dBm being decibels relative to one milliwatt of transmission power . Additionally the Payment Application may call the advertisement packet to be transmitted via a Payment API. In the second example an Audio Application may have an associated transmission range of 4 feet for advertisement packets. The power level for a 4 feet transmission range may be 28 dBm. Additionally the Audio Application may call the advertisement packet to be transmitted via a Personal Audio API. In the third example a Find a Friend Application may have an associated transmission range of 100 feet for advertisement packets. The power level for a 100 feet transmission range may be 10 dBm. Additionally the Find a Friend Application may call the advertisement packet to be transmitted via a Friend Finder API. In the fourth example a Location Detection Application may have an associated transmission range of 50 feet for advertisement packets. The power level for a 50 feet transmission range may be 4 dBm. Additionally the Location Detection Application may call the advertisement packet to be transmitted via a Location API.

In some additional embodiments each advertisement packet may also have a lower bound for transmission power as well. For example an Audio Application may have an associated transmission range of 4 feet for advertisement packets. The power level for a 4 feet transmission range may be 28 dBm. The Audio Application advertisement packet may also have a minimum power level of 35 dBm. Thus the transmission of an advertisement packet associated with an audio application will have a transmission power level between 28 and 35 dBm. Similar to the above discussion the minimum power level for an advertisement packet may be determined based on either the application or an API associated with the application.

At block the method includes receiving from an application executing on a mobile computing device a request 1 to transmit an advertisement packet via a short range wireless device of the computing device and 2 of a power level for the transmission of the advertisement packet via the short range wireless device wherein the request is received via an application programming interface API exposed to the application.

A mobile device may include a number of applications configured to communicate with a short range wireless e.g. Bluetooth device. As shown in a number of applications and may be determined to communicate with Bluetooth device . As noted applications and may be downloaded on Bluetooth device . Further application manager may determine applications and are configured to communicate with application manager through application interfaces and respectively. In particular applications and may attempt to exchange advertisement data with application manager to request to transmit advertisement packet to other devices not shown in .

Advertisement packets may be requested by the first application in a similar manner as previously discussed with respect to . For example an application executed on a computing device may include a Bluetooth operation mode. The Bluetooth operation mode may specify a type of device with which to establish a Bluetooth connection. In response to the computing device executing the application a processor in the computing device may cause an advertisement packet to be determined for transmission by a Bluetooth unit in the computing device. The advertisement packet may function to establish a Bluetooth connection between the computing device and a different Bluetooth device.

In some embodiments the computing device may execute more than one application at a time. In these embodiments the computing device may determine an advertisement packet for each application that includes Bluetooth functionality. For example a computing device may execute a music application and a find a friend application concurrently. The computing device may determine an advertisement packet for each of the music application and the find a friend application. The music application may have an advertisement packet configured to connect with a music playback device and the find a friend application may have an advertisement packet configured to communicate with nearby computing devices.

The power level for the one or more advertisement packets is based on an API of a respective application associated with a respective advertisement packet. Additionally the determined power level for each of the one or more advertisement packets may be less than a nominal power level of the advertisement packets. The nominal power level is a power level corresponding to the default Bluetooth advertisement packed power transmission level of the Bluetooth device.

As discussed with respect to a power level for an advertisement packet may be determined based on the application associated with the advertisement packet. In some embodiments the power level may be determined in response to the application requesting the transmission of an advertisement packet. By adjusting the power level of an advertisement packet the transmission range of a given advertisement packet may be adjusting. For example an advertisement packet with an unadjusted transmission power i.e. a default Bluetooth advertisement packed power transmission level of the Bluetooth device may have a range of 150 feet. The unadjusted transmission power may be a nominal power level such as 13 dBm. Additionally the default nominal power level may be a maximum transmission power level for advertisement packets. However in some instances it may desirable to limit the range of an advertisement packet. For example it may desirable to limit the transmission distance of an advertisement payment associated with a payment application to 5 feet. Thus the transmission power of the associated advertisement packet may be reduced.

The power level for the one or more advertisement packets may be determined in a variety of ways as previously discussed. In one embodiment each application may have an associated power level or transmission range with which the power level for the advertisement packet may be determined. In another embodiment each application may have an associated API and the API may define the power level or transmission range with which the power level for the advertisement packet may be determined.

In some embodiments several applications may have a common API thus in embodiments where the API determines the associated power level or transmission range the several applications may have the same associated power level or transmission range . Because the nominal power level associated with advertisement packets may be a maximum transmission power of advertisement packets the adjusted power level may be less than the nominal power level of advertisement packets. The power levels for various applications or APIs may be stored in a memory of the computing device.

In some embodiments the computing device may have the ability to receive data and store revised power levels for advertisement packets. For example an application may receive an update that revises the power levels associated with the transmission of the advertisement packets of the application. In yet another example an operating system of the computing device may control the power level of advertisement packets based on APIs of the various application. The operating system of the computing device may receive updated data to revise the power level associated with various advertisement packets. Other examples of updating the data related to the power level of advertising packets are possible as well.

At block the method further includes causing the transmission via the short range wireless device of the advertisement packet. Wherein the short range wireless device is configured to transmit the advertisement packet at a transmission power level less than or equal to the requested power level. And where the requested power level is less than or equal to a nominal power level for the short range wireless device

A short range wireless unit of the computing device may receive an instruction from a processor or other unit of the computing device and responsively transmit an advertisement packet with a power level less than or equal to a maximum power level determined for the advertisement packet. In some additional embodiments the short range wireless unit may responsively transmit an advertisement packet with a power level greater than or equal to a minimum power level also determined for the advertisement packet.

In some embodiments the method may also include determining a second power level for transmission of a second advertisement packet associated with a second application. Where the power level is based on an application programming interface API of the second application. Additionally the second power level may be different than the first power level with which the first advertisement packet was transmitted. The second power level may be determined in a similar matter to how the first power level was determined at block . However the second power level may be determined for an advertisement packet i.e. second advertisement packet from a different application than what the first power level for the first advertisement packet was determined for at block . Thus the second power level may be different than the first power level.

The method may further include causing the transmission via a radio associated with the short range wireless device the second advertisement packet with the second power level similar to the first advertisement packet being transmitted at block . Further transmitting one of the first advertisement packet and the second advertisement packet may be performed during a pairing associated with the other of the first advertisement packet and the second advertisement packet. Thus simultaneously while either the first or second device is pairing with the computing device the computing device may also transmit an advertisement packet to the other device. Therefore both pairing acts may be performed at the same time. For example a first advertisement packet may be transmitted and a second advertisement packet may be transmitted sequentially without waiting for a response from the transmission of the first advertisement packet. In another embodiment a first advertisement packet may be transmitted and a second advertisement packet may be transmitted when a response to the first advertisement packet is received without waiting for the pairing process based on the first advertisement packet to complete.

It should be noted that method other steps processes and or functions disclosed herein show possible implementations of example embodiments. In this regard each block in may correspond to hardware chipsets and or circuitry that are designed or wired to perform the specific logical functions in method . Further each block in method may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive.

The computer readable medium may include a non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium a tangible storage device or other article of manufacture for example.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location or other structural elements described as independent structures may be combined.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

