---

title: Body-wearable electronic device
abstract: A body-wearable electronic device according to one of various embodiments of the present disclosure includes: a wearing member which can be worn on the user's body; and at least one main unit configured to be attached to and detached from the wearing member, and can be variously implemented according to embodiments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594404&OS=09594404&RS=09594404
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09594404
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150514
---
The present application is related to and claims the priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Application Serial No. 10 2014 0152123 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Nov. 4 2014 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to an electronic device and for example to a body wearable electronic device.

Typically an electronic device refers to a device which performs a specific function corresponding to an installed program such as a home appliance an electronic diary a portable multimedia player a mobile communication terminal a tablet PC an image sound unit a desktop laptop computer a navigation unit for a vehicle and the like. For example such an electronic device can output stored information in the form of sound or image. With the increase of degree of integration and the popularization of hyper speed and high capacity wireless communication recently a single mobile communication terminal has various functions. For example an entertainment function such as a game a multimedia function such as reproduction of a music file and a video file a communication and security function for mobile banking or the like a scheduling function an electronic wallet function etc. are integrated into a single electronic device in addition to a communication function.

A portable electronic device such as an electronic diary a portable multimedia player a mobile communication terminal or a tablet PC is generally equipped with a flat display device and a battery and has the appearance of a bar type a folder type or a sliding type. Recent developments in electronic communication technology has made such electronic device more compact and even commercialized electronic devices that can be worn on a part of the human body such as the wrist or the head.

A body wearable electronic device may be required to be compact and lightweight in order to make the user feel comfortable when wearing the device. Therefore the function or performance may be limited compared with a conventional electronic device.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object to provide a body wearable electronic device that can implement various functions while making the user feel comfortable when wearing the device.

In addition various embodiments of the present disclosure provide a body wearable electronic device that can implement various appearances.

In addition various embodiments of the present disclosure provide a body wearable electronic device that can complement or expand a limited function.

A body wearable electronic device according to one of various embodiments of the present disclosure includes a wearing member that can be worn on the body of a user and at least one main unit configured to be attached to and detached from the wearing member.

According to another embodiment an additional device e.g. fastening member provided on the wearing member is electrically connected to the main unit to complement or expand the function of the electronic device for example to provide an antenna function.

According to still another embodiment a plurality of main units is mounted on the wearing member to complement expand functions of each other or to further improve the performance of the electronic device.

As used herein the performance may include the calculation rate the storage capacity the battery capacity the antenna function expansion expansion of a connection device such as an interface terminal and the like.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is advantageous in that according to the user s preferences or according to characteristics of the body such as the curvature of the wrist the wearing member can be easily replaced so that the user can both pursue individuality and feel comfortable when wearing the device. In addition the wearing member can be easily replaced while securing coupling between the main unit and the wearing member and the main unit is prevented from escaping from the wearing member even when the user is wearing the device thereby maintaining a stable wearing state. Furthermore the function of the electronic device e.g. the main unit can be complemented expanded by arranging a fastening member or by mounting a plurality of main units on the wearing member.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Although the terms including an ordinal number such as first second etc. can be used for describing various elements the structural elements are not restricted by the terms. The terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. For example without departing from the scope of the present disclosure a first structural element may be named a second structural element. Similarly the second structural element also may be named the first structural element. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more associated items.

Further the relative terms a front surface a rear surface a top surface a bottom surface and the like which are described with respect to the orientation in the drawings may be replaced by ordinal numbers such as first and second. In the ordinal numbers such as first and second their order are determined in the mentioned order or arbitrarily and may not be arbitrarily changed if necessary.

In the present disclosure the terms are used to describe specific embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. In the description it should be understood that the terms include or have indicate existence of a feature a number a step an operation a structural element parts or a combination thereof and do not previously exclude the existences or probability of addition of one or more another features numeral steps operations structural elements parts or combinations thereof.

Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical terminologies or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as that understood by a person skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present specification.

In the present disclosure an electronic device can be a random device and the electronic device may be called a terminal a portable terminal a mobile terminal a communication terminal a portable communication terminal a portable mobile terminal a display device or the like.

For example the electronic device can be a smartphone a portable phone a game player a TV a display unit a heads up display unit for a vehicle a notebook computer a laptop computer a tablet Personal Computer PC a Personal Media Player PMP a Personal Digital Assistants PDA and the like. The electronic device can be implemented as a portable communication terminal which has a wireless communication function and a pocket size. Further the electronic device can be a flexible device or a flexible display unit.

The electronic device can communicate with an external electronic device such as a server or the like or perform an operation through an interworking with the external electronic device. For example the electronic device can transmit an image photographed by a camera and or position information detected by a sensor unit to the server through a network. The network can be a mobile or cellular communication network a Local Area Network LAN a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a Wide Area Network WAN an Internet a Small Area Network SAN or the like but is not limited thereto.

Referring to and a three dimensional X Y Z rectangular coordinate system is illustrated wherein Z axis refers to the vertical direction thickness direction of a main unit of the electronic device X axis refers to the transverse direction of the main unit and Y axis refers to the longitudinal direction of the main unit .

The present embodiment illustrates as the electronic device a body wearable electronic device for example an electronic device that can be worn on the wrist like a watch or a bracelet. However various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited thereto and electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented as various communication devices or auxiliary medical devices. In addition an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be variously applied to a part of the user s body which has a curvature. Examples of parts of the user s body which have curvatures include wrists forearms and ankles. In addition an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be conveniently worn on various parts of the user s body according to the configuration of its wearing member.

An electronic device according to one of various embodiments of the present disclosure includes the main unit function device unit and a wearing member that can be worn on the user s body like a band or a strap. The main unit can be configured to be attached to and detached from the wearing member . For example the main unit can be coupled to the wearing member while being at least partially contained. While the main unit is coupled to the wearing member at least a part of the main unit can face a part of the wearing member . On the main unit a display device for displaying various types of information a pressing key e.g. side key K for inputting various types of information a sensor unit e.g. bio signal detection sensor proximity sensor a touch input unit or the like can be arranged.

The main unit can have the shape of a bar at least a part of which has a curvature corresponding to the user s body. For example the main unit can have the shape of a rectangle largely extending in the longitudinal direction Y axis direction having a curvature. The main unit can have a binding recess formed on its side surface to engage with the wearing member . A plurality of binding recesses can be formed on the side surface of the main unit or the binding recess can extend along the periphery of the main unit in the shape of a closed curved line.

The wearing member enables the main unit to be stably worn on the user s body and if necessary can force the main unit against the user s skin. The above mentioned wearing member can be implemented as a band or a strap which is made of an elastic material or a chain structure including pieces made of a non elastic material and connected to each other. In addition since the main unit can be attached to and detached from the wearing member the user can replace the wearing member with one conforming to individuality or preferences. According to another embodiment the portion e.g. seating portion of the wearing member which is coupled to the main unit can be configured to deform elastically while portions of wearing surfaces e.g. inner surfaces of first and second wearing members and which are forced against the user s body may not be made of an elastic material. The wearing member can include an opening portion extending in one direction which the main unit is attached to and detached from. The opening portion can have the shape of a through hole which fully extends through the inner and outer surfaces of the wearing member or the shape of a recess that is partially indented from the outer surface of the wearing member . For example the main unit can be contained in the opening portion while at least a part faces a part of the opening portion . The seating portion has the shape of a closed curved line and forms the opening portion and at least the seating portion of the wearing member can be made of an elastic material. When the main unit is coupled to the wearing member at least a part of the seating portion can be fitted into the binding recess which extends along the side surface of the main unit .

The opening portion is an open space to which the main unit is fitted for example which contains at least a part of the main unit and has a shape surrounded by the seating portion . The opening portion according to the present embodiment can have an overall shape of a rectangle having a thickness. Seen from above the opening portion can have the shape of a rectangle having a length in the longitudinal direction Y larger than a length in the transverse direction X . For example the opening portion can have four inner walls each of which is arranged to constitute at least a part of one side of a rectangle and among the inner walls constituting the opening portion inner walls adjacent to each other can be connected by a curved surface. For example the opening portion has a substantially rectangular shape but two inner walls adjacent to each other do not necessarily intersect with each other at the right angle.

Furthermore the wearing member can include a linear portion that surrounds the opening portion e.g. the seating portion . The first and second wearing members and extend away from each other from peripheries of the opening portion e.g. at least a part of the seating portion along the longitudinal direction Y of the main unit . However considering that the electronic device is worn on the user s body the first and second wearing members and can be bent in the thickness direction Z of the main unit with regard to the seating portion . As the first and second wearing members and are coupled to each other the wearing member can maintain the shape of a closed curved line as illustrated in while the device is worn on the user s body.

The wearing member includes a means for binding and fastening the first and second wearing members and to each other. For example the first wearing member can be provided with at least one binding protrusion and the second wearing member can have multiple binding holes formed thereon. The binding holes are arranged in the direction of extension of the second wearing member and can engage with the binding protrusion . As the binding protrusion engages with one of the binding holes and binds the first and second wearing members and to each other the wearing member can maintain the shape of a closed curved line. The binding protrusion can be integrally shaped together with the first wearing member or can be fabricated as a separate component and assembled to the first wearing member . When wearing the electronic device the user can select the position of a binding hole with which the binding protrusion engages considering the size curvature and the like of the portion on which the device is to be worn.

According to various embodiments the wearing member of the electronic device can be configured as a band that has elasticity and has the shape of a closed curved line. When the wearing member of the electronic device is configured as a band that has elasticity and has the shape of a closed curved line the user can expand the wearing member forcibly and position a desired body part inside the wearing member thereby wearing the electronic device . Given that the main unit is configured to be attached to and detached from the wearing member if the user owns both the wearing member having the shape as illustrated in for example and a wearing member configured as a band structure having the shape of a closed curved line the user can mount the main unit on a wearing member which conforms to the use environment and use the device. Besides the structure or the shape of the wearing member can be implemented variously.

The above mentioned binding structure is just one of various embodiments of the present disclosure and can be replaced with different various structures e.g. binding structures of buckle and hook types according to the material and structure of the first and second wearing members and .

The electronic device can have a binding recess formed along the periphery of the side surface among surfaces of a main housing constituting the main unit and a seating portion formed on the periphery of the opening portion of the wearing member and fitted to the binding recess . The electronic device further includes a fastening member for fixing the main unit to the wearing member more firmly after the main unit is fitted to the wearing member . The fastening member will be described later in more detail.

The main unit e.g. the main housing can have the shape having a curvature. Since the seating portion is made of an elastic material and undergoes elastic deformation it can deform in conformity with the shape of the main unit e.g. the shape of the binding recess and couple thereto. When the wearing members are implemented in various designs or colors the user can select replace and use a wearing member having a design or color conforming to the user s preferences. That is the wearing member can be used as an accessory that exhibits the user s own individuality. In addition the main unit has a shape corresponding to that of the seating portion or the opening portion e.g. a substantially rectangular shape so that the electronic device can activate different various functions according to the direction in which the main unit is coupled to the wearing member . Such activation of different functions according to the direction in which the main unit is coupled will be described later in more detail.

In general each user has a different size of the wrist for example the curvature. When users having different wrist curvatures wear electronic devices of the same size they feel different. For example women generally have thinner wrists than men so that not all users feel comfortable when wearing the same body wearable electronic devices. However the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure includes a main unit and a wearing member attached to and detached from each other so that the user can select a wearing member which conforms to his her physical characteristics and feel comfortable when wearing it.

Although the display device is illustrated in a shape that reflects the curved surface of the user s body it can be configured as a flat LCD OLED display a curved display or a flexible display. For example the main unit according to detailed embodiments of the present disclosure is illustrated as having a curved display but the main unit can be configured as a flat display or a flexible display according to its exterior design. The display device can be integrated with a touch panel to implement a touch screen.

It is to be noted that in the following description of electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure components that are identical to those in the preceding embodiment or that can be easily understood from the preceding embodiment except for minor differences in their shapes and the like are given the same reference numerals or omitted without repeating detailed descriptions thereof.

Referring to and a wearing member of an electronic device according to the present embodiment further includes a fastening member made of a different kind of material. Although the wearing member according to the present embodiment is implemented in a ring shape it can include first and second wearing members as in the preceding embodiment and can be selectively deformed to a ring shape or closed curved line shape .

The fastening member can be made of a material different from that of the seating portion or the wearing band. For example when the seating portion or the wearing band is made of an elastic material flexible material the fastening member can be made of a material that is more rigid than that of the seating portion or the wearing band. For example the fastening member can be made of a synthetic resin including polycarbonate or a conductive metal. The fastening member can be arranged on the inner surface of the seating portion through processes including assembly gluing double injection and insert injection. The fastening member can provide a firmer bonding force between the seating portion and the main unit and can alleviate or prevent wearing down or a relaxation of the seating portion as a result of repeated attachment and detachment of the main unit for a long period of time. The fastening member can be fixed to the inner surface of the seating portion through double injection and when the main unit is coupled can be fully contained in the side surface of the main unit .

According to a different embodiment the fastening member can be used as a decorative element of the electronic device.

The fastening member according to the preceding embodiment is fully contained in the main unit and thus is not exposed to the outside however the fastening member according to the present embodiment as illustrated in and can be exposed to the periphery of the front surface of the main unit between the main unit and the wearing member even when the main unit is coupled to a part thereof. Therefore the fastening member can be used as a decorative element of the electronic device by using its color or shape by fabricating the fastening member using a synthetic resin including a fluorescent substance or by adding a light emitting diode for example. As such various decorative effects can be implemented using the fastening member according to the material of the fastening member or the device e.g. light emitting diode added to the fastening device

Referring to the wearing member is provided with at least one pair of fastening members . The plurality of fastening members can be arranged along the inner wall of the opening portion . The wearing member according to the present embodiment is illustrated as including a pair of fastening members . In connection with arranging the fastening members slits can be formed between the fastening members respectively. The slits can be arranged at both ends of the opening portion in the longitudinal direction respectively. When the fastening members are made of a rigid material e.g. polycarbonate conductive metal the fastening members can allow the seating portion to deform in one direction only. For example as illustrated in the seating portion can be deformed by a tension force D acting on it in the transverse direction but the fastening members can suppress deformation of the seating portion caused by a tension force D acting in the longitudinal direction. The direction in which the wearing member can be deformed by a tension force can be variously set according to the number and position of the slits alternatively according to the number and position of the fastening members .

A detailed embodiment of the present disclosure illustrates a structure wherein a plurality of fastening members are arranged with slits positioned between them so that the seating portion is not allowed to deform in a predetermined direction but is allowed to deform in other directions. However the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For example one fastening member having the shape of a closed curved line is arranged and a partial range of the fastening member is made thinner than the other range or a partial range of the fastening member is made of an elastically deformable material thereby limiting the direction in which the seating portion can deform.

The arrangement of the fastening members and the slits illustrated in suppresses deformation of the wearing member in connection with a tension force acting while the device is worn thereby maintaining the main unit stably coupled to the wearing member . In addition by tensioning the wearing member in the transverse direction the user can easily couple the main unit to the wearing member or separate the main unit from the wearing member

The fastening members and illustrated in and are made of conductive materials respectively and can be electrically connected to the main unit. For example the fastening members and can be used as antenna devices that expand the wireless transmission reception function. According to an embodiment the fastening members and can be provided with contact terminals or magnetic bodies respectively. The contact terminals can provide electric connection between the main unit and the fastening members and

Referring to according to a different embodiment assuming that a slit is provided between the fastening members and the fastening members are made of a transparent or semi transparent material a light emitting element such as a light emitting diode E can be arranged in the slit . The light emitting diode E can direct light towards each of the fastening members which are made of a transparent or semi transparent material and provide the periphery of the main unit with a decorative effect.

The configuration of a main unit corresponding to the fastening members and which are provided with contact terminals or magnetic bodies as described above is illustrated in .

Referring to and the main unit corresponding to the above mentioned fastening members and can have an electrode arranged on a side surface e.g. in the binding recess . According to the present embodiment the electrode can be connected to the contact terminals to detect whether the main unit is mounted on the wearing members and or not or to detect the direction in which the main unit is mounted with regard to the wearing members and . For example when the contact terminals are made of conductive pads the electrode can be electrically connected to the fastening members and through the contact terminals . When the fastening members and are provided with magnetic bodies not the contact terminals the electrode can be made of a Hall sensor.

When the fastening members and are made of conductive materials the fastening members and can be connected to the main unit through the contact terminals and the electrode and used as antenna devices that expand the wireless transmission reception function of the main unit . In this case the main unit can activate the communication mode when it detects electric connection with the fastening members and while being coupled to the wearing members and . When the main unit is separated from the wearing members and or when the main unit is mounted on the wearing members and in such a direction that the electrode cannot detect the contact terminals the main unit can release the communication mode and prevent battery consumption. Besides the electrode or Hall sensor and the contact terminals or magnetic bodies can be used to detect the direction in which the main unit is mounted thereby setting the operating mode variously.

According to various embodiments the fastening members and can be besides the configurations of using them to expand the antenna device and using them as decorations using light emitting diodes useful to improve the function or performance of the electronic device . For example the battery capacity can be limited because there is a limit to the space that can be secured in the main unit in such a case the fastening members and can be used to expand the battery capacity of the electronic device . In addition when the fastening members and can be electrically connected to the main unit through the above mentioned electrode and the contact terminals the fastening members and can be equipped with connectors for example to expand the connection device of the electronic device . Besides the fastening members and can be equipped with various sensors to further diversify the function of the electronic device . For example when the fastening members and are equipped with bio signal detection sensors that can detect the user s heartbeat blood pressure oxygen saturation etc. suitable applications can be installed to use the electronic device to manage the user s health.

When the user owns a plurality of wearing members including fastening members and equipped with different sensors the user can select a suitable wearing member as needed and mount the main unit thereon. For example the user can select a suitable wearing member as needed and mount the main unit thereon thereby utilizing the electronic device more diversely.

According to various embodiments the operating mode of the main unit can be varied according to the direction in which the main unit is mounted with regard to the fastening members and thereby providing various user experiences. In the electronic device the main unit can be rotated by 180 and mounted on the wearing member in two different positions. For example the electronic device can be set in a normal mode in which the device is used in a comparatively static state e.g. voice communication messages information checkup in the first mounting position of the main unit and set in an active mode in which the view is limited by fast movements e.g. workout driving in the second mounting position which the main unit reaches after rotating 180 from the first mounting position. In the normal mode the display device and the like can be fully utilized to output information required by the user and in the active mode information output can be adjusted according to the user s setting and the like e.g. the sound output function can be enhanced.

The direction in which the main unit is mounted with regard to the fastening members and can be recognized by a combination of the above mentioned electrode the contact terminals or magnetic bodies and the Hall sensor. It will be assumed that at least one of the fastening members and is used as a part of the antenna device when the main unit and the fastening member used as a part of the antenna device are connected a communication mode e.g. the normal mode can be activated and when the fastening member used as a part of the antenna device is not connected to the main unit the communication mode can be deactivated to prevent battery consumption.

The wearing member of the electronic device according to a still different one of various embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in the shape of a pendant. For example the seating portion of the wearing member can be implemented in an annular shape and a wearing member not illustrated of a necklace shape can extend from the seating portion . Fastening members and made of a material different from that of the seating portion can be arranged on the inner surface of the seating portion . When a plurality of fastening members and are arranged on the inner surface of the seating portion the seating portion is allowed to expand in response to a tension force acting in a specific direction but expansion is suppressed in response to tension forces acting in other directions. The main unit of the electronic device can have the shape of a disk surrounded by the seating portion . The main unit can have a binding recess formed on its side surface in a shape corresponding to that of the seating portion . Although not illustrated assuming that contact terminals or magnetic bodies are arranged on the fastening members and the main unit is provided with corresponding sensors the operating mode of the main unit can be set differently according to the position or direction of coupling of the main unit

Referring to and the electronic device according to the present embodiment can have a plurality of opening portions provided on the wearing member . Therefore the electronic device further includes a second main unit besides the main unit . The second main unit can not only be configured in the same manner as the main unit but also be configured to have a different function. When configured in the same manner as the main unit the second main unit can expand the memory capacity or the display area and the second main unit can interwork with the main unit in a wired or wireless manner or operate independently to simultaneously drive various applications. In addition the second main unit can expand the capacity of the calculation device or the battery provide an auxiliary storage device or add various switches or sensors which are not mounted on the main unit to the electronic device . For example when the electronic device has a bio signal detection sensor but is in an environment where it cannot secure a sufficient amount of light to recognize a vein etc. the second main unit can be used to supply the lacking amount of light.

Although a body wearable electronic device has been described in the preceding embodiments in connection with description of detailed embodiments of the present disclosure the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For example various embodiments of the present disclosure can also be applied to commercialized bar type electronic devices.

Referring to to the main unit of the electronic device can be implemented as a bar type mobile communication terminal and the wearing member can be replaced with cover members and configured to be attached to and detached from the terminal . The cover members and can be mounted and fixed to the rear surface of the terminal to open and close the front surface of the terminal . The cover members and includes additional devices and on the inner surface thereof e.g. first surface that is attached to and detached from the rear surface of the terminal or a second surface that opens and closes the front surface of the terminal . The additional devices and include a near field communication NFC antenna an auxiliary battery an auxiliary storage device etc. In addition when the cover members and include a seating portion that is bound to the terminal the additional devices and can be arranged on the seating portion of the cover members and . As implemented in the preceding embodiments the auxiliary devices and and the terminal can interwork to make various settings e.g. to differently set the operating mode of the terminal according to the direction in which the terminal is mounted on the cover members and

Referring to the electronic device can constitute for example all or a part of the above mentioned electronic devices and . The electronic device can include at least one of at least one AP application processor a communication module a SIM subscriber identification module card a memory a sensor module an input device a display e.g. the display device an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP controls a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program process various data including multimedia data and perform calculations. The AP can be embodied as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP further includes a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface can perform data transmission reception in connection with communication with other electronic devices connected to the electronic device via a network. According to one embodiment the communication module includes at least one of a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice call a video call a text message service or an Internet service through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like . Further the cellular module distinguishes and authenticates electronic devices within a communication network by using a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module performs at least some of functions that the AP provides. For example the cellular module can perform at least a part of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment the cellular module includes a Communication Processor CP . Further the cellular module can be implemented by for example an SoC. Although components such as the cellular module e.g. the communication processor the memory or the power management module are illustrated to be separate from the AP in the AP can be implemented to include at least some of the above described components e.g. the cellular module according to one embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module for example communication processor can load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other components connected to each of them to a volatile memory and process the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the cellular module can store data received from or generated by at least one of the other components in a non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module can include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. In the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as blocks separated from each other but according to an embodiment at least some for example two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module can be included in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package. For example at least some for example a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module respectively can be implemented by a single SoC.

The RF module transmits and receives data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated the RF module includes for example a transceiver a Power Amplifier Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF module further includes a component for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave in a free space during a radio communication such as a conductor or a conducting wire. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated to share one RF module in at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module transmits and receives RF signals through a separate RF module.

The SIM card is a card including a subscriber identification module and can be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card includes unique identification information for example Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory for example memory includes an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory includes at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like .

According to an embodiment the internal memory is a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory can further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like. The external memory can be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device further includes a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information to an electronic signal. The sensor module includes for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example red green and blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a luminance sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module includes for example an E nose sensor not illustrated an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not illustrated an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not illustrated an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not illustrated an InfraRed IR sensor an iris sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor not illustrated and the like. The sensor module further includes a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input device includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel recognizes a touch input through at least one of for example a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an ultrasonic scheme. The touch panel further includes a control circuit. The capacitive scheme touch panel recognizes physical contact or proximity. The touch panel further includes a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor can be embodied for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of a user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key includes for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device has an input tool which generates ultrasonic signals so that the electronic device senses sound waves using the microphone and identifies data and is capable of wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device receives a user input from an external device for example computer or server connected thereto by using the communication module .

The display e.g. the display device includes a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel can be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED or the like. The panel can be embodied to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel can be also configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram can show a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The projector can project light onto a screen to display an image. For example the screen can be located inside or outside the electronic device . According to one embodiment the display can further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface includes for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . Additionally or alternatively the interface includes for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module bi directionally converts a sound and an electronic signal. At least some of the components of the audio module can be included in the input output interface. The audio module processes voice information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver earphones the microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device which can photograph an image and a dynamic image. According to an embodiment the camera module includes one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a back sensor a lens not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown for example LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module manages power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module includes for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC can be mounted to for example an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods can be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC charges a battery and prevents over voltage or over current from being flowed from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic scheme can be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like can be added.

The battery fuel gauge measures for example a remaining quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery stores or generates electricity and supplies power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery can include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator indicates particular states e.g. a booting state a message state a charging state etc. of the electronic device or a part e.g. the AP of the electronic device . The motor converts an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. Although not illustrated the electronic device includes a processing unit for example GPU for mobile TV support. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV processes media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

The above described components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be formed of one or more components and a name of a corresponding component element may be changed based on the type of electronic device. The electronic device according to the present disclosure may include one or more of the aforementioned components or may further include other additional components or some of the aforementioned components may be omitted. Further some of the components of the electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined to form a single entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding elements prior to the combination.

The module used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more of the hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component element or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or are to be developed hereafter.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and an application operation module .

The bus is a circuit that connects the above described components with each other and to transfer communication for example control messages between the above described components.

For example the processor can receive instructions from the aforementioned other elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the application operation module through the bus decipher the received instructions and perform calculation or data processing according to the deciphered instructions.

The memory stores instructions or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface the application operation module or the like or generated by the processor or other elements. The memory includes programming modules such as a kernel middleware API application programming interface or an application . Each of the programming modules described above can be formed of software firmware and hardware or a combination thereof.

The kernel controls or manage system resources for example the bus the processor the memory or the like which are used for performing operations or functions implemented by other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Further the kernel provides an interface through which the middleware the API or the application can access and control or manage individual components of the electronic device .

The middleware serves as an intermediator that allows the API or the application to communicate with and exchange data with the kernel . Further in relation to requests for an operation received from the application the middleware controls for example scheduling or load balancing the requests for the operation by using for example a method of determining sequence for using system resources for example the bus the processor the memory or the like of the electronic device with respect to at least one application among the applications

The API is an interface by which the application controls functions provided from the kernel or the middleware and includes for example at least one interface or function for example instructions for file control window control image processing or text control.

According to various embodiments the application includes a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring the amount of exercise or blood sugar an environmental information application for example an application for providing atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature or the like. Additionally or alternatively the application can be an application related to information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device . The application related to the information exchange can include for example a notification relay application for transmitting specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application can include a function of transferring notification information generated in other applications for example the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environmental information application of the electronic device to the external electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application can receive the notification information from for example the external electronic device and can provide the received notification information to a user. The device management application manages for example install delete or update for example at least some functions for example turning external electronic device or some elements on or off or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display of the external electronic device that communicates with the electronic device applications performed in the external electronic device or services for example a phone call service or a messaging service provided by the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments the application includes applications which are designated according to the attribute e.g. device type of the external electronic device . For example in a case where the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application includes an application related to the reproduction of music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application includes an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application includes at least one of an application designated for the electronic device or an application received from a different electronic device for example a server or an external electronic device .

The input output interface transmits a command or data input from the user through an input output device for example sensor keyboard or touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the application operation module through for example the bus . For example the input output interface provides to the processor data for a user s touch which is input through the touch screen. Further through the input output device for example a speaker or a display the input output interface outputs commands or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the application operation module through the bus . For example the input output interface outputs voice data processed by the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display displays various pieces of information for example multimedia data or text data for the user.

The communication interface makes a communication connection between the electronic device and a different electronic device for example the external electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface connects to a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external electronic device. The wireless communication includes for example at least one of Wi Fi Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC a Global Positioning System GPS or cellular communication for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The wired communication includes at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network can be a telecommunications network. The communication network can include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment protocols for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and external electronic devices can be supported by at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

According to an embodiment the application operation module supports driving of the electronic device by performing at least one of the operations or functions implemented by the electronic device . For example the server can include a communication control server module capable of supporting the application operation module implemented in the electronic device . For example the communication control server module can include at least one component of the application operation module and can perform e.g. perform as a proxy at least one of the operations performed by the application operation module .

The application operation module processes at least some of the information obtained from other components for example the processor the memory the input output interface or the communication interface and utilize the same in various manners. For example the application operation module controls at least some functions of the electronic device by using the processor or independently thereof so that the electronic device can interwork with a different electronic device e.g. the external electronic device or the server . The connection control module can be integrated into the processor . According to an embodiment at least one component of the application operation module can be included in the server for example the communication control server module and can have at least one operation which is performed by the application operation module supported by the server . Additional information regarding the application operation module is provided with reference to described later.

Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

