---

title: Outgoing communications inventory
abstract: Systems and methods for generating and accessing a communications inventory are provided. To generate the inventory in one embodiment, a plurality of outgoing communications is received. The outgoing communications may have been auto-generated or generated as part of a batch process. Next, a determination is made that a first outgoing communication of the plurality of outgoing communications is unique relative to other outgoing communications to avoid storing duplicate messages. Lastly, a user may access a display of the first outgoing communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521104&OS=09521104&RS=09521104
owner: EBAY INC.
number: 09521104
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150401
---
The present application relates generally to network communications and more specifically to maintaining an inventory of outgoing communications for later retrieval.

Entities such as news organizations companies and social networks send a large number of electronic communications per day to employees customers members vendors potential customers and subscribers. The electronic communications may be generated according to one or more templates that in turn comply with entity wide policies regarding header information and body content. While the templates are compliant the actual email sent may be altered and may no longer comply with the policies.

Example methods and systems to provide an outgoing email inventory are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

As used herein the terms communication outgoing communication and electronic communication collectively refer to messages sent via electrical means such as electronic mail email e.g. messages sent via simple mail transfer protocol SMTP short message service SMS messages medium message service MMS messages voice mail messages messages sent within a social network platform or a subscriber platform e.g. in a customer service environment facsimiles and the like. A batch of communications may be assigned an index number or other identifier when sent.

As used herein the term contact refers to those people or entities to which the communications are addressed. Contacts may include for example employees customers members vendors potential customers and subscribers. The term contact may refer to a portion of the entirety of the contacts of the entity. To illustrate an email described as being sent to contacts may in operation be sent to contacts who are customers but not contacts who are employees.

The terms inventory and communications inventory refer to electronic communications stored and accessible for review. The communications inventory may be accessible via a database that indexes the communications according to one or more characteristics. The characteristics may include for example an index number or other identifier a date sent or captured by the communications inventory system a size a site e.g. a country from which the communication was sent a template author and a date the template was created.

Often entities rely on a set of templates to maintain the integrity of the communications being sent with the assumption that if a template is used to generate the communication it will be compliant with entity wide policies. When the entity sends large batches of communications to contacts there may not be a way to view the actual communication sent. The communications inventory system described herein is to sample the outgoing communications index and store the communications and to provide a user interface that can be used to review the communications sent by the entity. The communications inventory is collected after the electronic communications are sent to the contacts and may be used to determine if a template should be modified or if a new template should be created.

The networked environment comprises one or more outgoing communications servers for sending communications to contacts. The outgoing communications servers are configured to send electronic communications in batches each batch having an assigned index number via a plurality of electronic communication protocols. The communications themselves may include data unique to each recipient such as transaction data e.g. a name and price of a recently purchased item and or personally identifiable information PII e.g. name and address of a user . In some instances the outgoing communications servers are to maintain a record of previously sent communications. In embodiments where the communications sent are email messages the record may identify the sent messages by header information the index number of the batch a site from which the message was sent a date the messages were sent and or a code release version used to generate the email message.

Example communications protocols used by the outgoing communications servers include SMTP SMS MMS facsimile protocols and voice messaging protocols. The communications are sent over a network such as the Internet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN to the contacts. The contacts access the communications using a plurality of contact machines . The contact machines may be for example a computer a handheld device a telephone a fax machine or the like.

To provide the communications inventory the outgoing communications servers are in electronic communication with a communications inventory server . The outgoing communications servers send a plurality of sampled communications to the communications inventory server . Each sampled communication is one communication of a batch of communications sent to the contacts. The outgoing communications servers may sample the outgoing communications continuously and cache the sampled communications until they are sent to the communications inventory server . In some instances the outgoing communications servers individually compare the sampled communication to communications or records of communication that were previously sent from itself to the communications inventory server to avoid sending duplicate communications.

The communications inventory server is to receive the sampled communications from the outgoing communications servers . In some embodiments the communications inventory server scrubs personally identifiable information PII from the sampled communications. The communications inventory server compares the sampled communication to other sampled communications to avoid storing duplicate communications. The communications are then stored in a communications database as described in greater detail below.

To access and review the stored communications a validation client may be provided. The validation client may be accessible via a browser or dedicated application in a computer system. The validation client may provide a number of user interfaces to access search sort and or view the communications as described further below.

The capture module is to receive the communications from the outgoing communications servers of . As the outgoing communications servers may include a number of servers the capture module may poll each server of the outgoing communications servers at a predetermined frequency e.g. once per day . When polled the capture module receives one or more cached communications from the polled server. The cached communications may or may not be transmitted with a record of the communications generated by the respective outgoing communications server . If the communication is an email message the record may include data such as header information a unique email identifier a site the email message was sent from a date the email messages was sent and or a code release version used to generate the email message.

Upon the capture of the email messages the scrubber module may remove any PII in the communication. PII may comprise a user s name address telephone number email address username account number payment data e.g. credit card number billing address checking account number etc. birth date social security number password etc. The PII may be removed according to a set of heuristics to identify the PII. In some instances the communications themselves may include one or more tags or field identifiers identifying a portion of the communication as containing PII or a specific type of data that is PII. In other instances the PII may be identified by one or more special characters e.g. an email address may be identified by an symbol or according to an expected format e.g. a social security number may be identified by the format nnn nn nnnn The identified PII may be removed or may be replaced using a placeholder. For example a contact s first name may be replaced with the placeholder firstname. The placeholder itself may or may not be indicative of the PII being replaced.

The match module determines whether a copy of the captured communication has been previously stored in the communications database of . Duplicate captured communications may occur for example if the batch containing both captured communications was sent from more than one of the outgoing communications servers . The match module may make the determination based on one or more characteristics of each captured communication. For instance the match module may compare an index number of the communication and a site from which the communication was sent.

The rules module determines whether the communication complies with one or more heuristics. The heuristics are based on the entity policies for out going communications or on templates from which the communications are generated. The rules module may parse each communication according to the heuristics and flag violations within the communication. The communication may be parsed based on parts of the communication. For example an email message comprises a header and a body each of which is parsed according to at least some of the heuristics. Alternatively or additionally the communication may itself be flagged if a threshold number of violations is met and or if a specific violation is present. In some instances more than one set of heuristics may exist. Further each communication or portion thereof may be evaluated using more than one set of heuristics. The heuristics used to evaluate a particular communication may be selected based on for example a type of communication e.g. email SMS message voice message etc. a site from which the communication was sent e.g. country and or an index number of the communication.

The heuristics may include determining if a logo is included in a message if the recipient of the message is greeted by name if a correct footer in the body of the communication is used if links to websites email addresses etc. included in the body of the communication are active and link to the correct page and if the From email address or telephone number is readily recognizable as being from the entity. Particularly for the heuristics involving links in the body of the message some links such as an unsubscribe link may be excluded from testing. The heuristics may additionally or alternatively include comparing the email format to an existing template evaluating the message based on specified guidelines such as a call to action CTA merchandizing logic image sizes image placement guidelines and whether links and references have alternative text and a determination that a pre defined set of components e.g. text and graphics are included or excluded from a message.

In some embodiments the rules module may determine a type of the communication of an outgoing communication to determine a set or portion of the heuristics to apply. To illustrate the outgoing communication may be identified as an email having an html version or as an SMS message. A first set of heuristics may be applied to emails comprising an html version while a second set of heuristics may be applied to the SMS messages.

In some instances if for example a logo is detected or if the communication is otherwise in compliance with the entity policy the rules module may record compliance metadata indicating that the communication is compliant with one or more entity policies. The compliance metadata may be stored in the communications database for example. In some instances the communications may be indexed according to the compliance metadata. In other instances the communications may be flagged as being compliant with one or more entity policies.

The indexing module identifies index data based on the characteristics of the communication. The index data may be used to populate a database for sorting and or organizing the communications. The index data may include an index number a version number a name e.g. subject of the communication a date the communication was received a site by country or geographical region from which the communication was sent and or by detected violations. For communications generated based on a template other characteristics that may be identified include a template used to generate the communication a date that template was last updated a project identifier associated with the template and or the author of the template. To more efficiently allocate review of the stored communications one or more people may be assigned to review the communication. Additional or alternative characteristics of the stored communication may also be identified.

The interface module provides a user interface and or an application programming interface API for accessing the index data and or the communications inventory. The interface module may allow access to the index data and or the communications inventory based on roles and permissions associated with a reviewer.

In an operation a communication is received from a respective outgoing communication server of . The communication may be received as one communication of a plurality of communications from the respective outgoing communication server . The communications may be received periodically from the outgoing communications servers e.g. once every twenty four hours .

In an operation the PII is removed from the received communication. The operation may be performed by the scrubber module of . The PII may or may not be replaced with one or more placeholders. In some instances the PII may be partially removed for example a recipient s first name may be replaced by only the first letter of the first name.

In an operation a determination is made as to whether the received communication matches a communication that was previously received. The matching may be performed by the match module of . Two communications may match even if they have different recipients i.e. contain or previously contained different PII and or different transaction data.

In an operation if the communication does not match another stored communication the communication is stored in the communications database and indexed by the indexing module of . The index may be stored in the communications database of or in another location.

In an operation the stored communication may be analyzed using one or more heuristics or sets of heuristics by the rules module of . The stored communication and or portions of the stored communication may be flagged as containing one or more violations of the heuristics. The flags may or may not be added to the index.

In some instances the operation may comprise comparing the stored communication to a template from which the communication was generated. The template may be identified based for example on a template identifier in the header or body of the communication. Based on the comparison one or more inconsistencies may be flagged.

Referring to an example template from which a communication may be generated is shown. The template may comprise text graphics a sender address and one or more fields that are fillable with information specific to a user. The template shown includes fillable fields having an underlined alphanumeric identifier.

Referring to an example data structure within for example communications database for storing flags associated with a particular message is shown. The example data structure comprises a message text from an outgoing communication. The message text is associated with a message ID and one or more flags and . The flags and may indicate that the outgoing communication is either compliant or non compliant with one or more entity policies.

Referring back to in an operation the stored communication s index data and or flags are provided to a reviewer at the validation client of . The reviewer may be a user or may initiate an automatic process such as for example a batch application a bot or a notification program. The reviewer may receive the one or more of the stored communications as search results in response to performing a query on the index data or on the stored communications. The reviewer may view the stored communication s index data and or flags as a webpage spreadsheet database or other user interface. The reviewer may be able to annotate the stored communication s index data and or flags.

The email data field includes all or a portion of the index data corresponding to this particular stored communication. The html version region includes a copy of or a screenshot of the HTML version of the email stored in the communications database of . The html version may include one or more images live links or other features supported by HTML. The text version region is a copy of or a screenshot of the text version of the same communication. The text version is typically the same as the html version except that it does not include the additional features supported by HTML.

As shown the user interface is scrubbed of PII. The PII has been replaced by one or more placeholders. For example the user s email address in the To field is replaced by a generic email address namely publication user email.com and the user s name is replaced by the placeholder Username. In some instances the interface may include one or more flags. The flags may be displayed as a list highlighted portions arrows or other visual indicators of the heuristics violations.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

Thus a method and system to generate and maintain a communications inventory have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Various embodiments described herein may operate to solve one or more technical problems by allowing outgoing communications to be monitored to anticipate contact needs and questions. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Some embodiments described herein may be used to solve one or more technical problems. For example some embodiments may facilitate more efficient resource management and reduce the need to redeploy a system in event of a failure or performance lag or when adding to or modifying an architecture domain.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. .sctn.1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

