---

title: Methods, devices, and computer program products for providing a computing application rating
abstract: A rating is provided for a computing application. Traffic data, power data, and/or network signaling load data is collected for a computing application and compared with other similar data. A rating for the computing application is provided based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477283&OS=09477283&RS=09477283
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 09477283
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150406
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 172 925 filed Jun. 30 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 003 017. The entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to telecommunications and more particularly to providing computing application ratings.

Users of wireless communication devices such as smartphones are provided with a wide array of applications. In selecting which applications to download and activate on their devices users often consult application ratings. Typically each application in an application store is rated based on feedback of other users indicating satisfaction with the application in terms of features performance etc. The information provided by such ratings while somewhat useful is limited.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form the concepts being further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of this disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

According to an exemplary embodiment a method provides a rating for a computing application. The method includes collecting via a communication network at least one of traffic data and power data. The traffic data includes data representative of traffic volume generated by usage of the computing application and the power data includes data representative of power consumed by usage of the computing application. The method also includes comparing the traffic data with other traffic volume data and or comparing the power data with other power consumption data. A rating is provided for the computing application based on the comparison.

According to another embodiment a device provides a rating for a computing application. The device includes a receiver configured to collect at least one of traffic data and power data. The traffic data includes data representative of traffic volume generated by usage of the computing application and the power data includes data representative of power consumed by usage of the computing application. The device also includes a processor configured to compare the traffic data with other traffic volume data and or compare the power data with other power consumption data. A rating is provided for the computing application based on the comparison.

According to another embodiment a tangible computer program product includes a storage medium upon which instructions are recorded that when executed by a processor perform acts for providing a rating for a computing application. The acts include collecting via a communication network at least one of traffic data and power data. The traffic data includes data representative of traffic volume generated by usage of the computing application and the power data includes data representative of power consumed by usage of the computing application. The acts further include comparing the traffic data with other traffic volume data and or comparing the power data with other power consumption data. A rating is provided for the computing application based on the comparison.

Detailed exemplary embodiments are disclosed herein. It must be understood that the embodiments described and illustrated are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein the word exemplary is used expansively to refer to embodiments that serve as examples or illustrations. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting.

Traditionally application developers designed computing applications for the personal computer user. As personal computers typically have ample power resources developers and end users had little concern about power consumed by computing applications. Also traffic volume generated by use of computing applications was not typically a large concern for personal computers as end users were not typically billed according to data usage. For mobile communication devices such as smart phones power consumption is an important consideration because such devices often have limited power. In addition because mobile communication device users are often billed according to data usage traffic volume generated by use of applications by such devices becomes a very important consideration for end users.

According to exemplary embodiments users of computing devices are provided with enhanced information regarding computing applications. Such information may include not only information regarding application features and performance but also information regarding battery life power consumed by usage of the application and or traffic volume generated by usage of the application.

To quantify traffic volume generated by usage of an application such as usage by a mobile communication device or other computing device various data indicating the traffic volume may be collected and evaluated. By way of example the data indicating the traffic volume in some embodiments includes i traffic volume utilized per session ii session duration and or iii session frequency collected at the communication devices A B and C. The traffic volume generated may include a combination of traffic volume generated during an initial download of the application and or traffic volume generated during subsequent usage of the application.

To quantify power consumed by usage of an application the power consumed may be detected e.g. by communication devices A B and C and or inferred or estimated. The power consumed may be inferred e.g. by detecting a packet trace at the device indicating the timing of packets associated with at least one application arriving at and departing from the device. The packet trace may be used to simulate or estimate the state of a state machine of the device to infer wireless state and power consumed. Inferring may occur e.g. at the application rating server and or at the device as described in more detail below.

The application rating server compares power consumption and or traffic volume information collected in connection with a computing application to similar information regarding one or more other computing applications or predetermined standard power consumption and traffic volume information and provides one or more ratings for the computing application. Ratings may be combined into an overall rating for power consumption traffic volume generation and or other information e.g. user feedback or separate ratings may be provided for power traffic and or other information. According to one embodiment traffic volume ratings may be provided in terms of traffic volume generated for downloading a computing application and or traffic volume generated by executing using the computing application.

According to one aspect applications may be classified by category e.g. weather applications. A particular application may be benchmarked within its category by comparing ratings of the particular application with ratings of other applications in the same category.

In addition to comparing collected power consumption and or traffic volume information the application rating server may collect additional information regarding computing applications e.g. user feedback from e.g. communication devices A B and C. Ratings for a computing application may be generated based on the comparison of collected information with similar information for other computing applications and or the comparison of collected information with predetermined or default information.

The ratings may be transmitted to the communication devices A B and C from the application rating server and or obtained by the communication devices A B and C and or users of the devices via e.g. a website to which the application rating server has posted information. Thus a communication device e.g. device A or user thereof may obtain ratings for computing applications used by other communication devices e.g. devices B and C. The ratings may be presented to an end user for use in determining whether to download and activate a computing application as described in further detail below. The ratings information may be provided to an end user by way of any of a variety of outputs such as via a display.

According to an exemplary embodiment the ratings information may be provided via e.g. a website for an application store hosted by an application store provider or another computing application provider in communication with the application rating server not shown . The ratings information may be used by a provider of an application store or other provider of computing applications e.g. to decide what applications to offer end users. In addition or as an alternative ratings information may be provided to an end user via e.g. a website other than the application store either independently of application ratings or in conjunction with application ratings. The power consumption traffic volume and ratings information may also be provided back to an application developer for use in improving the application determining how the application compares with other applications etc.

The communication devices A B and C may be implemented as mobile communication devices such as the device described in detail below with reference to . Alternatively one or more of the communication devices A B and C may be implemented as personal computing devices e.g. a desktop or laptop computer. Some devices may be considered as a mobile communication device and a personal computing device such as smart phones and mobile tablet PCs for example.

Although three communication devices A B and C are shown in for illustrative purposes it should be appreciated that any number of communication devices may provide information to the application rating server for use in rating computing applications and obtain ratings for computing applications from the application rating server .

The application rating server may be implemented as a device such as the device described in further detail below with reference to . The network may be implemented as one or more wireless networks or Radio Access Networks RANs that use exemplary telecommunications standards such as Global System for Mobile communications GSM and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS . It should be understood however that the network may also be any existing wireless or wireline network including any existing or yet to be developed telecommunications technology. Some examples of other suitable telecommunication technologies include but are not limited to networks utilizing Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Long Term Evolution LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technologies. Examples of suitable data bearers include but are not limited to General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSDPA protocol family such as High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA and various other current and future data bearers.

It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspect of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented. While the description includes a general context of computer executable instructions the present disclosure can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software. The term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules program components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers handheld computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Referring to a device may be implemented with a multimode handset and can include a variety of computer readable media including volatile media non volatile media removable media and non removable media. The term computer readable media and variants thereof as used in the specification and claims can include storage media. Storage media can include volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media such as for example RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store information that can be accessed by the device .

The device may include a display for displaying multimedia such as for example text images video and telephone functions such as Caller ID data setup functions menus music metadata messages wallpaper graphics Internet content device status preference settings and the like.

According to exemplary embodiment the display may display application ratings for various computing applications which may be obtained e.g. from an application store website. Also the display may indicate traffic volume and power consumption during use of a computing application.

The device may include a processor for controlling and or processing data. A memory can interface with the processor for the storage of data and or applications .

The applications may also include a user interface UI application . The UI application can interact with a client e.g. an operating system to facilitate user interaction with device functionality and data for example entering message content viewing received messages answering initiating calls entering deleting data password entry and settings configuring settings address book manipulation and the like. Such user interaction may be facilitated via e.g. a keypad or a touchscreen included in the device or communicating with the device via the I O interface .

The applications may include other applications such as for example SMS messaging software EMS message software MMS messaging software USSD software a WAP browser add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service LSB applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications combinations thereof and the like as well as subsystem and or components. According to exemplary embodiments the applications may also include applications for determining power consumption and traffic volume described in more detail below.

The applications can be stored in the memory and or in firmware components and can be executed by the processor . The firmware can also store code for execution during initialization of the device .

A communications component may interface with the processor to facilitate wired wireless communication with external systems including for example cellular networks location systems VoIP networks local area networks LAN s wide area networks WAN s metropolitan area networks MAN s personal area networks PAN s and other networks which may be implemented using WIFI WIMAX combinations and improvements thereof and the like. The communications component can also include a multimode communication subsystem for providing cellular communications via different cellular technologies. For example a first cellular transceiver can operate in one mode for example GSM and an Nth transceiver can operate in a different mode for example UMTS. While only two transceivers are illustrated it should be appreciated that a plurality of transceivers may be included. The communications component may also include a transceiver for other communication technologies such as for example WIFI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared IRDA NFC RF and the like. The communications components may also facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks Internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as for example the network the Internet a corporate network a home broadband network a WIFI hotspot and the like via an ISP DSL provider or broadband provider. The communications component can be used to transmit information to the application rating server for use in providing ratings for computing applications. Also the communications component can be used to receive ratings information from e.g. the application rating server and or web site or other device via the network .

An input output I O interface may be provided for input output of data and or signals. The I O interface may be a hardwire connection such as for example a USB mini USB audio jack PS2 IEEE 1394 serial parallel Ethernet RJ48 RJ11 and the like and can accept other I O devices such as for example keyboards keypads mice interface tethers stylus pens printers thumb drives touch screens multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices monitors displays and liquid crystal displays LCDs combination thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface can be used for communication between the device and a network or local device instead of or in addition to the communications component .

Audio capabilities may be provided by an audio I O component that may include a speaker for the output of audio signals and a microphone to collect audio signals. The device can include a slot interface for accommodating a subscriber identity system such as for example a subscriber identity module SIM or universal SIM USIM . The subscriber identity system instead can be manufactured into the device thereby obviating the need for a slot interface . In some embodiments the subscriber identity system can store certain features user characteristics rules policies models contact information and the like. The subscriber identity system can be programmed by a manufacturer a retailer a user a computer a network operator and the like.

The device can further include an image capture and processing system image system . Photos and or videos can be obtained via an associated image capture subsystem of the image system for example a camera. The device may also include a video system for capturing processing recording modifying and or transmitting video content.

A traffic monitoring component may be included that determines traffic volume generated by use of an application by the device . The duration of a traffic session may also be captured. The volume of traffic exchanged via the device may be reported e.g. in bytes to the application rating server via the communications component and the network . Similarly the session duration may be reported e.g. in seconds to the application rating server .

According to an exemplary embodiment the traffic monitoring component may include a pcap packet capture interface including an application programming interface API for capturing network traffic. For example a library such as libpcap and an application such as tcpdump may be included for capturing packets for analysis. The application and library may be included as part of the traffic monitoring component and or as part of the memory and other applications respectively. In addition or as an alternative traffic volume may be monitored e.g. by another component e.g. the application rating server via the network .

A power usage monitoring unit may be included to detect power consumed during use of an application by the device and report the power consumption e.g. in Joules to the application rating server via the communications component and the network . In an exemplary embodiment the power usage monitoring unit detects power usage by monitoring the power level of the power source . According to an exemplary embodiment power consumption for a given state is constant for the device . Thus in addition or as an alternative the power usage monitoring unit or another component may be used to collect packet traces showing the times of arrival of packets and departure of packets at the device . The packet traces may be evaluated e.g. by the application rating server to infer power usage as described in more detail below.

The power source may include e.g. batteries and or other power subsystems AC or DC . The power source can interface with an exemplary power system or charging equipment via a power I O component .

According to exemplary embodiments power consumption and or traffic volume of computing applications is taken into account in providing ratings for the applications. According to one aspect delays in packet transmission during use of an application are taken into account in determining power consumed by the application.

In the past application developers could ignore underlying transport layers as the transport layers did not affect power consumption. However with the emergence of wireless devices such as smartphones with limited power supplies the delays in packet transmission across cellular network transport layers have to be taken into account. For example the UMTS network has a high latency e.g. 100 msec gap between packets.

The wireless layer supporting an application is based on a state machine and the performance of the application depends on timing of previous packets. State transitions impact end user experience and generate signaling load. For example in applications such as Pandora in which data is sent in large bursts interspersed with advertisements a large of amount of power is consumed in receiving the advertisements. In fact the amount of power consumed in receiving advertisements may exceed the power consumed in receiving the large bursts of non advertisement data.

As another example applications with a constant bitrate such as Internet radio broadcasts consume more power than applications such as Pandora with bursty streaming as the mobile communication device is always in the state for receiving constant bit rate streaming. As can be seen from these examples channel occupation time and battery life are wasted by applications generating scattered bursts and ignoring the underlying state machine.

Using the UMTS network as an example an important factor affecting application performance and network energy efficiency is a radio resource control RRC state machine. The RRC state machine functions to efficiently utilize limited radio resources and to improve handset battery life. Although the state machine for a UMTS network is described for illustrative purposes it should be appreciated that the embodiments described applies to state machines used in other types of wireless networks.

Application traffic patterns trigger RRC state transitions which in turn affect radio resource utilization handset energy consumption and user experience. As shown in there are two types of RRC state transitions promotions indicated with solid lines and demotions indicated with dashed lines . Promotions switch from a state with lower radio resource power consumption to a state with higher radio resource power consumption and demotions switch from a state with higher radio resource power consumption to a state with lower radio resource power consumption. As shown in during the transitions between states there are idle periods. These are due for example to promotion delays caused by the exchange of control messages during promotion transitions and or tail times that occur before a demotion transition. Awareness of the RRC states and their transition behavior is important to ensuring efficient network energy usage.

According to an exemplary embodiment a computing device such as the device collects packet traces indicating timing of arrival and departure of packets. The packet traces reflect the idle time during transitions between states. The state of the device is inferred or simulated based on the timing of the packets associated with the application. The state may be inferred e.g. at the device or at the application rating server based on the packet traces. Power consumption is inferred based on the simulated or inferred state of the handset.

In addition to impacting the power consumption of a computing device e.g. the device state transitions affect signaling load across a network e.g. the network . That is during each state transition there are control messages exchanged between various components in the network. A large number of state transitions means a large number of control messages are exchanged and a large signaling load is placed on the network. Conversely a small number of state transitions means a small number of control messages are exchanged and a small signaling load is placed on the network. Additionally different types of state transitions provide different signaling loads. For example a transition between the IDLE and DCH state creates more signaling load than a transition from the FACH to IDLE state. Thus according to another aspect the packet traces collected by a computing device may be used to determine the number and type of state transitions and hence the signaling load occurring while the device is using a particular computing application. The signaling load generated by the use of a computing application inferred based on state transitions experienced by devices using the computing application may be compared with the signaling load generated by the use of other computing applications and or a default or predetermined signaling load . A signaling load rating for the computing application may be provided based on the comparison. This rating may be combined with other ratings for the computing application or provided separately. The signaling load rating while somewhat useful for end users may be particularly useful to application developers network personnel etc.

The processor communicates with a memory via e.g. an address data bus not shown . The processor can be any commercially available or custom processor. The memory is representative of the overall hierarchy of memory devices containing the software and data used to implement the functionality of the device . The memory can include but is not limited to the following types of devices processor registers processor cache RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory SRAMD DRAM other volatile memory forms and non volatile semi permanent or permanent memory types for example tape based media optical media solid state media hard disks combinations thereof and the like.

As shown in the memory may include several categories of software and data used in the device including applications a database an operating system OS and input output I O device drivers . As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the OS may be any operating system for use with a data processing system. The I O device drivers may include various routines accessed through the OS by the applications to communicate with devices and certain memory components. The applications can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware not shown as executable instructions and can be executed by the processor . The applications include various programs that when executed by the processor implement the various features of the device including comparing traffic volume and power consumed by usage of an application with the traffic volume and power consumed by usage of other applications providing a rating for the computing application based on the comparison etc. The applications may also include an application for simulating a state of a computing device e.g. a mobile communication device based on a packet trace and inferring power consumption based on the simulated state. The applications may be applied to data stored in the database along with data e.g. received via the I O data ports . The database represents the static and dynamic data used by the applications the OS the I O device drivers and other software programs that may reside in the memory. The database may include for example information regarding power consumption and traffic volume for various computing applications information regarding power consumption during various states of use of mobile devices etc.

While the memory is illustrated as residing proximate the processor it should be understood that at least a portion of the memory can be a remotely accessed storage system for example a server on a communication network a remote hard disk drive a removable storage medium combinations thereof and the like. Thus any of the data applications and or software described above can be stored within the memory and or accessed via network connections to other data processing systems not shown that may include a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN for example.

It should be understood that and the description above are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented. While the description refers to computer readable instructions embodiments of the present disclosure also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software in addition to or in stead of computer readable instructions. As indicated above the term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices mobile communication devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

According to an exemplary embodiment a rating may be provided for power consumption and another rating may be provided for traffic volume for each application. Alternatively a rating may be provided encompassing both. Additionally there may be other ratings e.g. subjective ratings based on user satisfaction which may be provided separately or as part of the overall rating.

Referring to data indicating traffic volume generated by usage of a particular computing application is collected at step from computing devices e.g. devices B and C by the application rating server via the network . At step data indicating power consumed by usage of the particular computing application is collected e.g. from the devices B and C by the application rating server via the network . Power consumption data may be collected based on actual power levels reported by the devices B and C or power consumption may be inferred based on simulated states of the devices B and C as described above. The power consumption may be inferred e.g. by the application rating server . Alternatively power consumption may be inferred e.g. at the devices B and C and reported to the application rating server . At step the application rating server compares the collected traffic volume data and power consumption data with traffic volume data and power consumption data collected for other computing applications. In addition or as an alternative the collected data may be compared with default or predetermined traffic volume and or power consumption data. Although not shown in the application rating server may collect other information such as signaling load data user feedback etc. in addition to or as an alternative to the traffic volume and power consumption data and compare such information with similar information collected for other applications and or default data. Also although illustrates steps for collecting both power consumption data and traffic volume data it should be appreciated that data regarding only power consumption or only traffic volume may be collected either in combination with other data or alone.

According to an exemplary embodiment the application rating server may categorize applications such that the data collected for the particular computing application is compared against similar computing applications within the same category. As an alternative or in addition the application rating sever may compare the data collected for the particular computing application against data collected for a broad variety of computing applications regardless of category.

At step the application rating server provides ratings for the particular computing application based on the comparison results. The ratings may be broken down individually e.g. for power consumption traffic volume and other information or the ratings may be combined into an overall rating. The ratings may be provided e.g. to the computing device A provider of an application store and or a website provider via the network .

The law does not require and it is economically prohibitive to illustrate and teach every possible embodiment of the present claims. Hence the above described embodiments are merely exemplary illustrations of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Variations modifications and combinations may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claims. All such variations modifications and combinations are included herein by the scope of this disclosure and the following claims.

