---

title: Detecting objects within a vehicle in connection with a service
abstract: A system for monitoring a vehicle used in providing a service is disclosed. The system detects when the service is complete, and upon detecting that the service is complete, the system determines, from one or more sensors of the vehicle, that an object which should have been removed from the vehicle after completion of the transport service, remains in the vehicle. The system then automatically initiates performance of a remedial action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09616773&OS=09616773&RS=09616773
owner: Uber Technologies, Inc.
number: 09616773
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150511
---
A service arrangement system can arrange a service to be provided for a requesting user through the use of mobile computing devices. For example a user can request a service such as a transport or delivery service by operating the user s mobile computing device and the service arrangement system can process the request to select the appropriate provider that can provide the service. The service arrangement system can also monitor the service such as to determine the current location of the vehicle before and during the progress of the service.

According to examples described herein a service arrangement system which implement a network service can receive requests for location based services and arrange those services to be provided by service providers. As used herein service providers can include human drivers or human driven vehicles that receive and or accept invitations for services and in some instances autonomous or self driving vehicles that can be used by the network service to transport goods or people. Whether a human driven vehicle or an autonomous vehicle AV is assigned to provide a service the network service can use information from a set of sensors of that vehicle to perform processes when necessary to supplement the assigned service. For example a computing system associated with a vehicle can determine through use of sensor data whether the service has been properly completed or whether an object has inadvertently been left behind in the vehicle.

In some examples a computing system can determine that a vehicle has been arranged to provide a location based service. Depending on implementation the computing system can correspond to a computing system associated with a vehicle e.g. an on board computing system of the vehicle or a driver device operated by the driver of the vehicle or a computing system s that implements the network service e.g. a backend server system remote from the vehicle . During the performance of the service the computing system can detect that an object has been placed within the vehicle based on a first set of information from one or more sensors of the vehicle at a first time. As described herein a sensor is a device that can detect some characteristic of the surrounding environment or detect an event or change in quantity of an amount and provide a corresponding output e.g. sensor data . The computing system can detect at the time the service is being completed or after the service has been completed whether the object has been removed from the vehicle based on a second set of information from the one or more sensors. In response to detecting that the object is still present in the vehicle e.g. has not been removed from the vehicle the computing system can automatically perform a remedial action such as causing the driver or the vehicle to perform an additional operation that would otherwise not have been performed.

In various examples a vehicle can include or be equipped with one or more sensors such as a set of cameras a set of weighing devices a set of suspension sensors a set of light detection and ranging LIDAR sensors a set of ultrasound sensors a set of location determination sensors a set of radio frequency sensors such as Bluetooth or Wi Fi transceivers as well as other sensors used for various vehicle operations e.g. engine sensors tire pressure sensors door open or close sensors seat belt sensors external stereo cameras or LIDAR sensors for AVs etc. . A set of sensors as described herein can correspond to one or more individual sensors or one or more arrays of sensors. Depending on implementation the computing system can use information sensor data from one or more sets of sensors e.g. an individual sensor or a combination of a plurality of different sensors to detect whether an object has been placed within the vehicle and or has been removed from the vehicle.

For example the computing system can detect a position of an object inside the vehicle based on image information from a set of cameras that are positioned within the vehicle with the respective lens of the set of cameras facing towards the interior of the vehicle. In another example the computing system can detect that an object has been placed in or removed from a compartment or the interior of the vehicle based on weight information from a set of weighing devices that are positioned within the compartment or the interior of the vehicle. The set of weighing devices can be positioned in the vehicle such that the respective measuring platform of the set of weighing devices is positioned on positioned below or included with a bottom surface of the respective compartment or interior of the vehicle.

In another example the computing system can detect that a mobile computing device with wireless communications has been placed in or removed from the vehicle based on if that mobile computing device is communicating with antennas in the vehicle that use wireless protocols such as Bluetooth or Wi Fi. In another example if the mobile computing device has its own location sensors the computing system can compare the output of those location sensors to the output of location sensors on the vehicle to determine if the mobile computing device is moving with the vehicle and is therefore likely to be inside the vehicle. Still further in another example the computing system can detect that an object has been placed in or removed from the compartment or the interior of the vehicle based on compression information from a set of suspension sensors that are positioned proximate to or included in a suspension system of the vehicle.

If the computing system detects that an object has been placed within the vehicle as part of or during the performance of the on demand service and subsequently detects at the time the service is being completed or after the service has been completed that the object is still present in the vehicle the computing system can automatically perform a remedial action such as communicating a message to a computing device associated with the user that requested the service and or notifying the service arrangement system that the object is still present in the vehicle. According to some examples the computing system can also instruct the driver or cause the vehicle to remain stationary at a location of the vehicle when the object was detected to still be present in the vehicle for at least a predetermined duration of time. In another example the computing system can instruct the driver or cause the vehicle to travel to a predetermined or specific location where the object can be removed from the vehicle.

According to an example the computing system can also use sensor data to identify what the object is or what type of object has been placed in the vehicle. Still further in some examples the computing system can also use the detection of an object being placed in the vehicle and or the detection of the object being removed from the vehicle to determine or as part of determining when the service has started and or ended.

As used herein a client device a driver device and or a mobile computing device refer to devices corresponding to desktop computers cellular devices or smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs laptop computers tablet devices etc. that can provide network connectivity and processing resources for communicating with a remote computing system s over one or more networks such as a service arrangement system. A remote computing system can refer to one or more computing systems or servers that is remote from the client device the driver device and or the vehicle e.g. corresponds to the back end server system of the network service . Still further in examples described herein a driver device or a computing system associated with a vehicle can also correspond to custom hardware of the vehicle such as an in vehicle or on board computing system that has network connectivity and location determination capabilities.

Still further examples described herein relate to a variety of location based and or on demand services such as a transport service a food truck service a delivery service an entertainment service etc. to be arranged between users and service providers. In other examples a service arrangement system can be implemented by any entity that provides goods or services for purchase through the use of computing devices and network s . For purpose of simplicity in examples described herein the service arrangement system can correspond to a transport arrangement system that arranges transport services to be provided for riders users by drivers or vehicles e.g. transporting objects or people .

One or more examples described herein provide that methods techniques and actions performed by a computing device are performed programmatically or as a computer implemented method. Programmatically as used herein means through the use of code or computer executable instructions. These instructions can be stored in one or more memory resources of the computing device. A programmatically performed step may or may not be automatic.

One or more examples described herein can be implemented using programmatic modules engines or components. A programmatic module engine or component can include a program a sub routine a portion of a program or a software component or a hardware component capable of performing one or more stated tasks or functions. As used herein a module or component can exist on a hardware component independently of other modules or components. Alternatively a module or component can be a shared element or process of other modules programs or machines.

Some examples described herein can generally require the use of computing devices including processing and memory resources. For example one or more examples described herein may be implemented in whole or in part on computing devices such as servers desktop computers cellular or smartphones personal digital assistants e.g. PDAs laptop computers printers digital picture frames network equipment e.g. routers and tablet devices. Memory processing and network resources may all be used in connection with the establishment use or performance of any example described herein including with the performance of any method or with the implementation of any system .

Furthermore one or more examples described herein may be implemented through the use of instructions that are executable by one or more processors. These instructions may be carried on a computer readable medium. Machines shown or described with figures below provide examples of processing resources and computer readable mediums on which instructions for implementing examples described herein can be carried and or executed. In particular the numerous machines shown with examples described herein include processor s and various forms of memory for holding data and instructions. Examples of computer readable mediums include permanent memory storage devices such as hard drives on personal computers or servers. Other examples of computer storage mediums include portable storage units such as CD or DVD units flash memory such as carried on smartphones multifunctional devices or tablets and magnetic memory. Computers terminals network enabled devices e.g. mobile devices such as cell phones are all examples of machines and devices that utilize processors memory and instructions stored on computer readable mediums. Additionally examples may be implemented in the form of computer programs or a computer usable carrier medium capable of carrying such a program.

According to examples the system can include a system manage a location determination an object detection a location database a trip database and a service interface . For purpose of simplicity other components of the system such as a user interface component other databases device interfaces to communicate with device components etc. are not illustrated in . The components of the system can combine to detect objects that are placed within and or removed from a vehicle in connection with transport services. Logic can be implemented with various applications e.g. software and or with hardware of the computing system that implements the system .

In one example the system can communicate with the service arrangement system via the service interface . As described herein the service arrangement system can communicate with a plurality of service providers e.g. driver devices and or in vehicle computing systems and a plurality of client or user devices in order to arrange transport services between users and service providers. The service arrangement system can be implemented on network side resources such as on one or more servers or data centers or implemented through other computer systems in alternative architectures e.g. peer to peer networks etc. . Typically a user can operate a client or user device not shown in for simplicity to communicate with the service arrangement system over a network s and make a request for a transport service at a specified location e.g. a pickup location of the package or a person to be transported . In some examples the user device can run a designated service application that communicates with the service arrangement system . The service arrangement system can receive the request and programmatically select a service provider to provide the transport service.

Depending on implementation if the service arrangement system selects a human driver to provide the service the service arrangement system can transmit an invitation to the selected driver s device thereby providing the driver with an option to accept or reject the invitation to provide the transport service for the requesting rider. In another example if the service arrangement system selects an AV from a plurality of available AVs and or human drivers to provide the service such as described in the service arrangement system can transmit information about the service referred to as service instructions to the system via the service interface .

According to examples the service interface enables the system to exchange data between the system and the service arrangement system . For example the service interface can use one or more network resources of the in vehicle computing system to exchange communications over one or more wireless networks e.g. a cellular transceiver a WLAN transceiver etc. . The service interface can include or use an application programming interface API such as an externally facing API to communicate data with the service arrangement system . The externally facing API can provide access to the service arrangement system via secure access channels over the network through any number of methods such as web based forms programmatic access via restful APIs Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP remote procedure call RPC scripting access etc.

In the example of the service arrangement system has processed a request for a transport service by a user and has selected the AV that implements the system to provide the transport service for the requesting user. The service arrangement system may have determined based on the pickup location specified by the requesting user and the current locations or most recently determined locations of available service providers nearby the pickup location e.g. within a predetermined distance of the pickup location that the AV implementing the system is to provide the transport service. The service arrangement system can transmit service instructions about the transport service to instruct the vehicle about where to go and or what to do. In some examples the service instructions can include user information e.g. a user identifier contact information of the user a user s rating etc. pickup location specified by the user e.g. an address a landmark a location data point corresponding to a latitude and longitude coordinate destination location and or other information such as the type of transport service e.g. transport a person deliver a package etc. or details about the number of people or number of packages. The service instructions can in one example cause the vehicle controlling component s of the AV to control at least in part the AV to travel to the appropriate locations. In other words the vehicle control component s can use some or all of the service instructions in addition to other information to control the vehicle to move to the pickup location and or the destination or drop off location.

The system manage can receive the service instructions and in response can perform a plurality of operations on behalf of the system . For example the system manage can process the service instructions by determining information about the transport service it is to perform and can initiate the performance of the transport service by determining the route s to travel to the pickup location and or the destination location and controlling the AV to travel to the pickup location and or the destination location.

In one example a trip manage component of the system manage can create a trip entry for the transport service using some or all of the information from the service instructions and store the trip entry in a trip database of the system . The trip manage component can then update the trip entry with information about the vehicle s location as the vehicle performs the transport service e.g. travels to the pickup location from the current location picks up the user or an object travels to the drop off location etc. . The trip manage component can also record in the trip entry the time and the location of the vehicle when the service instructions were received when the service started and when the service ended. The trip entry can be used by the system and or the service arrangement system to determine the cost for the transport service for the requesting user e.g. after completion and for maintaining a historical record of the AV and or the requesting user.

The location determination can provide the system manage with information about the vehicle s location by receiving location data points e.g. periodically from one or more geo aware resources of the in vehicle computing system. For example the location determination can periodically determine the current location of the vehicle by communicating with e.g. via a device interface the GPS receiver of the driver device one or more other sensors and or one or more transceivers e.g. cellular transceiver Wi Fi transceiver for purpose of determining the current location data point of the vehicle. In one example the location determination can make a call to the GPS receiver periodically such as every two seconds or four seconds etc. to periodically receive a current location data point of the driver device. The location determination can also determine the associated timestamp of each determined location data point of the vehicle. Depending on implementation the location determination can receive a timestamp and or an error value along with the location data point of the vehicle from the GPS receiver or can determine the timestamp of the location data point using a separate clock e.g. an internal clock of the driver device . The system manage can store the location data points in the location database and or the trip entry to maintain data about where the vehicle traveled in connection with transport services. As an addition or an alternative the location determination can store the location data points of the vehicle in the location database .

Referring back to the system manage the trip manage component can also use the location data points from the location determination to monitor the vehicle. The trip manage component can determine the position and the state of the vehicle or system in connection with the performance of the transport service e.g. what stage of the transport service the vehicle is at . For example the state of the system may previously have been in an available state which corresponds to a state in which the vehicle can be assigned the transport service from the service arrangement system . When the system receives the service instructions the trip manage component can place the system in a different state e.g. on route state which corresponds to the vehicle traveling to the pickup location. Similarly each time the trip manage component determines that the transport service has initiated or ended the trip manage component can place the system in a respective state e.g. change from the on route state to the on trip state or change from the on trip state to completed or available state respectively . The trip manage component can store information about the state and or when the state change occurred along with the corresponding location data points in the trip entry of the transport service.

Still further as an addition or an alternative the service arrangement system can locally generate and store its own trip entry that corresponds to or is similar to the trip entry stored in the system . The trip manage component can periodically provide the above described information about the transport service to the service arrangement system e.g. via the state information and or the location data points . The service arrangement system can use the received information from the system to provide updated information about the transport service to the requesting user e.g. the location of the AV and or the current state of the AV etc. . In addition the service arrangement system can determine from the state information and or the location data points when the transport service has initiated or completed and or when the AV is available to provide another transport service.

In addition to creating and updating a trip entry for the transport service the system manage can initiate the performance of the transport service based at least in part on the service instructions . According to some examples a vehicle control component of the system manage can control the AV to perform the transport service. Depending on implementation the vehicle control component can interface with the AV control system or can correspond to the AV control system. As described herein an AV includes i computing resources that implement the system and or the AV control system ii other sub components or sub subsystems to control various other operations or parts of the AV and iii a plurality of vehicle parts. For purpose of simplicity not all parts of an AV are discussed herein.

According to examples various parts of an AV can include but are not limited to a frame or a chassis a body e.g. including doors bumpers windows a cab seats a trunk space etc. tires a suspension system a braking system a steering system an electrical system e.g. including batteries wires cables alarm sub system etc. a transmission system e.g. including a drive train engine etc. a fuel system an exhaust system a cooling system and an AV control system. The AV can also include electronic control units ECUs which include controllers and or microcontrollers and other electronic components that can control the various systems or sub systems of the AV such as a door control unit an engine control unit a speed control unit a transmission control unit etc. The AV control system can be programmed through execution of instructions stored in memory by one or more processors to control the AV by sending control signals and by receiving data e.g. feedback or sensor data from the various systems and vehicle parts. For purposes of this application the AV control system can be instructed to control the AV so that it can safely navigate roads and streets to move from one location to another in connection with transport services.

Still further the AV can include a location determination module or resources such as a GPS receiver and or wireless transceivers to determine the location of the AV relative to other objects or in reference to a coordinate system. The AV can also include a plurality of sensors such as a set of cameras a set of stereo cameras a set of radars a set of LIDAR sensors etc. to enable the AV to detect the real time environment of the AV. One or more or all of these sensors can be positioned on the exterior of the vehicle e.g. on the front rear roof of the vehicle etc. to detect information about the environment around the AV such as the position of the vehicle relative to roads building other vehicles etc. or the position of inanimate objects. For example in order for the AV to travel from a current position or location e.g. determined from the GPS receiver as a location data point to a specified location e.g. the pickup location and or destination location indicated in the service instructions the AV control system can access a stored detailed spatial map s of the region it is in e.g. including map data and determine the route s to travel to the specified location. Based on the detected environment surrounding the AV from data periodically and continuously detected by the set of sensors the AV control system can periodically perform decision making operations that instruct the AV to take a certain action s to move to the specified location. As a result of each decision making operation the AV control system can determine that it is to travel in a certain direction at a certain speed at one instance in time for example and at a next instance in time can determine that it is to decelerate to a certain speed change bearings directions slightly or change lanes etc. The AV control system can provide control signals to the various vehicle components systems accordingly.

In one example when the AV travels to the pickup location to initiate the transport service the system can periodically determine whether the AV has reached the specified pickup location e.g. start location . In other words the system can periodically check when the AV arrives at or is within a predetermined distance or is within a predetermined estimated travel time from the pickup location. For example the trip manage component can periodically compare the current location e.g. the latest location data point provided by the location determination with the pickup location and determine whether the AV is within the predetermined distance or estimated travel time. When the trip manage component determines that the AV is within the predetermined distance or estimated travel time the trip manage component can change the state of the system from the on route state to the arriving has arrived state. The state information about this change can be transmitted to the service arrangement system so that the service arrangement system can provide updated information about the AV to the requesting user s device.

In addition according to an example of the system can also determine whether an object s has been placed in the vehicle in connection with the transport service. In some instances a driver or an AV control system may need to determine if a requesting user has placed an object in the vehicle while being transported e.g. luggage boxes groceries or determine if the object has been placed in the vehicle for a delivery transport service. As described herein an object can correspond to an item s or a person s that is placed within or enters a vehicle. The object detection can communicate with one or more sets of sensors or one or more combinations of sensors of the AV via one or more vehicle or sensor interfaces to receive sensor data and based on the sensor data can determine whether an object has been placed in or removed from the AV referred to herein as an object detection process or operation . In one example the object detection can transmit a set of control signals to the sensors to cause or trigger the sensors to provide the sensor data . Such sensors can include a set of cameras a set of weighing devices a set of suspension sensors a set of light detection and ranging LIDAR sensors a set of radio frequency antennas and or transceivers and or a set of ultrasound sensors that are positioned in or provided with the vehicle to detect the presence of the position of and or the weight of one or more objects.

In some examples the object detection can perform an object detection process by i receiving sensor data from one or more sensors ii processing the received sensor data using other information e.g. models or previously stored data and iii determining whether an object has been placed in the AV when it was previously not in the AV or determining whether an object has been removed from the AV when it was previously in the AV . For example the object detection can receive image information from one or more cameras positioned within a trunk of the AV e.g. with the lens facing the inside of the trunk and process the image information by using image processing or image recognition processes and or by comparing the image information to previously stored baseline image information about the trunk e.g. showing the image of the trunk when it was empty or the image of the trunk before receiving the service instructions . The stored baseline image information can be a predefined image or can be an image captured by the one or more cameras at a time before the AV arrived at or near the pickup location . Still further in one example the object detection can use image processing as well as other stored or received data from the service arrangement system to identify what the object is based on visual characteristics of the object in the image.

In other examples when one or more other sensors are used for detecting the presence or position of an object the object detection can use other baseline or model information as a basis for comparison with received sensor data . For example the object detection can receive sensor data from one or more weighing devices or sensors that are positioned in a compartment of the AV such that its respective measuring platform is on positioned below or included with a bottom surface of such compartment. The object detection can determine a change in the measurements from the sensor data at a time before the AV arrived at or near the pickup location and after the service has started.

Depending on implementation the object detection can perform the object detection process at various times. For example the object detection can concurrently perform the object detection process as the AV travels to the pickup location and or as the trip manage component determines whether the AV is within the predetermined distance or predetermined estimated travel time of the pickup location . The object detection can make calls to the set of sensors to receive sensor data periodically. In another example the object detection can perform the object detection process at various instances when instructed or triggered by the system manage via trigger . For example when the trip manage component determines that the AV is within the predetermined distance or predetermined estimated travel time of the pickup location the trip manage component can transmit a trigger to cause the object detection to perform the object detection process. Still further as another variation the trip manage component can transmit the trigger when it determines that the AV is stationary for a predetermined duration of time and or when it determines that the AV is stationary for a predetermined duration of time while it the AV is within the predetermined distance or predetermined estimated travel time of the pickup location . As another example the object detection can be triggered to perform the object detection process when the trip manage component determines that the transport service has started. By causing the object detection to perform the object detection process at select times the system can reduce excessive consumption of energy and computing resources by causing the sensor s to wake up from a suspended or sleep state and detect or perform a measurement only when necessary.

If the object detection detects the position of an object or detects that an object has been placed within the vehicle based on a first set of sensor data the object detection can provide object information to the system manage . The object information can indicate to the system manage that an object has been placed in the AV e.g. a message or a binary bit can be toggled and or can include information about that object based on the types of sensor s that is used by the AV to perform the detection. For example the additional information can include i what the object is e.g. a box a bag a skateboard etc. ii one or more images of the object captured by the set of cameras if cameras are used iii measurements pertaining to the object e.g. a weight if weighing devices or suspension sensors are used or dimensions of the object if cameras LIDAR sensors or ultrasound sensors are used etc. and or iv where the object is located e.g. what compartment or the position of the object . The trip manage component can store some or all of the object information with the trip entry associated with the transport service so that information about the object can be logged and associated with the particular user.

As described concurrently or before or after the object detection detects an object the trip manage component can determine that the transport service has begun. In some examples the system manage can determine that the transport service has started based at least in part on detecting that an object has been placed in the vehicle. The transport service can correspond to transporting a person and or the person s things from one location to another or transporting an object for delivery from one location to another. The object detection can detect from one or more sensors such as a camera or weighing devices if a person and or objects have entered the vehicle or if an object without the person has been placed in the vehicle. In this example the set of cameras or LIDAR sensors or ultrasound sensors can be positioned inside the cab interior of the vehicle to enable the object detection to detect that the person has entered the vehicle using image information from the camera s and processing the image s . As an addition or an alternative a set of weighing devices or a set of suspension sensors that is positioned proximate to or included in a suspension system of the AV can determine that an amount of mass has been added to the vehicle.

Once the transport service has started the trip manage component can store information about the performance of the transport service e.g. the time and or the location of travel of the AV including the start time and start location of the transport service in the trip entry . As the AV travels to the destination location of the transport service the trip manage component can also use the location data points to determine when the AV approaches and has approached the destination location for purpose of determined at least in part that the transport service has completed.

In one example in instances when the object detection previously detected an object in connection with the transport service e.g. the rider placed a bag in the trunk of the AV the trip manage component can cause the object detection to also detect whether the object has been removed from the vehicle. The object detection can detect whether the object has been removed from the vehicle at different times depending on variations. According to one example the system manage can cause the object detection to concurrently perform the object detection process as the AV travels to the destination location e.g. periodically or perform the object detection process when the trip management component determines that the AV is within a predetermined distance or predetermined estimated travel time of the destination location . As an addition or an alternative the trip manage component can cause the object detection to perform the object detection process when the trip manage component determines that the AV is stationary for a predetermined duration of time when the trip manage component determines that the AV is stationary for a predetermined duration of time while it the AV is within the predetermined distance or predetermined estimated travel time of the destination location or in response to determining that the transport service has been completed.

When the trip manage component determines that the transport service has been completed for example the object detection can perform the object detection process to determine if the object has been removed using sensor data received from the set of sensors e.g. a second set of sensor data . If the object detection detects that the object is still present it can provide information to the system manage indicating that the object is still present in the vehicle. In response the system manage can automatically perform a remedial action. On the other hand if the object detection detects that the object has been removed no remedial process or action is taken. In one variation if the system detects that the object has been removed e.g. in the case of a delivery transport service the system can determine that the delivery transport service has been completed.

As described herein a remedial action can correspond to an operation or set of operations the system performs to return whatever object is accidentally left behind to the user or to make it easier for the user to retrieve the object. In various implementations the remedial action s can be performed by the system and or performed by the system in connection with the service arrangement system . In the latter example the remedial action s can be performed as a result of the exchange of data between the system and the service arrangement system .

In one example the system manage can receive information that the object is still remaining in the vehicle and or information about the object itself e.g. based on recently determined information about the object or from object information previously received when the object was previously detected and can generate an object message based on such information. The object message can include for example a time and or a location when the transport service was completed an identifier of the AV an identifier of the user an identifier of the transport service and information about the object e.g. what the object is one or more images of the object measurements pertaining to the object where the object is located . The system manage can determine a communication identifier for the user e.g. a phone number or email address of the user or temporarily associated with the user s account and transmit the object message to the user s computing device. Such an object message can also include notification information to cause the user s computing device to display content to inform the user that the object has been left behind in the AV and or to contact the entity that provides the service arrangement system e.g. via the designated application running on the user s computing device . As an addition or an alternative an object message can be transmitted to the service arrangement system which can then transmit a message including notification information to the user s computing device. The notification information displayed to the user can provide information about the object and or how the user can retrieve the object. Examples of different notification information is illustrated in .

As an addition or an alternative the system manage can also perform one or more remedial actions by positioning the AV at a particular location e.g. by causing the AV to move to a particular location or keeping stationary at a particular location . For example when a remedial action is to be performed the system manage can access stored positioning instructions that instruct the vehicle control component to control via the vehicle components the AV to remain stationary at i the destination location or ii the location of the vehicle when the object detection determined that the object was still present in the vehicle. By causing the AV to remain stationary at a specified location the object message can inform the user that the user s object has been left behind in the AV and that the AV will remain at the specified location for a predetermined duration of time e.g. two minutes . Alternatively the stored positioning instructions can instruct the vehicle control component to cause the AV to travel to a specified location e.g. a storage location or office building where lost objects are stored and the object message can inform the user that the object can be retrieved at the specified location during certain times.

In some examples where the AV travels to a specified location such as a storage location or a disposal location the AV can use automatically controlled actuators to remove the object from the AV for storage or disposal. For example the AV itself can include one or more actuators coupled to one or more mechanical hands in the vehicle s interior or trunk that can grab an object and remove it. In another example the AV can move to a specified lane or spot at the storage or disposal location open the vehicle doors and or trunk and an automatically controlled mechanical arm and hand or claw can remove the object from the vehicle.

Still further in another example the system manage can provide information to the service arrangement system indicating that an object has been left behind and in response the service arrangement system can transmit instructions to the system to cause the AV to perform one or more tasks. In one implementation the service arrangement system can transmit vehicle instructions to the system manage that causes the vehicle control component to control the movement and operation of the AV. The vehicle instructions can cause the AV to move to a specified location or remain stationary at a specified location.

In some instances after dropping off the user at the destination location the AV may be arranged selected to provide a transport service to another requesting user. As a result the system may perform the remedial action such as transmitting the object message but also cause the AV to travel to the pickup location specified by the subsequent requesting user. In some examples the service arrangement system or the system can transmit a message to the user s computing device which queries the user for an response input to i instruct the disposal of the object ii ask the entity that operates the service arrangement system to hold on to the object on behalf of the user for a duration of time iii request a transport service to a specified location where the object is held or iv request a delivery of the object to the user s current location or specified location . One or more of these options can be associated with an extra cost for the user. The service arrangement system can receive the user input via the application on the user s computing device and can process the response accordingly. For example if the user provides an input to receive the delivery of the object at the user s current location the service arrangement system can process the response as a delivery transport service request identify the previous AV that the object is located in and schedule that particular AV to travel to the user s current location e.g. before while or after completing the subsequent transport service for the subsequent requesting user . In this example the user can be charged for the delivery as a separate transport service in its entirety or as part of the user s previous transport service e.g. as a surcharge .

While the system of is described as being implemented on computing and memory resources of an autonomous vehicle in some examples the system can be implemented on a mobile computing device operated by a driver of a vehicle e.g. a driver device . For example the system can be implemented as an application or program or as part of an application that runs on the driver device and that communicates data with the service arrangement system over one or more networks. In such examples the system can include other components such as a user interface component that generates and presents content e.g. graphic user interfaces on the display of the driver device. When the driver is selected by the service arrangement system to provide a transport service for a requesting user as opposed to receiving service instructions the system can receive and display an invitation to provide the transport service via the user interface component and the driver can either accept or reject the invitation. The invitation can include the user information the pickup location and or the destination location .

Still further in examples where the system is implemented by the driver device the object detection can receive sensor data via a communication interface of the driver device such as a short range wireless communication transceiver e.g. Bluetooth or Wi Fi or a physical connector port. The driver can fix or attach in the trunk or in the backseat of the vehicle etc. one or more sensors which can communicate sensor data to the object detection via the communication interface.

As an alternative one or more components of the system can be implemented as part of the service arrangement system or as part of another remote system e.g. remote from the autonomous vehicle or the driver device that communicates with the service arrangement system . For example the system can transmit sensor data to an object detection that is implemented in the service arrangement system which then detects when an object has been placed in a vehicle and or has been taken out of the vehicle. The service arrangement system can then perform the remedial actions such as transmitting notifications to the user based on the detection.

Still further in some examples other sensors can be used by the system to detect a presence and or removal of an object from a vehicle. For example electromagnetic sensors can be used to detect electronic products such as cell phones tablets laptop computers etc. or other advanced sensors such as chemosensors or gas chromatography sensors can be used to detect objects using smell e.g. food groceries etc. . In one example using electromagnetic sensors or antennas wireless transceivers can be helpful to detect small electronic devices that may be hard to detect in the vehicle e.g. may have fallen or slipped between the seats or under the seat.

In a different application the system can also use the sensor data to detect whether there has been damage to the interior of the vehicle as a result of the requesting user riding in the vehicle and or transporting an object of the user. The system can detect the state of the vehicle s interior at a time before the transport service is initiated e.g. in response to when the service instructions are received or at a predetermined distance or estimated time away from the pickup location of the user using sensors that are positioned in the interior of the vehicle. At a time the transport service is being completed e.g. the vehicle is close to or has arrived at the destination location or has completed the system can again detect the state of the vehicle s interior at this time and compare the information with the previous information about the state of the vehicle s interior. Using this comparison the system can detect whether something has spilled on the seats or the floor whether the seats have been ripped or scratched etc. after the transport service. If damage is detected the system can provide information indicating the damage to the service arrangement system and or to the user device. The service arrangement system can charge the user and or instruct the driver or cause the vehicle to travel to a specified location for clean up and or repair.

Referring to the service arrangement system can determine that a driver of a vehicle or an AV been selected to provide a service for a requesting user . For example the service arrangement system can perform a vehicle selection process to select the vehicle based on the location of the vehicle and the service location s specified by the requesting user. The service can correspond to an object or item delivery transport service from a pickup location to a destination location or a transport service of a person e.g. the user from a pickup location to a destination location. The service arrangement system can transmit to the respective system of the selected vehicle service instructions corresponding to the service that the driver or the AV is to perform. In the example of an AV the system can process the service instructions to control the AV to travel from the current location to the pickup location while in the example of a human driver the system can provide route or navigation information that the driver can follow to move to the pickup location.

At a time after the system determines that the driver or the AV is to provide the service the system can perform an object detection operation using data from one or more sensors of the vehicle. In one example the service arrangement system can receive a first set of sensor information from the system e.g. at a first time and can detect that an object has been placed within the vehicle based on the first set of information . The system can receive the sensor information from a set of sensors of the vehicle. Alternatively the system can detect that the object has been placed within the vehicle and provide information indicating such object to the service arrangement system .

Depending on implementation one or more sensors or combination of sensors can be used by the system and or the service arrangement system to detect that an object has been placed in the vehicle. For example the system and or the service arrangement system can receive image information from a set of cameras or radars LIDARs or ultrasound sensors that are positioned within the vehicle where the set of cameras are positioned such that the respective lens of the set of cameras faces towards an interior of the vehicle e.g. the back seat the front seat the trunk or other compartment . In another example the system and or the service arrangement system can receive weight information from a set of weighing devices that are positioned within a compartment or the interior of the vehicle where the set of weighing devices are positioned such that the respective measuring platform of the set of weighing devices is positioned on positioned below or included with a bottom surface of the compartment or the interior of the vehicle e.g. the platform is at the surface of the trunk to weigh objects that are placed in the trunk or at or in a seat to weigh a person that sits in the back set or front seat . Still further in another example the system and or the service arrangement system can receive compression information from a set of suspension sensors that is positioned proximate to or included in a suspension system of the vehicle e.g. near the rear and or front suspension system or frame of the vehicle . Additionally a sensor can also provide information whether a compartment or trunk has been opened and or closed which can be used in connection with other sensor information.

The system and or the service arrangement system can use information from one or more of these different sources to perform the object detection operation. In addition based on the first set of received sensor input information the system and or the service arrangement system can detect that the object has been placed in the vehicle what the object is or type of object the color or size or dimension or weight of the object what compartment the object is in and or the position of the object. According to an example the service arrangement system can also associate the object information with the trip entry of the transport service and or with the user s profile or account .

In various examples the system can trigger the sensors to determine sensor data e.g. perform detection or measurement based on location information of the AV. For example in order to conserve energy or power the system can trigger the sensors to determine sensor data when the AV arrives at or close to a service location e.g. arrives at or within a predetermined distance or estimated travel time of the pickup location and or when the AV is stationary for a duration of time while at or close to the service location. Alternatively in another example the system can trigger the sensors to determine sensor data in response to determining that the service has begun.

Referring back to the service arrangement system can also determine that the service has begun . Depending on implementation the service arrangement system can determine that the service has begun i in response to detecting that the user has entered the vehicle e.g. in response to detecting the object in the vehicle in step or based on location data points of the user s computing device and the location data points of the vehicle and determining that they are within a predetermined distance of each other ii in response to detecting that a predetermined duration of time has elapsed e.g. ten seconds since detecting that the user has entered the vehicle iii in response to receiving from the user s computing device information indicating that the service can begin as a result of an input being provided at the computing device associated with the user e.g. the user selects a feature corresponding to starting the trip iv in response to receiving from driver device or the on board computing system of the AV information indicating that the service can begin as a result of an input being provided at the driver device or the on board computing system from the driver or the user and or v in response to determining that the vehicle has been positioned within a predetermined distance of the start location for a predetermined duration of time based on location information of the vehicle. In other examples the system detects that the service has begun based on any of the examples i through v .

The service arrangement system also monitors the service for example as the driver or the AV performs the service . As described herein monitoring the service can include periodically determining the location and corresponding timestamp and or state of the vehicle as it travels from the pickup location to the destination location and storing such information in the trip entry associated with the service. The system can provide such information to the service arrangement system . In some examples the service arrangement system can also provide the information about the progress of the service to the user s computing device or to another device . For example the user may have requested a delivery service for a package to be picked up at the user s location and dropped off at a destination location for a friend. The application on the user s device can receive periodically information about the progress of the service e.g. the AV s location and movement on a map from the service arrangement system . As an addition or an alternative the user may have provided to the service arrangement system via the application the contact information e.g. phone number or email address of the friend who is to receive the package. The service arrangement system can monitor the service and provide updated information about the service to the friend so that the friend can track the package as the AV travels to the destination location.

The service arrangement system can determine that the service has been completed e.g. as a result of monitoring the service . Depending on implementation the service arrangement system can determine that the service has completed i in response to detecting that the user has left the vehicle e.g. based on location data points of the user s computing device and the location data points of the vehicle and determining that they are separated by more than a predetermined distance ii in response to detecting that a predetermined duration of time has elapsed e.g. twenty seconds since detecting that the user has left the vehicle iii in response to receiving from the user s computing device information indicating that the service has completed as a result of an input being provided at the computing device associated with the user e.g. the user selects a feature corresponding to ending the trip iv in response to receiving from driver device or the on board computing system of the AV information indicating that the service has completed as a result of an input being provided at the driver device or the on board computing system from the driver or the user and or v in response to determining that the vehicle has been positioned within a predetermined distance of the destination location for a predetermined duration of time based on location information of the vehicle.

After determining that the service has been completed the service arrangement system can detect whether the object that was previously detected in the vehicle has been removed from the vehicle based on a second set of sensor information from one or more sensors of the vehicle e.g. at a second time . For example the service arrangement system can receive the second set of sensor information from the system and can compare the first and second sets of sensor information to determine if there is a difference e.g. difference in imagery difference in weight difference in compression information etc. As an alternative the system can perform the comparison operation and provide an indication of whether the object has been removed to the service arrangement system . The system can trigger the sensors to determine sensor data e.g. perform detection or measurement at a particular instance in time depending on examples such as in response to detecting that the service has been completed or after a predetermined duration of time since detecting that the service has been completed.

Alternatively the service arrangement system can determine whether the object has been removed from the vehicle before the service is determined to be completed. For example the service arrangement system or the system can perform the object detection process in response to determining that the AV has reached or is close to the destination location and or has been stationary for a duration of time while at or close to the destination location. In another example the service arrangement system can determine that the service has been completed in response to detecting that the object has been removed from the vehicle e.g. after performing step .

If the service arrangement system determines that the object has been removed from the vehicle it can determine that no remedial action needs to be performed as the user in the vehicle has taken the object with him or her or another user has removed the object e.g. at the delivery destination location . On the other hand if the service arrangement system determines that the object has not been removed the service arrangement system can automatically perform one or more remedial actions . For example the service arrangement system can message the driver and or the user via the respective applications on the driver device and or the user device to inform them about the misplaced object. The message can include instructions e.g. including navigation instructions for enabling the driver and the user to meet up at a location e.g. the destination location to enable the user to retrieve the object.

In another example the service arrangement system can transmit a message or notification to the user device and enable the user to request a delivery of the object to a location specified by the user. Still further in one example if the vehicle is an AV the service arrangement system can transmit vehicle control instructions to the AV to cause the AV to travel to a specified location. Such a specified location can correspond to a new meeting location delivery drop off location for the user specified in the user s subsequent delivery transport service request or a designated storage or warehouse location to house misplaced objects. The service arrangement system can also message the user device to provide such location information on where the user can retrieve the object.

In the system of the AV can receive service instructions from the service arrangement system for the AV to provide a service for a requesting user . As described herein a service can have a start location and a destination location and can correspond to a delivery of an object or a person e.g. the requesting user . The system can process the service instructions in order to determine what service to provide where to travel to e.g. from the current location to the start pickup location then to the destination location and how to travel there e.g. the route to take .

Based on the service instructions map data and or sensor data used for operating the AV e.g. data from sensors mounted on the body of the AV the system can control the AV to travel to the start location and concurrently monitor the movement of the AV . The system can correspond to include or be in communication with the AV control system to control the operation of the AV by sending control signals to vehicle control modules of various sub systems in response to receiving sensor data from the sensors and feedback signals from various vehicle components. The system can also determine the location of the AV from GPS data for example and monitor the current position as compared to the route and or the start location. Using the periodically determined current location of the AV the system can determine when the AV arrives at or is within a predetermined distance of the start location e.g. the AV is close to the start location . In one example when the system determines that the AV is close to the start location the system can change the state of the AV from the on route state to the arriving now or has arrived state .

At a time after determining that the AV is close to the start location the system can perform an object detection process to detect that an object has been placed within the AV . Depending on implementation the system can periodically perform the object detection process as described in from the time after determining that the AV is close to the start location to a time after the AV begins traveling to the destination location. In one example the system can perform the object detection process in response to determining that the service has started or can perform the object detection process before or concurrently while determining that the service has started. In the example of the system can detect that that an object e.g. a box has been placed in the back seat of the AV from sensor information received from the AV as described in .

Once the service has started the system can control the AV to travel to the destination location and also monitor the vehicle and or the progress of the service . Similarly as described above the system can determine the location of the AV from GPS data and monitor the current position as compared to the route and or the destination location. The system can determine when the AV arrives at or is within a predetermined distance of the destination location e.g. the AV is close to the destination location . At a time after determining that the AV is close to the destination location the system can perform an object detection process to detect whether the object has been removed from within the AV . Depending on implementation step can be performed before after or while determining that the service has been completed.

If the system determines that the object has been removed from the AV the system can determine that no remedial action needs to be performed . On the other hand if the system determines that the object is still present in the vehicle the system can perform one or more remedial actions and or cause the service arrangement system to perform one or more remedial actions such as described in .

Referring to in one example the user device can receive a notification or a message from the service arrangement system or the system after or in some instances just before the service has ended. The application running on the user device can display the user interface which includes image content of the object and textual content reminding the user and or notifying the user that the object was left in the vehicle. The image content can be generated from image information from one or more sensors e.g. cameras of the vehicle. Alternatively if a camera is not used in the vehicle other content representing the object can be displayed in place of the image content such as additional textual content or other graphics or placeholder images representing the object. The textual content in this example also provides a contact information for the user to message in order to determine what to do in order to retrieve the object

In the example of a user interface can be displayed on the user device. The user interface can also include image content such as described in and textual content notifying the user that the object was left in the vehicle and informing the user of a specific location in which to pick up the object. For example the service arrangement system can instruct the AV or the driver to travel to a specific location or remain at the destination location or where the user was dropped off . The service arrangement system can generate textual content to include corresponding content about the location. In the textual content informs the user that the vehicle with the object will be waiting for 2 more minutes or some other predetermined duration of time where the user was dropped off.

According to another example a user interface of can be displayed on the user device as an interactive notification prompt. Such a notification prompt can be in app e.g. displayed as part of the application user interface or out of app e.g. displayed when the application is not currently open and using native user interface notification features of an operating system of a mobile device . In this example the user interface includes textual content that includes a specific location at which the user s object will be stored or held. The textual content can include location information e.g. address or street intersection a time or duration of time when the user can pick up the object e.g. normal business hours or 8 am to 6 pm and a selectable feature that the user can select in order to request a transport service to the specified location. If the user selects the selectable feature Request or Request trip the designated service application can be opened or launched on the user device so that the user can confirm the transport service to the specified location e.g. from the user s current location or from a specified pickup location . Alternatively if the user selects the selectable feature the designated service application can automatically generate and transmit a request for the transport service to the service arrangement system . The request can include the type of service e.g. transport the user the pickup location e.g. the current location of the user device determined via the GPS receiver of the user device and the destination location e.g. 123 Main Street .

In another example such as illustrated in a user interface can include textual content to inform the user that the user can request a delivery of the user s object. The user interface can enable the user to select a selectable feature to request a delivery transport service of the user s object to the user s current location. Similar to the example of if the user selects the selectable feature the designated service application can be opened or launched on the user device so that the user can confirm the delivery transport service of the user s object to the specified location e.g. from the user s current location or from a specified pickup location or the designated service application can automatically generate and transmit a request for the delivery transport service to the service arrangement system . In the latter example the request can include the type of service e.g. delivery of the object in the specific vehicle that has the user s object and the drop off or destination location e.g. the current location of the user device determined via the GPS receiver of the user device . As described in for example the service arrangement system can identify the particular vehicle that the user had just previously used or the vehicle that is associated with the trip entry having the identified object and select that vehicle to go to the user s current location.

According to some examples a user interface described in any of can also include detailed information about the object such as what the object is including color or shape the object type the dimensions and or weight of the object where the object was placed etc. While the examples of are described with respect to the user device in some variations such user interfaces can also be displayed on the driver device to inform the driver of an object that has been left behind in his or her vehicle. Such a user interface can instruct the driver where to go where to wait and or for how long and or who to meet with so that the user can retrieve the object.

In the example of the computing device can correspond to a driver device that is operated by a driver of a vehicle. The processor can provide a variety of content to the display by executing instructions stored in the memory resources . The memory resources can store instructions corresponding to the driver application for example and other data such as one or more trip entries one or more parameters or databases of location data points. For example the processor is configured with software and or other logic to perform one or more processes steps and other functions described with implementations such as described by and elsewhere in the application. In particular the processor can execute instructions and data stored in the memory resources in order to be notified about a transport service the driver is to provide and in connection with the transport service can use sensor data to perform object detection processes. The sensors as represented herein can include a sensor included with the computing device e.g. a GPS receiver as well as sensor interfaces that communicate with one or more sensors of the vehicle e.g. ultrasound sensors weighing devices etc. . The processor can also execute instructions corresponding to the driver application to cause various user interfaces to be displayed on the display such as an invitation to provide a transport service navigation information or notifications about a user having left an object in the driver s vehicle. In addition the user interfaces can include selectable features that the driver can select by providing user input via the input mechanisms e.g. in combination with a touch sensitive display to interact with the driver application such as to indicate when the transport service has started or completed in some examples.

While is illustrated for a mobile computing device one or more examples may be implemented on other types of devices including full functional computers such as laptops and desktops e.g. PC . In another example a variation of can illustrate at least a portion of an on board computing system of an AV such has described in .

In one implementation the computer system includes processing resources such as one or more processors a main memory a read only memory ROM a storage device and a communication interface . The computer system includes at least one processor for processing information and the main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . The main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by the processor . The computer system may also include the ROM or other static storage device for storing static information and instructions for the processor . The storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided for storing information and instructions. For example the storage device can correspond to a computer readable medium that stores location determination instructions and object detection instructions for performing operations discussed with respect to . In such examples the computer system can determine the locations of the vehicles determine the service locations of the transport services and perform object detection processes based on sensor data received from the vehicle systems or driver devices. In addition the storage device can include other instructions such as instructions to implement a dispatch sub system which receives requests for transport services from requesting users and selects vehicles to provide those transport services.

The communication interface can enable the computer system to communicate with one or more networks e.g. cellular network through use of the network link wirelessly or using a wire . Using the network link the computer system can communicate with a plurality of devices such as the mobile computing devices of the riders and drivers. According to some examples using the communication interface the computer system can receive location information from the driver devices AVs and or user devices and can transmit notification messages to user devices to inform users if users belongings have been left in a vehicle such as described by some examples of .

The computer system can also include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT an LCD monitor or a television set for example for displaying graphics and information to a user. An input mechanism such as a keyboard that includes alphanumeric keys and other keys can be coupled to the computer system for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Other non limiting illustrative examples of the input mechanisms include a mouse a trackball touch sensitive screen or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

Examples described herein are related to the use of the computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one example those techniques are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in the main memory . Such instructions may be read into the main memory from another machine readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative implementations hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement examples described herein. Thus the examples described are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

It is contemplated for examples described herein to extend to individual elements and concepts described herein independently of other concepts ideas or system as well as for examples to include combinations of elements recited anywhere in this application. Although examples are described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the concepts are not limited to those precise examples. Accordingly it is intended that the scope of the concepts be defined by the following claims and their equivalents. Furthermore it is contemplated that a particular feature described either individually or as part of an example can be combined with other individually described features or parts of other examples even if the other features and examples make no mentioned of the particular feature. Thus the absence of describing combinations should not preclude having rights to such combinations.

