---

title: 3D immersive spatial audio systems and methods
abstract: Provided are methods and systems for delivering three-dimensional, immersive spatial audio to a user over a headphone, where the headphone includes one or more virtual speaker conditions. The methods and systems recreate a naturally sounding sound field at the user's ears, including cues for elevation and depth perception. Among numerous other potential uses and applications, the methods and systems of the present disclosure may be implemented for virtual reality applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560467&OS=09560467&RS=09560467
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09560467
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151110
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 078 074 filed Nov. 11 2014 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In many situations it is desirable to generate a sound field that includes information relating to the location of signal sources which may be virtual sources within the sound field. Such information results in a listener perceiving a signal to originate from the location of the virtual source that is the signal is perceived to originate from a position in 3 dimensional space relative to the position of the listener. For example the audio accompanying a film may be output in surround sound in order to provide a more immersive realistic experience for the viewer. A further example occurs in the context of computer games where audio signals output to the user include spatial information so that the user perceives the audio to come not from a speaker but from a virtual location in 3 dimensional space.

The sound field containing spatial information may be delivered to a user for example using headphone speakers through which binaural signals are received. The binaural signals include sufficient information to recreate a virtual sound field encompassing one or more virtual signal sources. In such a situation head movements of the user need to be accounted for in order to maintain a stable sound field in order to for example preserve a relationship e.g. synchronization coincidence etc. of audio and video. Failure to maintain a stable sound or audio field might for example result in the user perceiving a virtual source such as a car to fly into the air in response to the user ducking his or her head. Though more commonly failure to account for head movements of a user causes the source location to be internalized within the user s head.

This Summary introduces a selection of concepts in a simplified form in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the present disclosure. This Summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the disclosure or to delineate the scope of the disclosure. This Summary merely presents some of the concepts of the disclosure as a prelude to the Detailed Description provided below.

The present disclosure generally relates to methods and systems for signal processing. More specifically aspects of the present disclosure relate to processing audio signals containing spatial information.

One embodiment of the present disclosure relates to a method for providing three dimensional spatial audio to a user the method comprising encoding audio signals input from an audio source in a virtual loudspeaker environment into a sound field format thereby generating sound field data dynamically rotating the sound field around the user based on collected movement data associated with movement of the user processing the encoded audio signals with one or more dynamic audio filters decoding the sound field data into a pair of binaural spatial channels and providing the pair of binaural spatial channels to a headphone device of the user.

In another embodiment the method for providing three dimensional spatial audio further comprises processing sound sources with dynamic room effects based on parameters of the virtual environment in which the user is located.

In another embodiment processing the encoded audio signals with one or more dynamic audio filters in the method for providing three dimensional spatial audio includes accounting for anthropometric auditory cues from the surrounding virtual loudspeaker environment.

In yet another embodiment the method for providing three dimensional spatial audio further comprises parameterizing spatially recorded room impulse responses into directional and diffuse components.

In still another embodiment the method for providing three dimensional spatial audio further comprises processing the directional and diffuse components to generate pairs of decorrelated diffuse reverb tail filters.

In another embodiment the method for providing three dimensional spatial audio further comprises modelling the decorrelated diffuse reverb tail filters by exploiting randomness in acoustic responses wherein the acoustic responses include room impulse responses.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure relates to a system for providing three dimensional spatial audio to a user the system comprising at least one processor and a non transitory computer readable medium coupled to the at least one processor having instructions stored thereon that when executed by the at least one processor causes the at least one processor to encode audio signals input from an audio source in a virtual loudspeaker environment into a sound field format thereby generating sound field data dynamically rotate the sound field around the user based on collected movement data associated with movement of the user process the encoded audio signals with one or more dynamic audio filters decode the sound field data into a pair of binaural spatial channels and provide the pair of binaural spatial channels to a headphone device of the user.

In another embodiment the at least one processor in the system for providing three dimensional spatial audio is further caused to process sound sources with dynamic room effects based on parameters of the virtual environment in which the user is located.

In another embodiment the at least one processor in the system for providing three dimensional spatial audio is further caused to dynamically rotate the sound field around the user while maintaining acoustic cues from the surrounding virtual loudspeaker environment.

In yet another embodiment the at least one processor in the system for providing three dimensional spatial audio is further caused to collect the movement data associated with movement of the user from the headphone device of the user.

In still another embodiment the at least one processor in the system for providing three dimensional spatial audio is further caused to process the encoded audio signals with the one or more dynamic audio filters while accounting for anthropometric auditory cues from the surrounding virtual loudspeaker environment.

In another embodiment the at least one processor in the system for providing three dimensional spatial audio is further caused to parameterize spatially recorded room impulse responses into directional and diffuse components.

In yet another embodiment the at least one processor in the system for providing three dimensional spatial audio is further caused to process the directional and diffuse components to generate pairs of decorrelated diffuse reverb tail filters.

In still another embodiment the at least one processor in the system for providing three dimensional spatial audio is further caused to model the decorrelated diffuse reverb tail filters by exploiting randomness in acoustic responses wherein the acoustic responses include room impulse responses.

In one or more embodiments the methods and systems described herein may optionally include one or more of the following additional features the sound field is dynamically rotated around the user while maintaining acoustic cues from the surrounding virtual loudspeaker environment the movement data associated with movement of the user is collected from the headphone device of the user each audio source in the virtual loudspeaker environment is input as a mono input channel together with a spherical coordinate position vector of the audio source and or the spherical coordinate position vector identifies a location of the audio source relative to the user in the virtual loudspeaker environment.

Embodiments of some or all of the processor and memory systems disclosed herein may also be configured to perform some or all of the method embodiments disclosed above. Embodiments of some or all of the methods disclosed above may also be represented as instructions embodied on transitory or non transitory processor readable storage media such as optical or magnetic memory or represented as a propagated signal provided to a processor or data processing device via a communication network such as an Internet or telephone connection.

Further scope of applicability of the methods and systems of the present disclosure will become apparent from the Detailed Description given below. However it should be understood that the Detailed Description and specific examples while indicating embodiments of the methods and systems are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the concepts disclosed herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this Detailed Description.

The headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of what is claimed in the present disclosure.

In the drawings the same reference numerals and any acronyms identify elements or acts with the same or similar structure or functionality for ease of understanding and convenience. The drawings will be described in detail in the course of the following Detailed Description.

Various examples and embodiments of the methods and systems of the present disclosure will now be described. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these examples. One skilled in the relevant art will understand however that one or more embodiments described herein may be practiced without many of these details. Likewise one skilled in the relevant art will also understand that one or more embodiments of the present disclosure can include other features not described in detail herein. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail below so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant description.

In addition to avoiding possible negative user experiences such as those discussed above maintenance of a stable sound field induces more effective externalization of the audio field or put another way more effectively creates the sense that the audio source is external to the listener s head and that the sound field includes sources localized at controlled locations. As such it is clearly desirable to modify a generated sound field to compensate for user movement such as for example rotation or movement of the user s head around the x y and or z axis when using the Cartesian system to represent space .

This problem can be addressed by detecting changes in head orientation using a head tracking device and whenever a change is detected calculating a new location of the virtual source s relative to the user and re calculating the 3 dimensional sound field for the new virtual source locations. However this approach is computationally expensive. Since most applications such as computer game scenarios involve multiple virtual sources the high computational cost makes such an approach unfeasible. Furthermore this approach makes it necessary to have access to both the original signal produced by each virtual source as well as the current spatial location of each virtual source which may also result in an additional computational burden.

Existing solutions to the problem of rotating or panning the sound field in accordance with user movement include the use of amplitude panned sound sources. However such existing approaches result in a sound field containing impaired distance cues as they neglect important signal characteristics such as direct to reverberant ratio micro head movements and acoustic parallax with incorrect wave front curvature. Furthermore these existing solutions also give impaired directional localization accuracy as they have to contend with sub optimal speaker placements.

Maintaining a stable sound field strengthens the sense that the audio sources are external to the listener s head. The effectiveness of this process is technically challenging. One important factor that has been identified is that even small unconscious head movements help to resolve front back confusions. In binaural listening this problem most frequently occurs when non individualised HRTFs Head Related Transfer Function are used. Then it is usually difficult to distinguish between the virtual sound sources at the front and at the back of the head.

Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure relate to methods and systems for providing e.g. delivering producing etc. three dimensional immersive spatial audio to a user. For example in accordance with at least one embodiment the three dimensional immersive spatial audio may be provided to the user via a headphone device worn by the user. As will be described in greater detail below the methods and systems of the present disclosure are designed to recreate a naturally sounding sound field at the user s listener s ears including cues for elevation and depth perception. Among numerous other potential uses and applications the methods and systems of the present disclosure may be implemented for virtual reality VR applications.

The methods and systems of the present disclosure are designed to recreate an auditory environment at the user s ears. For example in accordance with at least one embodiment the methods and systems which may be based on various digital signal processing techniques implemented using for example a processor configured or programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software may be configured to perform the following non exhaustive list of example operations 

 i Encode the incoming audio signals into a sound field format. This allows for efficient presentation of a higher number of sources.

 ii Dynamically rotate the complex sound field around the user while maintaining all room e.g. environmental acoustic cues. In accordance with at least one embodiment this dynamic rotation may be controlled by user movement data collected from an associated VR headset of the user.

 iii Process the encoded audio signals with sets of advanced dynamic audio filters accounting for anthropometric auditory cues with emphasis on externalization.

 iv Decode the sound field data into a pair of binaural spatial headphone channels. These can then be fed to the user s headphones just like conventional left right audio channels.

 v Process the sound sources with dynamic room effects designed to mimic the parameters of the virtual environment in which the source and listener pair are located.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the audio system described herein uses native C code to provide optimum performance and grant the widest range of targetable platforms. It should be appreciated that other coding languages can also be used in place of or in addition to C . In such a context the methods and systems provided may be integrated for example into various 3 dimensional 3D video game development environments in the form of a plugin.

In M denotes the number of active sources being rendered by the system and method at any one time. In accordance with at least one embodiment each of blocks Distance Effects HOA Pan HRIR Head Related Impulse Response Convolve RIR Room Impulse Response Convolve and Downmix represents a processing step in the system while blocks Anechoic Directional IRs and Reverberant Environment IRs denote dynamic impulse responses which may be pre recorded and which act as further inputs to the system . The system is configured to generate a two channel binaural output .

The following description provides details about one or more components in an example system for providing three dimensional immersive spatial audio to a user in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein. It should be understood however that one or more other components may also be included in such a system in addition to or instead of one of or more of the example components described.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the M incoming mono sources are encoded into a sound field format so that they can be panned and spatialized about the listener. Within the system e.g. system shown in an instance of the class AmbisonicSource is created for each virtual object which emits sound as illustrated in the example class diagram shown in . This object then takes care of distance effects gain coefficients for each of the ambisonic channels recording current source location and the playing of the source audio.

A core class referred to herein as AmbisonicRenderer may contain one or more of the processes for rendering each AmbisonicSource . As such the AmbisonicRenderer class may be configured to perform for example panning e.g. Pan convolving e.g. Convolve reverberation e.g. Reverb downmixing e.g. Downmix and various other operations and processes. Additional details about the panning convolving and downmixing processes will be provided in the sections that follow below.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure the panning process e.g. Pan in the AmbisonicRenderer class is configured to correctly place each AmisonicSource about the listener such that these auditory locations exactly match the visual locations in the VR scene. The data from both VR object positions and listener position orientation are used in this determination. In one example the listener position orientation data can in part be updated by a VR mounted helmet in the case where such a device is being used.

The panning operation e.g. function Pan weights each of the channels in a spatial audio context accounting for head rotation. These weightings effect the compensatory panning need in order to maintain the system s virtual loudspeakers in stationary positions despite the turning of the listener s head. In addition to the head rotation angle the gain coefficient selected should also be offset according to the position of each of the virtual speakers.

In accordance with one or more embodiments described herein the convolution component of the system is encapsulated in a partitioned convolver class in the example class diagram shown in . Each filter to be implemented necessitates an instance of this class which may be configured to handle all buffering and domain transforms intrinsically. This modular nature allows optimizations and changes to be made to the convolution engine without the need to alter any of the rest of the system.

One or more of the spatialization filters used in the system may be pre recorded thereby allowing for careful selection of HRIR distances and the ability to ensure that there was no head movement allowed during the recording process as is the case with some publicly available HRIR datasets. Further the HRIRs used in the example system described herein have also been recorded in conditions deemed well suited to providing basic externalization cues including early directional part of the room impulse response. Each of the Ambisonic channels is convolved with the corresponding virtual loudspeaker s impulse response pair. The need for a pair of convolutions results from creation of binaural outputs for listening over headphones. Thus there are two impulse responses required per speaker or in other words one for each ear of the user.

In accordance with one or more embodiments described herein the reverberation effects applied in the system are designed for simple alteration by the sound designer using an API associated with the methods and systems of the present disclosure. In addition the reverberation effects are also designed to automatically respond to changes in environmental conditions in the VR simulation in which the system is utilized. The early reflection and tail effects are dealt with separately in the system. For example the reverberant tail of a room response may be implemented with a pair of convolutions with de correlated exponentially decaying filters matched to the environments reverberation time.

In the Downmix function process the virtual loudspeaker channels are down mixed into a pair of binaural channels one for each ear. As the panning stage described above e.g. with respect to the Pan function process has already accounted for the combination of each channel to the surround sound effect the downmix process is rather straightforward. It is in this function also that the binaural reverberation channels are mixed in with the spatialized headphone feeds.

In accordance with one or more embodiments described herein a complementary feature component of the 3D virtual audio system of the present disclosure may be a virtual 5.1 soundcard for capture and presentation of traditional 5.1 surround sound output from for example video games movies and or other media delivered over a computing device. Once the audio has been acquired it can be rendered.

As an example use of the systems and methods described herein software which outputs audio typically detects the capabilities of the audio endpoint device and sets its audio format accordingly in terms of sampling rate and channel configuration. In order for the system to work with existing playback software an endpoint must be presented that offers at least an illusion of being able to output surround sound audio. While one solution to this is to require physical surround sound capable hardware be present in the user s machine this may incur an additional expense for the user depending on their system or may be impractical or not even possible in a portable computer.

As such in accordance with at least one embodiment described herein the solution to this issue is to implement a virtual sound card in the operating system that has no hardware requirements whatsoever. This allows for maximum compatibility with hardware and software configurations from the user s perspective as the software is satisfied to output surround sound and the user s system is not obliged to satisfy any esoteric hardware requirements. The virtual soundcard can be implemented in a variety of straightforward ways known to those skilled in the art.

In accordance with one embodiment communication of audio data between software and hardware may be done using an existing Application Programming Interface. Such an API grants access to the audio data while it is being moved between audio buffers and sent to output endpoints. To gain access to the data a client interface object must be used which is linked in to the audio device of interest. With such a client interface object an associated service may be called. This allows the programmer to retrieve the audio packets being transferred in a particular session. These packets can be modified before being output or indeed can be diverted to another audio device entirely. It is the latter application that is of interest in this case. The virtual audio device is sent surround sound audio which is hooked by the audio capture client and then brought into an audio processing engine. The system s virtual audio device may be configured to offer for example six channels of output to the operating system identifying itself as a 5.1 audio device. In one example these six channels are sent 16 bit 44.1 kHz audio by whichever media or gaming application is producing sound. When the previously described audio capture client interface intercepts this audio a certain number of audio frames are returned.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure there is provided a method of directional analysis and diffuseness estimation by parameterizing spatially recorded Room Impulse Responses e.g. SRIRs into directional and diffuse components. The diffuse subsystem is used to form two de correlated filter kernels that are applied to the source audio signal at runtime. This approach assumes that the directional components of the room effects are already contained in the Binaural Room Impusle Responses BRIRs or modelled separately.

The diffuseness estimation method is based on the time frequency derivation of an instantaneous acoustic intensity vector which describes the current flow of acoustic energy in a particular direction 1 where I t denotes sound intensity p t is acoustic pressure and u t is particle velocity. It is important to note that I t and u t are vector quantities with their components acting in x y and z directions. The Ambisonic B Format signals can comprise of one omnidirectional components W that can be used to estimate acoustic pressure and also three directional components X Y and Z that can be used to approximate acoustic velocity in the required direction x y and z 2 and

Thus the instantaneous acoustic intensity vector in the frequency domain approximated with B Format signals can be expressed as 

Now in order to be able to extract a directional portion from the B Format Spatial Room Impulse Response SRIR the diffuseness coefficient can be estimated that is given by the magnitude of short term averaged intensity referred to the overall energy density 

In the following example a full SRIR has been processed in order to achieve a truly diffuse response. The SRIR used was measured in a large cathedral 32 meters m from the sound source using a Soundfield microphone.

Different SRIRs may require different parameter values in the analysis in order to come up with optimal results. Although no evaluation method of the effectiveness of the directional analysis has been proposed it is suggested that the resultant SRIR can verified by means of auditioning. So far all diffuseness estimation parameter values such as for example the lengths of time windows for temporal averaging the parameters for time frequency analysis etc. have been defined by informal listening during the development. It should be noted however that in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure more advanced methods may be used to determine optimal parameter values such as for example formal listening tests and or auditory modelling.

In accordance with one or more embodiments described herein an overview of directional analysis parameters their influence on the analysis output as well as possible audible artefacts may be tabulated e.g. tracked recorded etc. . For example TABLE 1 presented below includes example selections of parameters to best match the integration in human hearing. In particular the contents of TABLE 1 include example averaging window lengths used to compute the diffusion estimates at different frequency bands.

Because diffuse estimated W X Y and Z channels described above typically do not carry important directional information the methods and systems of the present disclosure utilize the diffuse estimated channels to form Left and Right de correlated values. In accordance with at least one embodiment using this technique a cardioid microphone e.g. Mid or M is facing forward optionally it can be replaced with an omnidirectional microphone and a bi directional microphone e.g. Side or S is directed to the sides so that its rejection zone is directly in the front. In M S the stereophonic images are created for example by means of matrixing of the M and S signals because in order to derive the stereo output signals with this technique a simple decoding matrix is needed 8 9 

As with the directional filtering performed by the HRTF convolution reverberation effects are produced by convolution with appropriate filters. In order to accommodate the inherently long filters required for modelling reverberant spaces a partitioned convolution system and method are used in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. For example this system segments the reverb impulse responses into blocks which can be processed sequentially in time. Each impulse response partition is uniform in length and is combined with a block from the input stream of the same length. Once an input block has been convolved with an impulse response partition and output it is shifted to the next partition and convolved once more until the end of the impulse response is reached. This reduces the output latency from the total length of the impulse response to the length of a single partition.

In the case when recorded SRIRs are unavailable the diffuse reverberation filters can be modelled by exploiting randomness in acoustic responses. Consider the following model of a room impulse response. Let p n be a random signal vector of length N where N is an arbitrary number whose entries correspond to the coefficients of a random polynomial. Point wise multiply such a signal with a decaying exponential window w n e n also of length N. The room impulse response can thus be modelled as 10 where is the Hadamard product for vectors.

The reverberation time RTis the 60 dB decay time for a RIR. In the case of a model signal this can be easily derived from the envelope w n and can be obtained by solving 20 log 60 dB 11 to get

The method outlined above deals with a constant reverberation time across frequency. However in real world acoustic signals this is seldom the case. Looking at RIRs in a roots only manner allows an estimation of the reverberation time in any set of frequency bands of any constant or varying width with great ease. All that must be done is to modify Equation 16 accordingly by only counting the roots with argument between and radians corresponding to

Viewing the tail of an RIR from the point of view of a Fourier series one can expect it to appear like random noise with sinusoids at every frequency scaled according to a normal distribution and each having randomly distributed phase in turn. With this in mind it is possible to approximately reconstruct the tails of acoustic impulse responses as randomly scaled sums of sinusoids with decays in each critical band equal to those of real RIRs. Overall this provides a reliable method of RIR tail simulation.

Let sbe a sine wave with a frequency off Hz and random phase. Let N 0 1 be a random variable with a Gaussian distribution zero mean and a standard deviation of one. It is thus possible to define a sequence

At block incoming audio signals may be encoded into sound field format thereby generating sound field data. For example in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure each audio source e.g. sound source in the virtual loudspeaker environment created around the user may be input as a mono input channel together with a spherical coordinate position vector of the sound source. The spherical coordinate position vector of the sound source identifies a location of the sound source relative to the user in the virtual loudspeaker environment.

At block the sound field may be dynamically rotated around the user based on collected movement data associated with movement of the user e.g. head movement . For example in accordance with at least one embodiment the sound field is dynamically rotated around the user while maintaining acoustic cues of the external environment. In addition the movement data associated with movement of the user may be collected for example from the headphone device of the user.

At block the encoded audio signals may be processed using one or more dynamic audio filters. The processing of the encoded audio signals may be performed while also accounting for anthropometric auditory cues of the external environment surrounding the user.

At block the sound field data e.g. generated at block may be decoded into a pair of binaural spatial channels.

In accordance with one or more embodiments described herein the example process for providing three dimensional immersive spatial audio to a user may also include processing sound sources with dynamic room effects based on parameters of the virtual loudspeaker environment in which the user is located.

Depending on the desired configuration the processor can be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. The processor can include one more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . The processor core can include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. A memory controller can also be used with the processor or in some implementations the memory controller can be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory can be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more applications and program data . The application may include a system for providing three dimensional immersive spatial audio to a user which may be configured to recreate a naturally sounding sound field at the user s ears including cues for elevation and depth perception in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein.

Program Data may include storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processing devices implement a system and method for providing three dimensional immersive spatial audio to a user. Additionally in accordance with at least one embodiment program data may include spatial location data which may relate to data about physical locations of loudspeakers in a given setup. In accordance with at least some embodiments the application can be arranged to operate with program data on an operating system .

The computing device can have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces.

System memory is an example of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media can be part of the device .

The computing device can be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a smart phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a tablet computer tablet a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. The computing device can also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In accordance with at least one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers as one or more programs running on one or more processors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of non transitory signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a non transitory signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. 

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

Thus particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

