---

title: Density gradient cell array
abstract: One or more techniques or systems for mitigating density gradients between two or more regions of cells are provided herein. In some embodiments, an array of cells is associated with a dummy region. For example, the array of cells includes an array of gates and an array of OD regions. In some embodiments, the array of gates includes a first set of gates associated with a first gate dimension and a second set of gates associated with a second gate dimension. In some embodiments, the array of OD regions includes a first set of OD regions associated with a first OD dimension and a second set of OD regions associated with a second OD dimension. In this manner, at least one of a pattern density, gate density, or OD density is customized to a region associated with active cells, thus mitigating density gradients between respective regions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09318504&OS=09318504&RS=09318504
owner: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED
number: 09318504
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20150928
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims priority to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 721 552 titled DENSITY GRADIENT CELL ARRAY and filed on Dec. 20 2012 which is a non provisional filing of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 732 242 titled DENSITY GRADIENT CELL ARRAY and filed on Nov. 30 2012. U.S. application Ser. Nos. 13 721 552 and 61 732 242 are incorporated herein by reference.

Generally semiconductors are associated with an array of cells. For example the array of cells is associated with a region. For another example the semiconductor comprises active cells and surrounding patterns. Generally the surrounding patterns surround at least some of the active cells.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques or systems for mitigating a density gradient between regions are provided herein. For example a first region of cells is adjacent to a second region of cells. In some embodiments the first region of cells is associated with at least one of a first pattern density a first gate density or a first OD density. Similarly the second region of cells is associated with at least one of a second pattern density a second gate density or a second OD density. In some embodiments at least one of the second pattern density the second gate density or the second OD density is adjusted based on at least one of the first pattern density the first gate density or the first OD density.

Accordingly in some embodiments an array of cells comprises an array of gates and an array of OD regions. In some embodiments the array of cells is associated with a second region. For example the array of gates comprises a first set of gates associated with a first gate dimension and a second set of gates associated with a second gate dimension. Similarly the array of OD regions comprises a first set of OD regions associated with a first OD dimension and a second set of OD regions associated with a second OD dimension. In some embodiments an array of cells is laid out within a second region. For example the array comprises a first set of gates associated with a first gate dimension and a first set of OD regions associated with a first OD dimension. In some embodiments at least one of a first subset of gates associated with the first gate dimension or a first subset of OD regions associated with the first OD dimension is inserted. In some embodiments at least one of a second set of gates associated with a second gate dimension or a second set of OD regions associated with a second OD dimension is inserted. In this way large density gradients are mitigated between the first region and the second region at least because respective first sets and second sets are adjusted based on the densities associated with the first region.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects are employed. Other aspects advantages or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

Embodiments or examples illustrated in the drawings are disclosed below using specific language. It will nevertheless be understood that the embodiments or examples are not intended to be limiting. Any alterations and modifications in the disclosed embodiments and any further applications of the principles disclosed in this document are contemplated as would normally occur to one of ordinary skill in the pertinent art.

It will be appreciated that layer as used herein contemplates a region and does not necessarily comprise a uniform thickness. For example a layer is a region such as an area comprising arbitrary boundaries. For another example a layer is a region comprising at least some variation in thickness.

It will be appreciated that for at least some of the figures herein one or more boundaries are drawn with different heights widths perimeters aspect ratios etc. relative to one another merely for illustrative purposes and are not necessarily drawn to scale. Accordingly dimensions of some of these boundaries are drawn taller shorter wider narrower etc. than needed in some embodiments so that the different boundaries are visible in the figures for example.

In some embodiments the first gate dimension is associated with a design maximum gate dimension. In some embodiments the first OD dimension associated with a design maximum OD dimension. In some embodiments the first gate dimension is associated with a gate dimension of a cell within another region such as a cell of a first adjacent region for example. In some embodiments the first OD dimension is associated with an OD dimension of a cell within another region such as a cell of the first adjacent region for example. In some embodiments the first gate dimension is based on a first gate density of a first region. For example a larger first gate dimension is used based on a higher first gate density for the first region. In some embodiments the first OD dimension is based on a first OD density of a first region. For example a larger first OD dimension is used based on a higher first OD density for the first region. In some embodiments the first gate dimension is set based on a gate dimension of a cell within another region such as a first region. In some embodiments the first OD dimension is set based on an OD dimension of a cell within another region such as a first region.

In some embodiments illustrates an array of cells for mitigating density gradients between regions. For example the array of cells comprises an array of gates and an array of OD regions. For example the array of gates comprises a first set of gates associated with a first gate dimension and a second set of gates associated with a second gate dimension . Similarly the array of OD regions comprises a first set of OD regions associated with a first OD dimension and a second set of OD regions associated with a second OD dimension .

In some embodiments the array of cells follows a set of design rules. For example a design rule pairs an empty cell space with a gate and an OD region. In some embodiments a lone OD region is paired with a gate. Similarly a lone gate is paired with an OD region. In some embodiments a lone OD region or a lone gate is a remaining cell space.

In some embodiments at least one of a first pattern density a first gate density or a first OD density is determined for a first region. In some embodiments a corresponding dimension for an OD region or a gate is based on a design maximum. In some embodiments the corresponding dimension is based on an analysis of the first region. For example at least one of a number of gates associated with the first set of gates such as at least one of the first set of gates or the first subset of gates of or a number of gates associated with the second set of gates such as the second set of gates of is based on a first gate density of a first region. In some embodiments at least one of a number of OD regions associated with the first set of OD regions such as the first set of OD regions of or the first subset of OD regions of or a number of OD regions associated with the second set of OD regions such as the second set of OD regions of is based on a first OD density of the first region for example. In this way at least one of a gate density OD density pattern density etc. is controlled for an array of cells based on the first region for example. In some embodiments a number of gates associated with a third set of gates not shown is based on the first gate density of the first region. Similarly a number of OD regions associated with a third set of OD regions not shown is based on the first OD density of the first region. In some embodiments the corresponding dimension is based on an analysis of the second region. For example the dimension is based on at least one of a count of cells in the second region a target density for the second region etc. In some embodiments at least some of at least one of the first set of gates the first set of OD regions the first subset of gates or the first subset of OD regions is at least one of partially removed or removed. In some embodiments at least one of the second set of OD regions or the second set of gates is inserted to replace the removed gates or OD regions. In some embodiments the cell array is configured to be a duplicate of at least some of the cell array of another region. For example the cell array is configured to duplicate at least one of a main pattern an active pattern a surrounding pattern a dummy pattern etc. In this way density gradients are mitigated for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein an implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising a plurality of zero s and one s as shown in in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another embodiment the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

According to some aspects an array of cells for mitigating density gradients between regions is provided comprising an array of gates and an array of OD regions. For example the array of gates comprises a first set of gates associated with a first gate dimension and a second set of gates associated with a second gate dimension. For example the array of OD regions comprises a first set of OD regions associated with a first OD dimension and a second set of OD regions associated with a second OD dimension. In some embodiments at least one of a number of gates associated with the first set of gates or a number of gates associated with the second set of gates is based on a first gate density of a first region. Additionally at least one of a number of OD regions associated with the first set of OD regions or a number of OD regions associated with the second set of OD regions is based on a first OD density of a first region.

According to some aspects a method for forming an array of cells for mitigating density gradients between regions is provided comprising laying out an array of cells. For example the array of cells comprises one or more empty cell spaces a first set of gates associated with a first gate dimension and a first set of OD regions associated with a first OD dimension. In some embodiments the method comprises inserting a first subset of gates associated with the first gate dimension into at least some of the empty cell spaces. In some embodiments the method comprises inserting a first subset of OD regions associated with the first OD dimension into at least some of the empty cell spaces. In some embodiments the method comprises inserting a second set of gates associated with a second gate dimension into at least some remaining cell spaces. In some embodiments the method comprises inserting a second set of OD regions associated with a second OD dimension into at least some remaining cell spaces.

According to some aspects an array of cells for mitigating density gradients between regions is provided comprising an array of gates and an array of OD regions. In some embodiments the array of gates comprises a first set of gates associated with a first gate dimension a second set of gates associated with a second gate dimension and a third set of gates associated with a third gate dimension. In some embodiments the array of OD regions comprises a first set of OD regions associated with a first OD dimension a second set of OD regions associated with a second OD dimension and a third set of OD regions associated with a third OD dimension. In some embodiments at least one of a number of gates associated with the first set of gates a number of gates associated with the second set of gates or a number of gates associated with the third set of gates is based on a first gate density of a first region. Additionally at least one of a number of OD regions associated with the first set of OD regions a number of OD regions associated with the second set of OD regions or a number of OD regions associated with the third set of OD regions is based on a first OD density of a first region.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated based on this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

It will be appreciated that layers features regions elements such as the first region second region dummy region s OD region gate gate region identical dummy etc. depicted herein are illustrated with particular dimensions relative to one another such as structural dimensions or orientations for example for purposes of simplicity and ease of understanding and that actual dimensions of the same differ substantially from that illustrated herein in some embodiments. Additionally a variety of techniques exist for forming the layers features regions elements etc. mentioned herein such as implanting techniques etching techniques doping techniques spin on techniques such as spin coating sputtering techniques such as magnetron or ion beam sputtering growth techniques such as thermal growth or deposition techniques such as chemical vapor deposition CVD plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD or atomic layer deposition ALD for example.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur based on a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

