---

title: Methods and systems for a personal data sharing app
abstract: An illustrative method according to a set of instructions stored on the memory of a computing device includes receiving, by a processor of the computing device, a request for information from a requestor device during a real time communication between a sender device and a communication device associated with the requestor device. The method also includes sending, by the processor, the request for information to the sender device during the real time communication. The method also includes receiving, by the processor, from the sender device, a granted request for information including data requested in the request for information. The granted request for information is authorized by the sender device. The granted request for information is received during the real time communication. The method also includes sending, by the processor, the granted request for information to the requestor device during the real time communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264461&OS=09264461&RS=09264461
owner: 
number: 09264461
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150116
---
Businesses frequently make use of personal information in normal commerce. For example if a customer buys an airline ticket online the customer may enter various information or data regarding the customer. For example the customer may input a name payment information birthdate and contact information such as e mail address and phone number. This information allows the airline to successfully link the ticket purchased to an individual customer and properly receive payment for the airline ticket.

In response to the purchase of an airline ticket the airline may save various information related to the transaction with the customer. For example the airline will save the customer s name and birthdate so that when the customer arrives at the airport an airline staff person can identify the customer by comparing the information in the system to a customer s government issued identification for example.

When a customer performs a transaction with a business the business also often gives information to the customer. In the most basic example a receipt might be provided to a customer who makes a purchase at a retail store. Returning to the airline ticket purchased online example the airline may provide an e mail confirmation of the purchase to the customer. The e mail confirmation can provide many different types of information. For example the e mail confirmation may include details of what was purchased such as flight times departure arrival cities seat assignments and in flight add ons. The e mail confirmation may additionally include a booking identifiers which is a unique code linked to that purchase to make identifying the purchase in the future easy for the customer.

Additionally these booking identifiers are often unique and contain a random sequence of alphanumeric characters. In this way only the purchaser of the ticket has access to the booking identifier related to their purchased flight. This can add additional security to prevent fraud of another person attempting to use the flight ticket. Many other industries utilize booking identifiers such as hotels rental cars shipping companies such as a track your package type feature online retail tour organizers cruise lines and any other type of industry where purchase or reservation of the good or service occurs at a different time to the good being provided or the service being rendered.

An illustrative method according to a set of instructions stored on the memory of a computing device includes receiving by a processor of the computing device a request for information from a requestor device during a real time communication between a sender device and a communication device associated with the requestor device. The method also includes sending by the processor the request for information to the sender device during the real time communication. The method also includes receiving by the processor from the sender device a granted request for information including data requested in the request for information. The granted request for information is authorized by the sender device. The granted request for information is received during the real time communication. The method also includes sending by the processor the granted request for information to the requestor device during the real time communication.

An illustrative method according to a set of instructions stored on the memory of a computing device includes sending by the processor a request for information to a server device during a real time communication between a sender device and a communication device associated with the computing device. The method also includes receiving by the processor from the server device a granted request for information including data requested in the request for information. The granted request for information is authorized by the sender device. The granted request for information is received during the real time communication.

An illustrative non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon that upon execution by a computing device cause the computing device to perform operations. The instructions include instructions to receive a request for information from a requestor device during a real time communication between a sender device and a communication device associated with the requestor device. The instructions also include instructions to send the request for information to the sender device during the real time communication. The instructions also include instructions to receive from the sender device a granted request for information including data requested in the request for information. The granted request for information is authorized by the sender device. The granted request for information is received during the real time communication. The instructions also include instructions to send the granted request for information to the requestor device during the real time communication.

Described herein are illustrative embodiments for methods and systems that provide for a personal data sharing application app . The system and methods disclosed herein allow a business to request information such as personal information from a customer or potential customer while the business is on a call with the customer. For example a hotel reservation operator may be on the phone with a customer booking a hotel room. The operator may instead of asking for personal data or information during the call can merely send a request for the needed data to the customer s smart phone. Advantageously the customer can enter their personal data into the app once before going on any calls and save the data in the app. Once a customer is then on a call and receives a request from a business or operator the app can automatically populate the data types requested with the customer s information. The customer can approve whether to send the information to the operator or not.

Additionally the customer can select or de select certain data types to share with the business and or operator. For example a sales representative on the phone may request the customer s zip code even though that information may not be utilized to complete the transaction that is the subject of the call. In such an example the user may de select the zip code and prevent the zip code from being send to the sales representative. As a result only a subset of the requested data is actually sent to the sales representative.

Additionally the system may include security features. For example a user customer may establish a personal identification number PIN when setting up the app. The PIN is then entered whenever the user customer confirms that he or she would like to send data to a business in response to a data request. In other words the system will not transmit the data unless the user customer enters their PIN to approve the transfer of data. Similarly on the business side a password PIN or other security feature may also be established. Since personal information can be acquired and saved to the software platform and interface on the business side a password or other security feature can help keep sensitive personal information secure and free from compromise to third parties.

Advantageously the methods and systems herein provide for getting accurate information from customers during the course of a transaction. Currently acquiring information can be a tedious time consuming and error prone process. In the context of a person making a reservation over the telephone with an airline or hotel for example a significant amount of information is utilized to complete a reservation. Such information and different data types can include first name last name middle initial address phone number e mail address credit card number expiration date security code a birthdate rewards number financial account information driver s license number booking identifier etc. The accuracy of this information is important. When taking in the information from the person making the reservation the call quality can often be poor and a sales agent may request for the information to be repeated or may phonetically spell the information back to ensure the accuracy of the information acquired over the phone. Such a process can be time consuming tedious and frustrating for both a sales agent and a customer.

Getting accurate information in a timely fashion is also important for people companies governments etc. who are requesting name and address information for people who are interested in applying for a loan subscribing to a magazine fill out a department of motor vehicles DMV form or passport application sign up for a class or adding a name and cell phone number to a bake sale list. Filling out forms with a pen or pencil or transcribing information onto to a computer can be very time consuming. Handwriting can frequently be illegible and difficult to transcribe and transcription itself is effectively re entering the same information over again causing potential duplicitous efforts in data collection.

The systems and methods disclosed herein address the challenges of collection personal information for various purposes and in various settings. Various components may be used in various embodiments as disclosed herein. For example a cell phone application app can be used to store personal information and control who is granted access to it. In another example a server application can facilitate requests between a business and the cell phone app. Further a near field communication NFC device or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Transponder like iBeacon can be used for requesting information when a cell phone use is in close proximity to the requestor of the data or a location of the business that a sales representative or other agent works for .

The cell phone app can hold information about a user. This information can be personal details like first name last name address e mail address cell phone credit card numbers loyalty affinity program numbers driver s license number social security number date of birth other demographic information passport number spouses name rewards account numbers bank account numbers customer account numbers etc. Much of the information that can be stored and transmitted by the system and methods herein is personal and sensitive. The cell phone app can also control how the personal information is released and provides security regarding accessing and transmitting the information on the cell phone app interface. The cell phone app also permits the releasing of the information to businesses that make requests to the cell phone by a business software application.

The system can also include a server that contains a list of registered cell phones. In some embodiments the system may store only the list of cell phone numbers and no additional information regarding the registered cell phones. In this way a user of the personal data app maintains complete control over as much of their personal information as possible. A list of registered business and users who can initiate requests for information may also be stored on the server. Such registered business and users may also be able to save results from historical requests. That is if a business receives information it may be saved by the business either on a business device or the server itself. A list of available data fields from which to make requests for information may also be stored on the server and or a registered business or other user. The server may also maintain information about businesses or other users regarding particular fields that a company may request or are prohibited from requesting. For example a business who sells basketballs may be prevented from requiring social security numbers and birth dates from their customers because that type of information is likely irrelevant to the business of basketball selling. Furthermore the server and or business application may control certain types of data that is transmitted. For example if a customer s credit card number is transferred the business operator may only see for example four digits of the credit card number. The business computer system may still receive the full credit card number for processing payments but it will not be available to simply save and see in the business application and the operator cannot see the whole credit card number. In this way the system achieves added security.

In another embodiment the system can facilitate the transfer of credit card debit card pre paid card electronic funds transfer EFT or automatic debit information in different ways. For example the system may facilitate transfer between a sender and a receiver of credit debit or pre paid card emulation information. For example host card emulation HCE software and hardware may be part of a mobile smart phone such that a user of the mobile smart phone can emulate the representation of a smart card. In other words the mobile smart phone could create a signal that emulates the signal of a unique debit or credit associated with a financial account of the user of the mobile smart phone. In this way the mobile smart phone may be able to interact with near field communication NFC or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Transponder like iBeacon devices or other devices that are configured to communicate with smart cards. In this way financial account and or payment information can be easily shared between a mobile phone user and another party such as a merchant as disclosed herein. Advantageously a merchant may pay relatively lower fees for initiating a transaction using host card emulation HCE information as opposed to keying in the individual alphanumeric characters that represent financial account information. In other words a merchant may pay lower fees to a credit card provider for a normal credit card swipe or NFC smart card transaction than when a merchant employee has to physically type in the credit card numbers of a customer to initiate a transaction. Similarly other NFC technologies that do not utilize HCE may be subject to the relatively higher fees of a keyed in transaction. Accordingly by leveraging HCE technology the system may allow a merchant to pay lower fees overall than it would keying in transactions or using certain non HCE NFC technologies.

In another embodiment the system may utilize emulated financial account information in a non NFC or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Transponder implementation. For example a merchant requestor may request credit card information to book a hotel room for a customer while the customer is on a phone call with the merchant. Using the systems and methods disclosed herein the request can be sent from the merchant to the smart phone of the customer. The customer can use an application on the smart phone as disclosed herein to respond to the request by sending the requested credit card information. In some embodiments the system may facilitate the transfer of credit card information or other payment information that facilitates the similar to keying in of information for a credit card. However in this embodiment the smart phone may send emulated card information that represents the credit card itself. The emulated card information may be sent over a data network facilitated by a cell phone service provider. The emulated card information may also be sent over a wireless or wired network connected to the internet or any other type of remote communication. In this way the emulated card information sent from the customer to the merchant may be used to process a transaction. Advantageously the system may facilitate a transaction that has relatively lower fees paid to a card provider than a transaction that is keyed in as discussed above.

The server and or business application may also have a database of data types or fields that a company or user may use. For example a business may establish a template of commonly used data types. The system may also be preprogrammed with default commonly used data types. Such defaults may be general or tailored to a particular industry and or business unit. In this way if an operator has different types of data that the operator needs from different customers the operator can quickly select a template or predetermined list of requested data types. Such lists or templates may also be previously established lists. The business application includes a requesting function that will communicate with the server and any cell phone user registered to the server. An application programming interface API may also be incorporated into the system. The API allows businesses and users to make custom requests and receive custom data based on data types predefined by the business or customer. This is advantageous for the business or customer because the system can then essentially translate data from a user in to a format that will for example flow directly into a target database belonging to the business or other user. In this way the system can be specially tailored to meet the data sharing needs of varying business.

When a cellphone user is in the immediate area of a business and needs to share information data can be shared over a near field communication NFC device or a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Transponder like iBeacon as just two examples . Such protocols allow a cell phone to share data by for example tapping or holding the cell phone within rage of an NFC device or iBeacon while the NFC reader or iBeacon communicates a request from a business similar to other contexts disclosed herein such as data transfer during a phone call.

The business application permits businesses who subscribe to the service to make requests for information to the cell phones who have the cell phone app. The cell phones all register to the service so that a subscriber s or sender s cell phone number is known but the name or any other information is not. The server allows a business user to send a request to the cell phone app which waits for the request in the background. The request from the business user will identify the business that is making the request and the fields of information that the business user is requesting.

In the context of a phone call when the cell phone app user receives a request it can display the name of the business the name of the person making the request and the fields that are being requested. The cell phone user is asked if it is OK to release this information to the business user. If the cell phone user approves releasing the information he or she are asked to enter a PIN and then the requested data is sent from the cell phone to the server where the business user will be able to access the released data. Such information could include credit card information and a secure element authentication token. For credit card details the information may show as masked except for the last 4 digits and the card provider e.g. Amex Master Card Visa etc. . If a cell phone user does not have a field populated the field can show up highlighted on the cell phone and the cell phone user can populate that field during the call.

The system may have checkboxes by each of the fields that are part of a data request so that the cell phone user can select or de select any of fields thereby controlling what data types the business user will receive. The cell phone user is in complete control of what data field gets released and to whom. The user may release all of the requested fields or deselect several and only send a few. On the cell phone the user has access to the history of what companies people or governments have made requests and what information was released and when.

The systems and methods disclosed herein can also be used to transmit data other than just demographic payment and or booking reservation information. For example the a requestor device may request a photo video spreadsheet presentation text file or other type of electronic documents or file. In this embodiment the document or file may be stored on the sender device. The document or file may be stored to be associated with the software application used for the sending of information or the document or file may be stored on the sender device but not be associated with the software application. Where the document or file is not associated with the software application the software application may still access or find the document or file and send it to the requestor similar to other personal data as disclosed herein that is the user will still have control over whether the document or file is sent by the software application . In another embodiment the document or file is stored in association with the software application. This is a document that can be accessed and is controlled by the software application disclosed herein. In alternative embodiments access to this file may or may not be possible through mediums other than the software application disclosed herein. For example the software application may facilitate taking a photo of the user. This photo may be stored by the application either only in the application specific memory of the sender device or may be stored along with other photos on the sender device. In either case the photo is still associated to the application and identifiable by the application as a photo of the user. Thus if a requestor requests a photo of the user the photo can be easily recalled by the application similar to the personal data as disclosed herein. The user via the sender device can then determine just like the other types of data as disclosed herein whether to send the requested photo or other file or document to the requestor. A photo or other file or document can then be sent to the requestor through wireless networks the internet cellular networks etc. as disclosed herein.

In the context of being at a store or in a physical location a request can be made via a NFC device or iBeacon . The cell phone user can see the request the same way as if they are on a phone call. The request is can also be transmitted over NFC and or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE protocols.

On the server there is an Application Programming Interface API which can allow business users to generate requests from their own internal systems without having to use a web interface on the server. On the server there is an interface which will have a list of all of fields available to make requests of. The API allows businesses or those businesses databases that may call a first name a given name or a surname as a last name to map the fields according to the way their systems use the information. Each of these fields correspond to a field that is available to populate on the cell phone app. Business users can also auto populate a cell phone number from the business s caller identification ID when making a request for information to simplify the request for information process.

In the cell phone application fields are available for things such as record locators serial numbers and ticket numbers. During a call or in the store if a transaction generates a specific number or code that the business or user uses to identify a particular flight hotel reservation or ticket number from a call just as some examples a business user may push that data to the cell phone. All such examples of reservation numbers ticket numbers serial numbers etc. as disclosed herein are referred to herein collectively as a booking identifier. Such information can be stored in the cell phone application and associated with the business that sent the booking identifier. In the future when the cell phone user is on the phone with the business the business may request the booking identifier from the cell phone thereby making it easier for the business or user to discuss a relevant transaction without either party having to research the original transaction or communicate the transaction over the phone manually etc.

From the perspective of the server of the system the following may occur. A request for information can be received from a business computer here called a requestor device. Such a request occurs during a real time communication between a sender device the customer s smart phone and a communication device associated with the requestor device. For example the business sales rep may be on a land line telephone which would be the communication device associated with the requestor device. In another embodiment the communication device may be integrated partially or wholly into the requestor device. For example many operators use headsets that are tied into a phone system and a computer system. Additionally other technologies may be used for a real time communication through a requestor device. For example the real time communication may be a voice over internet protocol VoIP call where the call is placed on a computer utilizing an internet connection. The real time communication may also be something other than a voice call. For example the real time communication could utilize text such as phones for the hearing impaired. In other embodiments the real time communication could be a real time chat on a computing device a video conference or other type of real time communication.

The server sends the request for information received from the requestor device to the sender customer device during the real time communication. The server can receive the granted request for information comprising data requested in the request for information. In other words the server can receive the information from the sender device that it asked for. As disclosed herein the sender has the option to not send all of the requested data or even send none of the requested data. Accordingly the granted request for information has been authorized by the sender device and the granted request for information is received during the real time communication. The server also sends the granted request for information to the requestor device during the real time communication. In other words the requestor device can view access download save etc. the information from the sender device that the requestor initially requested.

The server also associates the requestor device with a first identifier. For example the first identifier may be the name of the company a unique number a phone number of the company or some other identifier. In this way when a requestor sends a request for information the requestor can also include this first identifier so that the server can identify the requestor. Additionally the server can verify that the requestor is actually subscribed to the service by checking the identity of the requestor using the first identifier. The server can also send the first identifier to the sender device. In this way the sender knows who is requesting the information. For example the first identifier could include information regarding the company the operator works for and the name of the operator. In this way the sender can safely rely on the request for information as being legitimate and related to the call the sender is currently on.

The server can also receive a second identifier from the requestor device. The second identifier identifies the party to whom the request for information is directed. Accordingly upon reception of the second identifier the server associates the second identifier with the sender device. By associating the second identifier with the sender device the server can determine where to actually send the request for information. For example the requestor may include the phone number of the sender as the second identifier. This may be accomplished by using a caller identification ID function of the requestor s communication device. Determining a second identifier may also be done in other ways such as requesting the second identifier from the sender over the phone determining the senders internet protocol IP address or any other ways of identifying the sender or the sender device. If the phone number of the sender is the second identifier the server can then associate the second identifier with the sender s device. With that association the server can determine where to send the request for information.

The server may also receive a booking identifier from the requestor device. As discussed herein this may be a reservation or ticket number for example. The booking identifier may come about as a result of a purchase made during the real time communication. The booking identifier received from the requestor device is also associated with the second identifier. That is when the requestor device sends the booking identifier to the server a phone number or other identifier of the sender is also included. In this way the server can determine where to send the booking identifier to during the real time communication. If the sender and the requestor engage in a second subsequent call the booking identifier is then saved in the app on the sender s device. In this way a requestor can easily ask for a booking identifier using the system and methods as disclosed herein to get the booking identifier from the sender quickly and easily. Accordingly during a second real time communication the server may receive the booking identifier from the sender s device and send the booking identifier to the requestor s device.

In an alternative embodiment the booking identifier sent to the server from the requestor device may also be stored on the server. In this embodiment the booking identifier would be stored and associated with the second identifier that indicates the sender s device. Since there is not necessarily private information relating to the booking identifier storing the booking identifier on the server may not compromise the sender s personal information. By storing the booking identifier on the server the requestor device could merely request the server for a booking identifier if a subsequent real time communication was initiated instead of requesting the sender device. Accordingly during a second real time communication the server may receive the second identifier from the requestor device and in response send the booking identifier to the requestor device.

From the perspective of the requestor device for example the computer of the business a real time communication is engaged in between the requestor device or some phone or other device associated with the requestor device and the sender device. In other words a communication between a device related to the company that controls the requestor device and a sender device occurs. The requestor device then sends a request for information to the server. After the server and sender device perform functions the requestor device receives a granted request for information that includes data requested in the request for information. The granted request for information may be some or all of the requested information depending on what the sender approved. In other words it is possible that the requestor device only receives a subset of the information it sought in the request for information. The granted request for information can also be received by the requestor device during the real time communication.

The requestor device can store the granted request for information. That is the information received by the requestor device may be saved by the requestor device. For example the requestor may wish to save information related to a purchase or reservation made by the sender.

The requestor device may also determine a first identifier associated with the sender device. For example the requestor device may use caller ID to determine what number a caller is calling from. The first identifier can then be sent to the server to help the server identify where to send a request for information.

A request for information may be sent by utilizing a predetermined list of a plurality of requested data types. For example the requestor device system may be equipped with software that allows the requestor to select a certain template of desired information. For example a Template A may be pre programmed to ask a sender their name age height and weight. In another example Template B may be pre programmed to ask a sender their name credit card number credit card company credit card expiration date credit card security code and the zip code for the billing address of the credit card. Such templates may be pre stored on the requestor s system or the requestor may determine their own custom templates. Additionally as discussed herein the API may allow the requestor to rename fields of data types requested in order to for example match the fields already existing in the requestor s database. For example the system may call a data type mother s maiden name while a requestor database may call the same data type secret question answer 1. 

From the perspective of the sender device a customer for example the sender may download the app for their smart phone or other device . The sender can then enroll in the system. This involves setting a PIN to be stored on the smart phone which is used to authorize data sharing and adjusting settings and information data within the app. By enrolling the sender has their cell phone number stored in the server. In one embodiment only the sender s phone number is stored in the server while all other personal information relating to the sender is stored on the sender s smart phone. In other embodiments some other personal information data types booking codes rewards codes etc. may be stored in the server. The sender can also enter into the app potential information that requestors may request. In this way when a request for information comes through the sender may not have to enter any or as much information to satisfy the request. The app can automatically populate the fields of a particular request for information and all the sender does is approve the sharing and or enter the sender s PIN.

Once enrolled the sender may engage in a real time communication with a requestor and or a requestor device or other communication device associated with or connected to the requestor device . While in the real time communication a request for information from the server may be received although the request for information will have originated with the requestor . The sender can then approve and authorize the sharing of the requested information. The authorization may occur with a PIN. However other authorizations may also be used such as fingerprint voice recognition password multi stage authentications etc. In another embodiment the level and or type of security used to authorize a sharing of information may depend on the type of information requested. That is the more risky the sharing of certain information is the more secure the authorization process may be. Additionally the sender may authorize only a subset of the total requested information to be sent to the server.

After authorization the sender device sends the information to the server. The sender device may also receive a booking identifier from the server originating from the requestor device . The app can store the booking identifier so that it can be easily sent to a requestor during subsequent real time communications.

The server includes a processor that is coupled to a memory . The processor can store and recall data and applications in the memory . The processor is also coupled to a transceiver . With this configuration the processor and subsequently the server can communicate with other devices such as the sender device through the connection or the requestor device through a connection .

The requestor device includes a processor that is coupled to a memory . The processor can store and recall data and applications in the memory . The processor can execute sets of instructions stored on the memory. In one example a set of instructions may be web browser that displays and or executes a webpage. The processor may also display objects applications data etc. on an interface . The processor is also coupled to a transceiver . With this configuration the processor and subsequently the requestor device can communicate with other devices such as the server through the connection and the sender device through the connection .

In just one illustrative embodiment sender device may be a smart phone and the requestor device may be a desktop computer. In such an embodiment the desktop computer may be used to execute a browser and engage in a real time communication with the sender device . The configuration of the sender device the server and the requestor device is merely one physical system on which the disclosed embodiments may be executed. Other configurations of the devices shown may exist to practice the disclosed embodiments. Further configurations of additional or fewer devices than the ones shown in may exist to practice the disclosed embodiments. Additionally the devices shown in may be combined to allow for fewer devices or separated where more than the three devices shown exist in a system.

The devices shown in the illustrative embodiment may be utilized in various ways. For example the connections and may be varied. The connections and may be a hard wired connection. A hard wired connection may involve connecting the devices through a USB universal serial bus port serial port parallel port or other type of wired connection that can facilitate the transfer of data and information between a processor of a device and a second processor of a second device such as between the sender device and the server . In another embodiment the connections and may be a dock where one device may plug into another device. While plugged into a dock the client device may also have its batteries charged or otherwise be serviced. In other embodiments the connections and may be a wireless connection. Such a connection may take the form of any sort of wireless connection including but not limited to Bluetooth connectivity Wi Fi connectivity or another wireless protocol. Other possible modes of wireless communication may include near field communications such as passive radio frequency identification RFID and active RFID technologies. RFID and similar near field communications may allow the various devices to communicate in short range when they are placed proximate to one another. In an embodiment using near field communication two devices may have to physically or very nearly come into contact and one or both of the devices may sense various data such as acceleration position orientation velocity change in velocity IP address and other sensor data. The system can then use the various sensor data to confirm a transmission of data over the internet between the two devices. In yet another embodiment the devices may connect through an internet or other network connection. That is the connections and represent several different computing devices and network components that allow the various devices to communicate through the internet either through a hard wired or wireless connection. The connections and may also be a combination of several modes of connection.

To operate different embodiments of the system or programs disclosed herein the various devices may communicate in different ways. For example the sender device may download various software applications such as a personal data sharing app from the internet. The requestor device may be able to download the personal data acquisition business software application. In another embodiment the requestor device may access the personal data acquisition business interface through a browser. Such software applications may allow the various devices in to perform some or all of the processes and functions described herein. Additionally the embodiments disclosed herein are not limited to being performed only on the disclosed devices in . Many various combinations of computing devices may execute the methods and systems disclosed herein. Examples of such computing devices may include desktop computers cloud servers smart phones personal computers servers laptop computers tablets blackberries RFID enabled devices wearable electronic devices or any combinations of such devices or similar devices.

In one embodiment a download of a program to the sender device involves the processor receiving data through the transceiver through the internet and from the server . The processor may store the data like the personal data sharing app in the memory . The processor can then execute the program at any time including at a time specified by the user through the interface . In another embodiment some aspects of a program or app may not be downloaded. For example the program or app may be an application that accesses additional data or resources located in the server . In another example the program may be an internet based application where the program is executed by a web browser and stored almost exclusively in the server such as a browser run on the requesting device .

In yet another embodiment once downloaded to the sender device the program or app may operate in part without communication with the server . In this embodiment the sender device may access or communicate with the server only when acquiring the program or sharing data through the connection . In other embodiments a constant or intermittent connection may exist between the server and the computing device . Where an intermittent connection exists the sender device may only need to communicate data to or receive data from the server occasionally.

The configuration of the server the sender device and the requestor device is merely one physical system on which the disclosed embodiments may be executed. Other configurations of the devices shown may exist to practice the disclosed embodiments. Further configurations of additional or fewer devices than the ones shown in may exist to practice the disclosed embodiments. Additionally the devices shown in may be combined to allow for fewer devices or separated where more than the two devices shown exist in a system.

In other embodiments specialized hardware may exist on the devices shown in that is specifically designed to perform or execute the various embodiments disclosed herein. For example the requestor device may include a NFC device. Additionally the configuration of may also include an iBeacon which may communicate with any of the devices wirelessly to perform the functions and methods disclosed herein.

If a user presses update PIN the user is directed to a user interface for example user interface discussed below where the user can set or change their PIN. As disclosed herein the PIN can be used for security purposes and to authorize the sharing of a user s personal data.

If a user presses my info the user is presented with a user interface for example user interface discussed below where the user can update his or her personal information. If a user presses change phone the phone that the user currently has subscribed for the data sharing service will be deactivated. The app may request the phone number of the user s new phone before deactivating the current phone. Deactivating the current phone may include removing the old phone s number or other identifier from the list of subscribed phones on a server and adding the new phone s number or other identifier to the list of subscribed phones.

If a user presses history the user is presented with a user interface for example user interface as discussed below which allows the user to see past instances of sharing data. If a user presses turn off the user exits the app. In an alternative embodiment pressing turn off does not close the app but rather makes it so that the app cannot receive any requests for information. In this embodiment the turn off button serves as a toggle. If the button is in the On state it will read Turn Off and the app will be able to receive requests for information. If the button is in the Off state it will read Turn On and the app will not be able to receive requests for information.

A save button can be pressed to save a new PIN or confirm that data should be shared. A cancel button can return the user to a previous interface screen without changing the PIN or authorizing data sharing. A keyboard allows the user to enter alphanumeric characters as their PIN.

Checkboxes allow the user to select which data to release to Jonathan from Blockwood hotels. Although a checkbox is shown here other embodiments may utilize different ways to designate whether to share each data field or not. Release button allows a user to release to the requestor all of the data that currently has a checked box next to it. In the present embodiment all of the data would be released if the user pushed the release button. If a cancel button was pressed the system would return to the previous screen and no data would be shared or released.

The user selects request info and a dialog appears. In another embodiment the dialog appears by default when the personal data sharing business interface opens. The dialog allows the requestor to enter a cell phone number and select a template that determines what data the requestor is going to request.

If my history is selected the system will navigate to a history display such as user interface as discussed below. If create template is selected the system will navigate to a create template display such as user interface discussed below. If change password is selected the system will navigate to a change password display.

A smart phone is in communication with a control server over a wireless carrier data transmission . The control server is also in communication with a business user computer browser over an internet connection . The smart phone is also in communication with a business user phone over a simultaneous voice call over wireless carrier . In this embodiment while the business user phone is on a call with the smart phone information from the smart phone is sent to the business user computer browser in response to a request for information from the business user computer browser .

Both the request for information and the granted request for information are routed through the control server . The information passed to the business user computer browser can be stored on the business user s system. Additionally the business user computer browser can provide a booking identifier to the smart phone through the control server after something has be purchased reserved etc. by the user of the smart phone .

The smart phone may store personal data to share control authentication of the release of that personal data and store a history of requests. The control server can act as an administrator for the system. The control server may store company and business user authentications a smart phone registry different company and business rights and permissions mediate communications between smart phones and business and include information for field mapping and APIs as disclosed herein. The business user system which may include the business user telephone and or the business user computer browser stores different business rights and permissions like their password s a logo and possible messages for sending as identifiers of the company and as part of a request for information. The business user system can also select what information to request make templates initiate requests for information make calls to the API and store filled requests for information.

A smart phone with NFC capabilities is in communication with a control server over a wireless carrier data transmission . The control server is also in communication with a business user computer browser over an internet connection . The business user computer browser is capable of communicating with an NFC Device over a connection . The smart phone can also communicate with the NFC Device over a connection .

Here the smart phone is at relatively the same location as the business user and the NFC Reader . A business user computer browser can request information from the smart phone via an NFC Device or in another embodiment an iBeacon . The smart phone can receive the request select fields to send back and enter PIN as disclosed herein. The information is passed to the business user computer browser through either the NFC Device and connection or through the control server and the connections and .

In an operation the sender device and requestor engage in real time communication. In an operation the requestor device requests data from the sender device. In an operation the sender device receives the request for data from the requestor device. In an operation the app on the sender device displays the requestor identity and the requested types of data.

In an operation the app automatically populates the fields of the requested data types. In an operation the sender manually enters data that is not automatically populated. In an operation the sender can de select data types that the sender would not like to sender to the requestor. In an operation the sender confirms sending selected data types to the requestor. In an operation the sender enters personal identification number PIN .

In an operation the app verifies the sender s PIN against previously established PIN stored on the sender device. In an operation the sender device sends that granted request data to the requestor including all of the data types that were allowed to be shared by the sender . In an operation the requestor receives the data shared by the sender device. In an operation the requestor device stores the data received from the sender device.

In an operation the sender device app saves the booking identifier in the sender device memory. In an operation the sender and the requestor participate in a second real time communication. In an operation the requestor requests the booking identifier form the sender during the second real time communication. The sender can either send or decline to send the booking identifier to the requestor as disclosed herein.

In an operation the sender device equipped with an NFC reader reads the NFC tag associated with the requestor device. In other words the sender device can determine from the NFC tag what data to send to the requestor device and to where the data should be sent. In an operation the sender device associates the information from the NFC tag with a predefined data set of data types stored on the sender device. In other words the signal from the NFC tag may indicate a predefined data set instead of individual data types. Upon reading the predefined data set the sender device can determine which data types are a part of that predefined data set and can identify those data types for sending. For example the NFC reader may read from the NFC tag an alphanumeric sequence that indicates that a credit card transaction data is needed. The sender device can then recognize that this credit card transaction data set requires the sender device to send for example the name on the credit card the network or issuer of the credit card the billing address of the credit card holder the credit card number the credit card expiration date and the credit card security code. In another example a different predefined data set may be information needed to sign up for an advertising newsletter which may include information such as subscriber name mailing address e mail address and phone number. Using predefined data sets in this way may decrease the complexity of NFC tags and readers utilized. However in an alternative embodiment the NFC reader may read from the NFC tag alphanumeric sequences that indicate particular data types in addition to or in lieu of predefined data sets. In an operation the sender device in response to the information acquired from the NFC tag sends the requested data types to the requestor device through a server wireless carrier data transmission and or the internet as in .

In an operation the sender device responds to the request for the emulated card data and sends the emulated card data to the requestor. In an operation the requestor device receives the emulated card data. The requestor may then process a transaction that advantageously has a relatively lower transaction fee than a keyed in or similar transaction.

In an illustrative embodiment any of the operations described herein can be implemented at least in part as computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium or memory. Upon execution of the computer readable instructions by a processor the computer readable instructions can cause a computing device to perform the operations.

The foregoing description of illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting with respect to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

