---

title: Common template for electronic article
abstract: One or more techniques or systems for incorporating a common template into a system on chip (SOC) design are provided herein. For example, a common template mask set is generated based on a first set of polygon positions from a first vendor and a second set of polygon positions from a second vendor. A third party creates a third party SOC design using a set of design rules generated based on the common template mask set. The common template is fabricated based on the third party SOC design using the common template mask set. Because the common template is formed using the common template mask set and because the common template mask set is based on polygon positions from both the first vendor and the second vendor, a part can be connected to the SOC regardless of whether the part is sourced from the first vendor or the second vendor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613174&OS=09613174&RS=09613174
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09613174
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20150406
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 833 724 filed on Mar. 15 2013 and titled COMMON TEMPLATE FOR ELECTRONIC ARTICLE which is incorporated herein.

Generally an electronic article such as a system on chip SOC is associated with an interface that enables the SOC to electrically connect with a part such as a dynamic random access memory DRAM . Routinely however there are multiple vendors available to provide the part where the part varies somewhat from vendor to vendor such that the manner or mechanism for electrically connecting the part to the SOC varies depending upon the vendor chosen to supply the part. Accordingly different interfaces are generally required to electrically connect the part to the SOC when different vendors are used. That is a first interface is needed to electrically connect the part to the SOC when the part is obtained from a first vendor and a second interface is need to electrically connect the part to the SOC where the part is obtained from a second vendor. Generally an interface comprises one or more sets of features. A mask of a set of masks is typically used to form on the SOC a set of features of the sets of features. For example where vendor A is selected to provide DRAM A a first set of masks A comprising a first mask A a second mask A and a third mask A is used to form an interface A compatible with the DRAM A. The first mask A is used to form a first set of features A within the interface A the second mask A is used to form a second set of features A within the interface A and the third mask A is used to form a third set of features A within the interface A. When a switch is made from DRAM A to DRAM B provided by vendor B a second set of masks B comprising a first mask B a second mask B and a third mask B is required to fabricate interface B on the SOC such that the SOC is compatible with the DRAM B. The first mask B is used to form a first set of features B within the interface B the second mask B is used to form a second set of features B within the interface B and the third mask B is used to form a third set of features B within the interface B. It will be appreciated that the first set of masks A is specific to vendor A and cannot be used to fabricate interface B. Similarly the second set of masks B is specific to vendor B and cannot be used to fabricate interface A.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One or more embodiments of techniques or systems for incorporating a common template into an electronic article design such as a system on chip SOC design are provided herein. It will be appreciated that while SOC and the like are substantially referred to herein the instant application is not to be so limited. That is the instant application including the scope of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to a SOC a SOC design etc. Rather more than merely a SOC a SOC design etc. are within the contemplated scope of the present disclosure. Generally a vendor specific interface is an interface that is formed on a SOC and that enables the SOC to mate or electrically connect with a part such as a DRAM from a particular vendor where the vendor specific interface would not allow the SOC to electrically connect to the part if the part were obtained from a different vendor. The vendor specific interface is for example fabricated using a set of one or more masks and comprises one or more sets of corresponding features. According to some aspects provided herein the SOC is designed such that at least a portion of the vendor specific interface fabricated on the SOC is standardized across one or more vendors. Because at least a portion of the vendor specific interface fabricated on the SOC is standardized across one or more vendors the vendor specific interface is at time merely referred to as an interface as opposed to a vendor specific interface.

The standardized portion of the interface is the same regardless of the vendor selected to provide the part or rather is the same for at least two vendors. The standardized portion of the interface is standardized because a same set of masks is used to fabricate the standardized portion on the SOC. In some embodiments the standardized portion of the interface is regarded as a common template. Similarly the same set of masks used to fabricate the standardized portion on the SOC is regarded as a common template mask set. The common template mask set comprises one or more common template masks where a common template mask is used to form a set of features of the common template. The common template meets design requirements for multiple vendors by comprising features corresponding to polygon positions for example that allow the SOC to be electrically connected to the part regardless of the vendor that provided the part. It will be appreciated however that in some instances a vendor specific layer or set of features is required depending upon the vendor that is providing the part. The common template mask set similarly meets design requirements for multiple vendors by producing the features of the common template.

Given the common template mask set or parameters thereof a set of design rules is generated based on the common template mask set. The set of design rules is provided to a third party such as a customer or any type of consuming entity interested in being able to connect a SOC to a part such as DRAM. The third party generates a SOC design and provided the third party complies with the set of design rules the third party SOC design is compatible with the common template mask set. It will be appreciated that where a mask set does not yet exist to establish an interface for a part from a particular vendor the common template mask set obviates a requirement for a customer to produce such a mask set. It will be appreciated that this results in substantial savings where the customer desires to use the part from different vendors and would thus otherwise be required to produce multiple mask sets generally one per vendor from which the part is sourced. It will be appreciated that while vendor is substantially used herein that the instant application including the scope of the appended claims is not meant to be limited thereby. For example vendor is to be synonymous with merely party entity or the like.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects are employed. Other aspects advantages or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

Embodiments or examples illustrated in the drawings are disclosed below using specific language. It will nevertheless be understood that the embodiments or examples are not intended to be limiting. Any alterations and modifications in the disclosed embodiments and any further applications of the principles disclosed in this document are contemplated as would normally occur to one of ordinary skill in the pertinent art.

It will be appreciated that layer as used herein contemplates a region and does not necessarily comprise a uniform thickness. For example a layer is a region such as an area comprising arbitrary boundaries. A layer is also for example a region comprising a variation in thickness.

It will be appreciated that for some of the figures herein one or more boundaries such as boundary A of for example are drawn with different heights widths perimeters aspect ratios etc. relative to one another merely for illustrative purposes and are not necessarily drawn to scale. For example because dashed or dotted lines are used to represent different boundaries if the dashed and dotted lines were drawn on top of one another they would not be distinguishable in the figures and thus are drawn with different dimensions or slightly apart from one another in some of the figures so that they are distinguishable from one another. As another example where a boundary is associated with an irregular shape the boundary such as a box drawn with a dashed line dotted lined etc. does not necessarily encompass an entire component in some instances. Conversely a drawn box does not necessarily encompass merely an associated component in some instances but encompasses at least a portion of one or more other components as well.

A second set of masks are used to fabricate a second interface B not shown when a switch is made to a second part from a second vendor entity party etc. It will be appreciated that the first part and the second part correspond to a same part such as DRAM for example but where the first part is provided by the first vendor and the second part is provided by the second vendor. For example the second set of masks comprises a first mask B a second mask B a third mask B and a fourth mask B . The first mask B the second mask B the third mask B and the fourth mask B are used to form a first set of features B a second set of features B a third set of features B and a fourth set of features B on the SOC respectively. It will be appreciated that the second set of masks is specific to the second vendor and that the first set of masks is specific to the first vendor.

In some embodiments a common template mask set comprises a first mask U a second mask U and a third mask U . The first mask U is configured to form the first set of features A and the first set of features B on the SOC. Similarly the second mask U is configured to form the second set of features A and the second set of features B on the SOC. The third mask U is configured to form the third set of features A and the third set of features B on the SOC. In other words a U mask is functionally equivalent to an A mask counterpart and a B mask counterpart at least in part. For example the first mask U is functionally equivalent to the first mask A and the first mask B . In some embodiments a common template comprises the respective features formed by masks and . In other words the common template comprises the first set of features A the second set of features A the third set of features A the first set of features B the second set of features B and the third set of features B. Because masks and of the common template mask set are configured to form features similar to the features associated with masks and the common template mask set is configured to fabricate a common template that is compatible with the first part from the first vendor and the second part from the second vendor. Because the first mask U the second mask U and the third mask U provide features functionally equivalent to the first mask A the first mask B the second mask A the second mask B the third mask A and the third mask B the common template mask set of reduces a number of masks associated with interface fabrication.

A under bump metallization UBM mask is used to fabricate one or more vendor specific features on the SOC. For example the fourth mask A is used to fabricate a first set of UBM features on the SOC when the first vendor is selected. Similarly the fourth mask B is used to fabricate a second set of UBM features on the SOC when the second vendor is selected.

In the example illustrated in the first set of polygon positions comprises a first subset of polygon positions and a second subset of polygon positions . The first subset of polygon positions comprises pattern A and pattern B. The second subset of polygon positions comprises pattern . The second set of polygon positions comprises a third subset of polygon positions and a fourth subset of polygon positions . The third subset of polygon positions comprises pattern A and pattern B. The fourth subset of polygon positions comprises pattern .

In some embodiments the first set of polygon positions is functionally equivalent to the second set of polygon positions . For example one or more signals associated with the first set of polygon positions or features ultimately fabricated at the first set of polygon positions are the same as one or more signals associated with the second set of polygon positions or features ultimately fabricated at the second set of polygon positions . Because the first set of polygon positions comprises patterns A and B of the first subset and the second set of polygon positions does not comprise patterns A and B the first subset is exclusive to the first set of polygon positions . Similarly because the second set of polygon positions comprises patterns A and B of the third subset and the first set of polygon positions does not comprise patterns A and B the third subset is exclusive to the second set of polygon positions . Within the first set of polygon positions and the second set of polygon positions however the second subset and the fourth subset do overlap. In an example the overlap occurs because polygons of the second subset and polygons of the fourth subset are positioned according to a commonality such as an industry standard for example. While a commonality is not limited to an industry standard an example industry standard is nevertheless a Joint Electron Devices Engineering Council JEDEC standard.

The common template mask of is generated based on the first set of polygon positions and the second set of polygon positions as illustrated by arrows pointing from and to . For example the common template mask comprises the first subset of the first set of polygon positions the third subset of the second set of polygon positions and the second subset of the first set of polygon positions or the fourth subset of the second set of polygon positions. Explained in another way the common template mask is generated based on a superset or a union of the first set of polygon positions and the second set of polygon positions . Because the second subset and the fourth subset share overlapping positions the second subset and the fourth subset are merged in the common template mask illustrated as . Since the common template mask combines the first set of polygon positions with the second set of polygon positions the common template mask facilitates formation of features that satisfy design requirements for both the first vendor and the second vendor. Because of this the common template formed by the common template mask is compatible with parts from both the first vendor and the second vendor. In this way the common template mask comprises a vendor neutral design with regard to the first vendor and the second vendor. It will be appreciated that separate masks associated with the first set of polygon positions such as the first mask A of and the second set of polygon positions such as the first mask B of are not required when using the common template mask . Accordingly a number of masks associated with fabricating a SOC design or an interface associated therewith is mitigated. Accordingly a number of manufacturing process variables associated with retooling for multiple masks is reduced as well.

In some embodiments one or more UBM masks are generated for the respective vendors. For example in some instances there are no common features among vendors and thus a vendor specific UBM mask is required for different vendors. Accordingly at a first under bump metallization UBM mask or a second UBM mask is generated based on the first set of polygon positions or the second set of polygon positions respectively. At a later stage a UBM mask is used to fabricate micro bumps on a SOC. The micro bumps enable the SOC to be electrically connected to a first part from a first vendor or a second part from a second vendor for example.

At a set of design rules is generated based on the common template mask set and provided to a third party such as a customer. The set of design rules enables an SOC designer to create a design that can be fabricated utilizing the common template mask set. The set of design rules are indicative of suggested protocol to be followed during SOC design in order for the common template mask set to be used in conjunction with the SOC. For example when a SOC or a SOC design in accordance with the set of design rules is received the common template masks of the common template mask set are used to fabricate a common template on the SOC. Because the common template mask set is being used the common template is compatible with the first part from the first vendor and the second part from the second vendor.

In some embodiments a first design rule defines a position associated with an input output I O connection for the SOC. For example an I O connection is a micro bump connection or a through silicon via TSV connection. A second design rule defines a number of I O connections at a top layer of the SOC. Explained in another way a design rule facilitates mating between a third party SOC and a common template mask of a common template mask set to fabricate a common template on the third party SOC. In other words because the design rule is indicative of a suggested connection between third party logic of the third party SOC and an interface such as a common template a SOC designed according to the design rule enables one to fabricate the interface on the SOC using the common template mask set rather than a custom mask set. It will be appreciated that some SOCs are fabricated active side up while other SOCs are fabricated active side down as will be described in and respectively. A third design rule associated with an active side up SOC design defines a position associated with a micro bump for the SOC. A fourth design rule associated with an active side down SOC design defines a position associated with a through silicon via TSV for the SOC.

Because the set of design rules is based on the common template mask set a third party following the set of design rules is not required to develop a custom set of masks to fabricate an interface on the SOC. Thus having a third party use design rules that are in conformance with a common template mask set allows the third party to generate a third party SOC design that can be satisfied by multiple vendors without requiring multiple mask sets specific to each vendor.

During an intermediate fabrication stage at a common template is fabricated on the third party SOC using the common template mask set. A third party SOC design often comprises a re distribution layer RDL on a backside or a non active region of the SOC. In some embodiments the common template is fabricated on a backside of the third party SOC using the common template mask set. The common template mask set comprises one or more common template masks. For example a common template mask of the common template mask set is configured to form a first set of features associated with a first part for a first vendor such as a first set of features A associated with the first mask A of and a second set of features associated with a second part for a second vendor such as the first set of features B associated with the first mask B of . Together the common template masks of the common template mask set form one or more sets of features associated with the first part from the first vendor and one or more sets of features associated with the second part from the second vendor. Effectively the common template masks of the common template mask set form a common template that comprises the respective features. As discussed with regard to a common template formed by a common template mask set comprising the common template mask is compatible with a part from the first vendor as well when the part is sourced from the second vendor. In this way the common template mask set is used to create a standard interface on the SOC. In other words the common template has a vendor neutral design.

At a under bump metallization UBM layer is fabricated on the SOC based on a vendor selection of a part such as DRAM for the SOC. For example the vendor selection comprises a first vendor selection or a second vendor selection. Up to this stage the SOC the common template fabricated on the SOC and associated fabrication processing such as common template masks used have been vendor independent. For example with reference to the common template mask set comprising the first mask U the second mask U and the third mask U are used to fabricate a common template comprising sets of features associated with the first mask A the second mask A the third mask A the first mask B the second mask B and the third mask B . The UBM layer however is vendor specific. In other words the fourth mask A is used to fabricate a first UBM layer when a part from the first vendor is selected while the fourth mask B is used to fabricate a second UBM layer when a part from a second vendor is selected. In some embodiments the UBM layer comprises micro bumps that are used to electrically connect the SOC to a part from a vendor. For example if the first vendor is selected the fourth mask A is used to fabricate a first UBM layer comprising one or more micro bumps that are configured to connect the SOC to the part from the first vendor. Similarly if the second vendor is selected the fourth mask B is used to fabricate a second UBM layer comprising one or more micro bumps that are configured to connect the SOC to the part from the second vendor. Explained in another way when a part from a vendor is integrated into a SOC design a UBM mask corresponding to the vendor is used to fabricate a UBM layer to connect the part from the vendor to the SOC.

In this way merely a UBM mask such as the fourth mask A or the fourth mask B is changed when a different vendor is selected to provide a part for a SOC. Because the common template mask set is compatible with parts from multiple vendors vendor selection is not required at an earlier stage such as fabrication of the common template. Since the common template mask set is adaptable to multiple vendors no mask redesign is necessary for the common template when the third party changes a vendor selection. Further if a third party switches vendors for a part merely the UBM mask is changed resulting in a reduced amount of re tooling or setup when the third party changes vendors.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein an implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising a plurality of zero s and one s as shown in in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of or at least some of exemplary method of . In another embodiment the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit .

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

According to some aspects a method for incorporating a common template into a system on chip SOC design is provided comprising receiving a first set of polygon positions from a first vendor. Additionally the method comprises receiving a second set of polygon positions from a second vendor. The method comprises generating a common template mask set based on the first set of polygon positions and the second set of polygon positions. The method comprises generating a first under bump metallization UBM mask for the first vendor or a second UBM mask for the second vendor based on the first set of polygon positions or the second set of polygon positions. The method comprises generating a set of design rules based on the common template mask set a first design rule defining a position associated with an input output I O connection for a system on chip SOC .

According to some aspects a method for incorporating a common template into a system on chip SOC design is provided comprising receiving a third party system on chip SOC design that is in accordance with a set of design rules based on a common template mask set. Additionally the method comprises fabricating a common template in conjunction with the third party SOC design based on the common template mask set.

According to some aspects common template mask for a system on chip SOC is provided comprising a first pattern a second pattern and a third pattern. For example the first pattern is associated with a first subset of a first set of polygon positions from a first vendor. For example the second pattern is associated with a first subset of a second set of polygon positions from a second vendor. For example the third pattern is associated with a second subset of the first set of polygon positions from the first vendor that overlaps with a second subset of the second set of polygon positions from the second vendor.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated based on this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Further unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first channel and a second channel generally correspond to channel A and channel B or two different or identical channels.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur based on a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

