---

title: Detection of nucleic acid lesions and adducts using nanopores
abstract: Methods, systems, and compounds for detecting modified nucleic acid bases are disclosed and described. The methods provide for detecting a nucleic acid lesion and can include directing a nucleic acid adduct into a channel, wherein the nucleic acid adduct includes a nucleic acid having a lesion and a current modulating compound coupled to the nucleic acid at the lesion (), and measuring a change in current through the channel in response to the current modulating compound to detect the lesion (). The method can optionally include forming the nucleic acid adduct. Also provided is a method for identifying the number of repeat nucleotides in at least a portion of a nucleic acid strand, a method of assigning a registration marker within a nucleic acid, and a method of obtaining sequence information from a nucleic acid comprising assigning a registration marker on the nucleic acid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429561&OS=09429561&RS=09429561
owner: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH RESEARCH FOUNDATION
number: 09429561
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150313
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 227 212 filed Sep. 7 2011 which is a continuation in part application of International Patent Application No. PCT US2011 027433 filed Mar. 7 2011 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 310 822 filed Mar. 5 2010. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 227 212 also claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 455 829 filed Oct. 27 2010. The disclosures of all of these applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties. Priority to each application is hereby claimed.

This invention was made with government support under R01 HG005095 awarded by the National Institutes of Health CHE0514612 awarded by the National Science Foundation HSHQDC 09 C 00091 awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and FA9550 06 C 0060 awarded by the USAF AFOSR Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted as a computer readable format ANSI Text format via EFS Web and is hereby incorporated by reference. The Sequence Listing was created on Dec. 22 2011 is named 026389 9035 US01 SeqList ST25.txt and is 4 784 bytes in size.

Exposure of DNA to carcinogens radiation oxidation agents or other agents can damage base pairs. Such damage can ultimately lead to cell apoptosis or tumor growth. Detection and diagnosis of such damage could potentially lead to treatments and or preventative measures. However methods for detecting such damage are limited. Conventional methods for detecting specific DNA damage include I DNA digestion followed by LC MS analysis and 2 gel electrophoretic analysis of primer extension studies. The first method is widely employed but requires substantial chemical and enzymatic manipulation that may introduce artifacts. In addition no sequence information is gained and the sensitivity is limited. In the second method the sequence of the area of the genome of interest must already be known and the sensitivity is also limited. A third method for assessing global DNA damage is the comet assay . Although widely employed to analyze generic DNA damage it does not provide any information on either the type or location of the lesions.

Methods systems and compounds for detecting modified nucleic acid bases is disclosed and described. In one aspect for example a method of detecting a nucleic acid lesion can include directing a strand of DNA or RNA containing a nucleic acid adduct into a channel the nucleic acid adduct including a nucleic acid having a lesion and a current modulating compound coupled to the nucleic acid at the lesion and measuring changes in current through the channel in response to the current modulating compound to detect the lesion. The current may be ionic or electronic current through the nanopore that is sensitive to the structure or presence of the modulating compound. In some cases the method can include forming the nucleic acid adduct. Additionally the method can optionally include coupling an immobilization compound to the nucleic acid adduct where the immobilization compound functions to preclude the translocation of the nucleic acid adduct completely through the channel. In some cases the current modulating compound itself is of sufficient size to preclude the complete translocation of the nucleic acid adduct through the channel. Alternatively directing the DNA strand with a nucleic acid adduct into the channel further includes translocating the nucleic acid adduct through the channel.

Various covalent and noncovalent chemical modifications of nucleic acids are contemplated. For example the current modulating compound can optionally be coupled to the nucleic acid at an abasic site associated with the lesion. In some cases the current modulating compound can be a primary amine Non limiting examples of current modulating compounds can include alkanes alkenes alkynes aryls sugars carbohydrates azides halides amines imines peptides crown ethers metal binding ligands transition metal complexes and the like including combinations thereof. Other non limiting examples of current modulating compounds include crown ethers e.g. 18 crown 6 and 15 crown 5 metal ion binding ligands e.g. EDTA and its derivatives metal binding polyamines e.g. cyclam cyclen and DOTA and peptides or peptide derivatives e.g. Sal XH peptides or related metal chelates that undergo interactions with metal ions present in an electrolyte such that conformational changes in the metal chelate lead to modulations in current level or translocation time through the ion channel.

In some cases the current modulating compound can be introduced into the nucleic acid via an 8 oxoG intermediate. In other cases the current modulating compound can be introduced into the nucleic acid adduct via an aldehyde intermediate. In yet other cases the current modulating compound can be introduced into the nucleic acid adduct via a platination intermediate.

A variety of lesions are contemplated that can be detected or used for the formation of a nucleic acid adduct and any such lesion is considered to be within the present scope. Non limiting examples include uracil in DNA 8 oxoG 1 N ethenoadenine and the like including combinations thereof. Other non limiting examples of reactions that result in lesions can include depurination deamination cyclobutane photodimer generation alkylation oxidation and the like including combinations thereof.

In another aspect a method of obtaining DNA or RNA sequence information from a nucleic acid is provided. Such a method includes reacting a current modulating compound with a nucleic acid to selectively couple the current modulating compound to a preselected nucleotide type where the current modulating compound and the nucleic acid thus form a nucleic acid adduct. Alternatively embodiments relate to merely providing a nucleic acid adduct. The method also includes directing the nucleic acid adduct into a channel and measuring changes in current through the channel in response to the current modulating compound to detect the preselected nucleotide type.

Various reaction chemistries capable of incorporating a current modulating compound into a nucleic acid are contemplated. Non limiting examples include oxidation reactions alkylation reactions platination reactions deamination reactions halogenations reactions depurination depyrimidination reactions and the like including combinations thereof. As one example reacting the current modulating compound with the nucleic acid includes bromination of cytosine. In another example reacting the current modulating compound with the nucleic acid includes reacting the nucleic acid with cis platin. In yet another example reacting the current modulating compound with the nucleic acid includes forming a lesion in the nucleic acid and coupling the current modulating compound to the lesion to form the nucleic acid adduct. In some cases the lesion is an abasic site. Furthermore in some cases the current modulating compound is a plurality of current modulating compounds coupled exclusively to nucleic acid bases of the preselected nucleic acid type.

In some cases measuring changes in current through the channel in response to the current modulating compound to detect the preselected nucleotide type can optionally include measuring multiple current modulating compounds and correlating the multiple current modulating compounds to a sequence of the nucleic acid. Additionally in some cases the multiple current modulating compounds are associated with adjacent nucleotide bases. Alternatively the multiple current modulating compounds are associated with adjacent nucleotide bases on different nucleic acid molecules having the same sequence.

Nucleic acid adducts are also provided. Such an adduct includes a nucleic acid having a damaged region and a current modulating compound coupled to the damaged region. In some embodiments a nucleic acid adduct comprises a modified nucleotide type wherein the modified nucleotide type comprises a current modulating compound. Non limiting examples of general categories of current modulating compounds include alkanes alkenes alkynes aryls sugars carbohydrates azides halides amines imines peptides crown ethers metal binding ligands transition metal complexes and the like including combinations thereof. Additionally in some cases the damaged region is an abasic site.

A system for detecting a current modulating compound is also provided. Such a system can include a membrane including a conical nanopore having an opening with a suspended lipid bilayer across the opening a pair of electrodes configured to register changes in electrical current across the opening and a nucleic acid adduct of a nucleic acid and a current modulating compound located within the nanopore. In some cases the suspended lipid bilayer includes a protein embedded therein to form a channel such that transport of the nucleic acid adduct across the channel is inhibited while transport of non adduct nucleic acid is not substantially inhibited.

A method of using current modulating compounds as registration markers is also provided. Such a method can include detecting a current modulation compound thus registering the identity and location of the current modulation compound and thus termed a registration marker. In embodiments the method further comprises using registration markers to measure or read at least a portion of a nucleic acid multiple times. In certain embodiments the multiple measurements of the nucleic acid can improve sequencing accuracy and or help to identify nucleotide repeats.

A method of identifying and determining the number of nucleotide repeats within a nucleic acid strand is provided. This method comprises coupling at least one current modulating compound to a nucleotide that is adjacent to the same type of nucleotide and measuring multiple nucleic acid strands of the same sequence. In embodiments the method further comprises determining the number of base repeats based on the multiple measurements.

Thus in an aspect the disclosure provides a method of obtaining sequence information from a nucleic acid comprising providing at least one nucleic acid adduct wherein the at least one nucleic acid adduct comprises a nucleotide type coupled with a current modulating compound directing the nucleic acid into a channel wherein the channel comprises an initial current in the absence of the nucleic acid measuring the current as the nucleic acid is in the channel detecting the current modulating compound in the channel registering the identity and location of the current modulating compound on the nucleic acid and assigning the current modulating compound as a first registration marker on the nucleic acid wherein the first registration marker provides an detectable reference point in the sequence of the nucleic acid.

In another aspect the disclosure provides a method of assigning a registration marker within a nucleic acid comprising providing at least one nucleic acid adduct wherein the at least one nucleic acid adduct comprises a nucleotide type coupled with a current modulating compound directing the nucleic acid into a channel wherein the channel comprises an initial current in the absence of the nucleic acid measuring the current as the nucleic acid is in the channel detecting the current modulating compound in the channel registering the identity and location of the current modulating compound on the nucleic acid and assigning the current modulating compound as a first registration marker on the nucleic acid.

In embodiments of the above two aspects the methods can further comprise a nucleic acid that includes at least a second nucleic acid adduct that comprises a second nucleotide type coupled with a second current modulating compound detecting the second current modulating compound in the channel registering the identity and location of the second current modulating compound on the nucleic acid and assigning the second current modulating compound as a second registration marker on the nucleic acid and wherein the second registration marker is detected while measuring at least a portion of the nucleic acid.

In yet another aspect the disclosure provides a method for identifying the number of repeat nucleotides in at least a portion of a nucleic acid strand comprising a providing at least one nucleic acid adduct in a first nucleic acid strand wherein the at least one nucleic acid adduct comprises a first nucleotide type coupled with a current modulating compound and wherein the first nucleotide type is adjacent to at least a second nucleotide type wherein the first and second nucleotide type is the same b directing the nucleic acid into a channel wherein the channel comprises an initial current in the absence of the nucleic acid c measuring the current as the nucleic acid translocates the channel d detecting the current modulating compound e repeating steps a d at least a second time with at least a second nucleic acid strand wherein the first and second nucleic acid strands comprise the same sequence and f determining the number of repeat nucleotides in the sequence of the first and second nucleic acid strand by combining data obtained from steps c and d .

There has thus been outlined rather broadly the more important features of the invention so that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood and so that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. Other features of the present invention will become clearer from the following detailed description of the invention taken with the accompanying drawings and claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention.

It will be understood that the above figures are merely for illustrative purposes in furthering an understanding of the invention. Further the figures are not drawn to scale thus dimensions particle sizes and other aspects may and generally are exaggerated to make illustrations thereof clearer. Therefore departure can be made from the specific dimensions and aspects shown in the figures in order to produce the heat spreaders of the present invention.

While these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that various changes to the invention may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the present invention is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is presented for purposes of illustration only and not limitation to describe the features and characteristics of the present invention to set forth the best mode of operation of the invention and to sufficiently enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims.

The singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a strand includes reference to one or more of such materials and reference to subjecting refers to one or more such steps.

As used herein a current modulating compound refers to any compound or molecule that when coupled to a nucleic acid modulates current flow through a channel when the current modulating compound is present in the channel as compared to the same nucleic acid without the current modulating compound. Such modulation can include changes in current flow e.g. current decrease or increase as well as changes in the duration of current variation due to the current modulating compound translocating into or through the channel. Additionally current modulating compound can refer to the compound that is reacted with the nucleic acid to form the adduct as well as to the resulting nucleic acid modification following incorporation into the nucleic acid.

As used herein nucleotide type refers to a specific moiety of nucleotide including A C T G and U as well as naturally occurring modified nucleotide bases such as 5 methyl C and modified nucleotide bases resulting from DNA damage processes oxidation alkylation deamination formation of abasic sites and the like or treatment of DNA or RNA with modifying agents including drugs such as for example agents for platination alkylation oxidation or the like. In RNA nucleotide type can additionally refer to any of the common modifications such as those found in tRNAs including methylated base and sugar moieties. Additionally nucleotide type can also refer to multiple bases in a sequence such as G G G G G G A C T A T A C C and the like.

As used herein with respect to an identified property or circumstance substantially refers to a degree of deviation that is sufficiently small so as to not measurably detract from the identified property or circumstance. The exact degree of deviation allowable may in some cases depend on the specific context.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

Concentrations amounts and other numerical data may be presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a numerical range of about 1 to about 4.5 should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits of 1 to about 4.5 but also to include individual numerals such as 2 3 4 and sub ranges such as 1 to 3 2 to 4 etc. The same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value such as less than about 4.5 which should be interpreted to include all of the above recited values and ranges. Further such an interpretation should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristic being described.

Any steps recited in any method or process claims may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented in the claims. Means plus function or step plus function limitations will only be employed where for a specific claim limitation all of the following conditions are present in that limitation a means for or step for is expressly recited and b a corresponding function is expressly recited. The structure material or acts that support the means plus function are expressly recited in the description herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined solely by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the descriptions and examples given herein.

Techniques for detecting nucleic acid modifications using nanopore technology are provided. Such technology can be implemented for a variety of investigational uses including without limitation detecting damage or lesions in nucleic acids sequencing nucleic acids epigenetics obtaining general sequence information from a nucleic acid e.g. using the current modulating compounds as registration markers and determining the number of base repeats as described herein and the like. It should be noted that while various discussion points are made below regarding one or more of such uses any disclosure described in relation to a given use that can be applied to any other use would also be considered to be within the present scope. For example discussions relating to DNA lesion analysis should be taken as also relating to other uses where applicable such as sequence analysis. Similarly discussions directed to a particular nucleic acid adduct such as for example an adduct associated with a DNA lesion should be applied to nucleic acid sequencing where applicable.

Regarding nucleic acid damage a method for detecting nucleic acid lesions through the formation of nucleic acid adducts that modulate current flow through a nanopore as the adduct is translocating into or through the pore is disclosed and described. The method is based on the use of a nanopore through which single stranded and double stranded nucleic acids and nucleic acid adducts can be translocated in an applied electric field. A nucleic acid can be comprised of DNA and RNA molecules including DNA and RNA monomers or polymers that are single stranded or double stranded and are comprised of at least one nucleotide type. The rate of translocation depends in part on the size of the nucleic acid adduct passing through the nanopore. In certain embodiments the nanopore is less than 1 000 nm in diameter at the smallest contriction point e.g. less than 1 000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 nm . Covalent adducts are made to nucleic acid lesions such as 8 oxoguanosine a common biomarker of oxidative damage in DNA. Examples of the molecules adducted are primary amines including benzyl amine lysine arginine spermine spermidine and an amine derivative of cyclodextrin. When the adduct is sufficiently large e.g. cyclodextrin the nanopore is completely blocked allowing detection and identification of the position of the lesion. Smaller adducts modulate the ion flow as DNA translocates through the nanopore also allowing detection and identification of the position of the lesion. This method allows analysis of human tissue samples to evaluate oxidative stress and other forms of damage in an extremely sensitive method. It can aid researchers interested in oxidative stress mutagenesis and disease and in medical diagnostics.

Genomic and mitochondrial DNA bases undergo continuous modifications as a result of both natural processes that introduce epigenetic markers 5 methylC as well as exposure to DNA damaging agents through oxidation and alkylation reactions from endogenous sources or toxicants. DNA sequencing techniques may not directly detect DNA damage because the sequencing takes place on PCR amplified strands that perforce contain only the 4 canonical bases A C T and G. Mutations and SNPs single nucleotide polymorphisms can be detected by sequencing and many of these are the ultimate outcome of DNA damage. However mutations themselves do not provide much information about the chemical identity of the original damage. Understanding the molecular origins of DNA mutations can be a key to preventative medicine for cancer toxicology and age related disorders. Approaches for the detection of nucleotide modifications such as DNA base modifications e.g. oxidation alkylation excision and the like by application of chemical and enzymatic methods to convert the modified base to an adduct that yields a detectable signal when individual nucleic acid strands translocate through a membrane embedded ion channel are provided. In addition the present scope also includes nucleic acid modifications purposefully introduced into the nucleic acid for the purposes of sequencing and or sequence analysis or other qualitative investigation of sequence information.

In the case of DNA for example DNA strands from each cell are estimated to undergo tens of thousands of base modification reactions per day the vast majority of which are corrected by DNA repair enzymes before replication or transcription occurs. Under conditions of stress DNA bases can be damaged beyond the capability of the repair system leading to cell death apoptosis or worse to immortalization and cancer as well as aging neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases. It is possible that multiple damage occurrences in the same cell are the most efficacious in leading to disease states however there appear to be no methods in place for single molecule analysis of DNA damage.

A variety of common damaging chemistries occur with the DNA bases a few of which are shown in and in the description that follows. Depurination 12 is a damaging reaction that results in the loss of an adenine or guanine base thus resulting in an abasic site e.g. AP apurinic or apyrimidinic on the DNA strand. Depurination is mediated by acidic conditions or certain base alkylating agents or platination with compounds such as cis platin.

The hydrolytic conversion of an exocyclic amino group to a keto group or deamination 14 occurs in enzyme catalyzed RNA editing and also represents a naturally occurring form of DNA damage that can be mutagenic. In the case of C the deamination of C is a reaction that generates U which would code as a T if unrepaired. Deamination is catalyzed not only by acidic conditions but also by exposure to nitrosating agents such as nitrosamines.

Cyclobutane photodimers 16 such as T T shown in are formed upon exposure to UV light and are primary lesions leading to skin cancers. Their formation is variable depending on the amount of light exposure and the wavelength of light.

Alkylation 18 reactions e.g. methylation of bases occurs when DNA undergoes epigenetic marking as in the conversion of C to 5 MeC by an enzyme catalyzed reaction that utilizes S adenosylmethionine SAM . Mismethylation is one example of DNA damage see for G methylation at N7 . Another major source of alkylation is exposure to electrophilic agents such as aldehydes generated from lipid peroxidation environmental alkylating agents vinyl chloride acrylates etc. or treatment with anticancer agents such as mitomycin or chlorambucil. Cis platin also generates a G N7 adduct or cross link and though not technically an alkylating agent this antitumor drug bears some similarity to DNA alkylating agents.

Oxidative damage 20 to DNA bases e.g. G 8 oxoG may be a leading cause of age related disorders including cancer and may also play a role in metabolic disorders. Oxidative damage frequently occurs to guanine often leading to the formation of 8 oxoG which is a possible biomarker of oxidative stress in the cell. Levels of 8 oxoG are elevated during chronic infection high metabolic stress abnormal utilization of redox active metals such as Fe and Cu and after reperfusion injury. A suite of DNA repair enzymes seek out 8 oxoG and related lesions to correct this damage before it leads to mutation. Lack of repair of 8 oxoG leads to G to T mutations a single G to T mutation in codon 12 of the HRAS gene for example may be a factor in the development of bladder cancer.

DNA base damage is detected and corrected in the cell via multiple mechanisms one pertinent to the above examples being base excision repair BER . In this mechanism a BER glycosylase first scans the duplex for non canonical bases and cleaves the glycosidic bond thus generating an abasic AP site. As is shown in BER enzymes cleave the glycosidic bond to create an AP site. Some BER enzymes also have lyase or lyase activity and create a strand break others rely on a downstream enzyme such as AP endonuclease to cleave out the remaining ribose unit before other enzymes resynthesize the strand using the undamaged base opposite as a template. In addition to natural processes enzymes such as BER can be used to for the generation of AP sites in DNA for the purpose of creating a nucleic acid adduct. For example DNA damage can be introduced by any of a variety of damaging mechanisms then enzymatically converted to an AP site for further chemical processing into an adduct.

As has been described AP sites can be utilized to form nucleic acid adducts. This includes nucleic acids containing AP sites generated in vivo and nucleic acids containing AP sites generated in vitro. DNA AP tautomerizes between ring closed form and ring open aldehyde form the existence of which allows AP to be further functionalized. While any technique for forming an adduct is considered to be within the present scope in one aspect an AP site can be functionalized to create an adduct by coupling a current modulating compound at the aldehyde site as is shown in . As is more fully described below a current modulating compound can be introduced at the aldehyde site to create a nucleic acid adduct. It should be noted that various chemistries can be used to incorporate a current modulating compound at an AP site of a nucleic acid and as such any chemistry that allows such incorporation via an AP site is considered to be within the present scope.

Accordingly in one aspect a method of detecting a nucleic acid lesion is provided as is shown in . Such a method includes directing a nucleic acid adduct into a channel the nucleic acid adduct including a nucleic acid having a lesion and a current modulating compound coupled to the nucleic acid at the lesion and measuring changes in current through the channel in response to the current modulating compound to detect the lesion . In one aspect the method can include forming the nucleic acid adduct.

Various channels are contemplated into which a nucleic acid adduct can be directed in order to detect current changes associated with the adduct. Generally any nanopore that is capable of such current detection is considered to be within the present scope. In one aspect the channel can be a transmembrane protein channel. Non limiting examples of such protein channels include hemolysin HL channels the porin MspA of chemical modifications of these proteins and mutant forms of the proteins and the like. In one specific aspect the channel is HL. In another aspect the channel can be a manufactured nanopore in a suitable substrate or a solid state nanopore in a suitable membrane for recording current such as glass quartz sapphire SiO SiN and diamond. It should be noted that the following discussion directed to HL channels should be applied to other channels where applicable. Accordingly one general non limiting channel set up would include the channel and a membrane or other support with electrically insulating properties to ensure that current flows at least predominantly through the channel. By placing an electrode on either side of the membrane current delivered between the electrodes will flow through the channel. The standing open current reading of the channel can be noted and any change in this current would likely be due to some current impedance within the channel. Thus directing a nucleic acid through the channel will cause a decrease in current flow through the channel as compared to the open current reading. Adducts having different characteristics such as current modulating compound sizes and or polarities will block current to a greater or lesser extent and thus provide a distinct current signature. An additional method for detecting the adduct is to measure a current e.g. a capacitive electrochemical or tunneling current transverse to the adducted stranded within the channel or nanopore.

The translocation of single stranded DNA and RNA through a channel such as for example an HL channel can be used to identify nucleic acid lesions and other damage as well as providing high speed and low cost methods of sequencing polynucleotides via the exploitation of ion channel recordings. The HL pore for example comprises a vestibule 2.5 nm diameter cavity and a stem region 1.4 nm that is sufficiently large to allow single stranded DNA ss DNA to pass through the interior of the pore. Double stranded DNA ds DNA with a diameter of 2.2 nm can enter the vestibule but cannot pass through the more narrow stem region. The electrophoretically driven translocation of ss DNA through a solitary wild type WT or modified HL channel reconstituted in an electrically insulating lipid bilayer is readily detected using ion channel recording methods. As ss DNA translocates through the pore the ion channel current decreases to about 90 of the open channel value. Additionally the duration of the translocation event is a measure of the length of the ss DNA molecule although thermal diffusion at room temperature requires averaging of numerous translocation events to obtain precise length values. Ideally the current vs. time electrical trace recorded during the translocation of an individual ss DNA molecule exhibits four distinct levels each level corresponding to one of the four bases adenine A thymine T guanine G and cytosine C . In principle as the DNA molecule translocates the channel the electrical readout of the four current levels provides the nucleotide sequence.

One limitation that presents itself is that available electronics are insufficiently sensitive to reliably capture the electronic signature of each base. This limitation is largely associated with the rapid translocation rate of DNA and RNA through WT HL 1 20 s per base at typical bias voltages 100 mV which requires MHz bandwidth and data acquisition coupled with the very small variations in channel current for the different nucleotides passing through the constriction zone of HL. Although measurable the difference in ion current for different DNA homopolymers is only on the order of a few pA. Larger differences in the signal identifying the nucleotide can be achieved by modifying the bases with bulky adducts Immobilization of DNA within the channel using a terminal hairpin or biotin streptavidin complex to prevent passage of the DNA through the nanopore allows time averaging of the current resulting in sharply defined current distributions for each nucleotide. Reducing the translocation velocity of DNA through the nanopore in order to obtain increased signal to noise either by reducing the temperature or increasing the solution viscosity has been demonstrated but these methods also tend to reduce the channel conductance thus offsetting the advantage of measuring the current for each nucleotide over a longer time. An alternative solution to improving base recognition is to use a DNA polymerase to ratchet ss DNA one base at a time through the channel. The electrophoretic capture of short hairpin DNA molecules in the HL lumen and subsequent identification of the terminal bases has also been demonstrated although this does not provide sequence information.

As has been described other biological and solid state channels can be utilized that have internal geometries and dimensions that are more sensitive to the nucleotide base structure. For instance the porin MspA of has a short and narrow channel constriction that may be used for DNA sequencing.

It should be noted that the present disclosure includes situations whereby the nucleic acid adduct blocks the channel and is prevented from translocating and situations whereby the nucleic acid adduct is translocated through the channel to the other side of the membrane. As such in one aspect the method can further include coupling an immobilization compound to the nucleic acid adduct where the immobilization compound functions to preclude translocation of the nucleic acid adduct completely through the channel. In another aspect directing the nucleic acid adduct into the channel further includes translocating the nucleic acid adduct through the channel. The present method also includes immobilization of DNA within the channel using an immobilization compound such as for example a terminal hairpin or biotin streptavidin complex to prevent passage of the DNA through the nanopore allowing detection of adducted nucleotides.

In addition high frequency noise in single channel electrical measurements is associated with the combined inherent noise of the ion channel thermal diffusion and the capacitance of the bilayer support structure. In one aspect novel support structures can be used to reduce such noise. In one specific aspect for example a membrane made of glass and or fused quartz can be used. In on non limiting example such a membrane can have a 400 nm radius conical shaped nanopore as a support structures for lipid bilayers and ion channel recordings. Details regarding such membranes and manufacture thereof can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 743 536 filed on May 2 2007 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 852 061 filed Sep. 7 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 827 503 filed Jun. 30 2010 which are each incorporated herein by reference. The small area of the bilayer in which the protein ion channel is embedded and use of such fused quartz membranes reduces the bilayer support capacitance to very small values thus allowing increased acquisition rates. It should be noted that while membranes of particular materials and having conical shaped nanopores are disclosed any suitable membrane and or nanopore structure or material that can be used to support the channel is considered to be within the present scope.

Additionally alternating current AC phase sensitive detection can be used to measure the conductance of the ion channel while simultaneously applying a DC bias to electrostatically control the binding affinity and kinetics of charged molecules. A low amplitude AC signal 10 mV rms allows the protein DNA interaction to be measured in the absence of large DC fields thereby reducing the effects of electroosmosis electrophoresis and protein deformation.

Returning to DNA damage the electron rich DNA bases are sensitive to oxidation and guanine G with the lowest redox potential 1.3 V. vs. NHE of the four bases is particularly so. The most common product of G oxidation is 8 oxoG a lesion that leads to G to T transversion mutations if left unrepaired. Interestingly 8 oxoG 0.7 V. vs. NHE has a dramatically lower redox potential than G and it is therefore a hot spot for further oxidation. Products of 8 oxoG oxidation in DNA include the hydantoins Sp spiroiminodihydantoin and Gh guanidinohydantoin . shows the reaction pathway for further oxidation of 8 oxoG to yield stable lesions Gh in ds DNA and Sp in ssDNA and nucleosides. Sp and Gh are ubiquitous products of guanine oxidation from many types of reactive oxygen species as studied in an in vitro setting.

The large difference in redox potential between G and 8 oxoG allows a sensitive method for selectively oxidizing only 8 oxoG in a DNA strand containing various sequences even sequences otherwise susceptible to oxidation such as 5 GGG 3 . The mild one electron oxidants NaIrClor KFe CN are suitable for this purpose. Additionally a 2 e oxidized form of 8 oxoG OGin is initially formed and then trapped by a nucleophile such as HO. In the presence of better nucleophiles such as primary amines covalent adducts are formed to that species . For example oxidation of an 8 oxoG containing oligomer in the presence of 50 M spermine generates a covalent adduct of spermine to the oligomer. Furthermore many DNA binding proteins typically rich in lysine residues form covalent cross links to 8 oxoG containing DNA.

The inventors have developed mild conditions for converting 8 oxoG a very common but structurally subtle base lesion to an adduct whose size shape and functionality depend on the primary amine or other current modulating compound that is appended. Thus virtually any primary amine can be incorporated into a nucleic acid via and 8 oxoG intermediate. While any primary amine is contemplated for incorporation into nucleic acid adducts specific non limiting examples include benzyl amine lysine arginine spermine spermidine an amine derivative of cyclodextrin and the like including combinations thereof. Further details regarding specific adduct chemistry is described below.

Various lesions can be useful in the formation of nucleic acid adducts that are detectable via channel recordings including lesions such as uracil in DNA 8 oxoG and 1 N ethenoadenosine. It should be noted that various strategies and chemistries are contemplated for adduct formation and any such chemistry is considered to be within the present scope. Additionally the present scope includes any nucleic acid adduct generated from a nucleic acid lesion that results in a measurable change in the rate of translocation of the adduct through the channel or a change in current as the adduct is within the constricted portion of the channel compared to the nucleic acid without the adduct.

The presence of uracil in DNA constitutes a mutation often derived from a hydrolytic deamination reaction of C uracil U codes like T. Because of the frequency of its occurrence in the genome there exists a highly evolved protein Uracil DNA Glycosylase UDG in all organisms to excise U. UDG operates on U in either dsDNA or ssDNA and cleanly hydrolyzes the glycosidic bond to produce an abasic AP site. AP sites can be somewhat unstable and thus they can undergo elimination under basic conditions leading to strand scission. However when an alkoxyamine is present in solution during generation of AP sites the sugar aldehyde can be efficiently trapped leading to a stable oxime ether. The biotinylated alkoxyamine Aldehyde Reactive Probe ARP can be used to detect AP sites in DNA. While the ARP adduct can be used for ion channel measurements the retardation in translocation rate can be slight and the change in current level during translocation is relatively minor. This is likely due to the flexibility of the biotin attachment. Accordingly in various aspects nucleic acid adducts can be made that incorporate current modulating compounds having a size and rigidity that allows greater discrimination in the channel recordings. In one aspect for example propargyloxyamine can be converted via click chemistry with organic azides to a suite of alkoxyamines for conjugation to the abasic site. Two non limiting examples are shown in utilizing azidosugars to form the adduct. Such compounds retain the alkoxyamine group for functionalization of the AP site while introducing a large and relatively rigid adduct. One additional advantage of using carbohydrates for adduction is that they will retain water solubility.

In another aspect various chemistries from functionalization of AP sites can also be applied to detection of 8 oxoG with certain changes. For example the conditions for mild oxidation of 8 oxoG see can be adjusted such that the adduct formation will be conducted with a primary amine instead of an alkoxyamine as has been discussed above. Primary amines can couple to 8 oxoG under mild oxidation conditions. Non limiting examples of some related primary amines that can be used for adduct formation are shown in . It should be noted that any primary amine capable of being introduced into a nucleic acid adduct and that is detectable in channel recordings is considered to be within the present scope. Further adducts generated from 8 oxoG are shown in .

Another useful DNA base lesion is the alkylated base 1 N ethenoadenine A . A is a product of vinyl chloride toxicity as well as being a member of a broader class of alkylated bases formed by condensation of lipid peroxidation products such as malondialdehyde with DNA bases. A is conveniently synthesized by the reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with adenosine as is shown in where the formation of A is shown by the condensation of A with vinyl chloride or haloacetaldehyde. Two types of repair enzymes remove this damage from DNA AlkA and AlkB and they do so by very different mechanisms. AlkA operates on a broad class of alkylated adenosines and is a simple glycosylase that removes the damaged base thus generating an abasic site. In this sense AlkA functions with A very much like UDG acts on U with the difference that AlkA prefers double stranded substrates. As such dsDNA substrates need to be denatured before they can pass through a nanopore such as HL. A can also be directly repaired from single stranded DNA using the enzyme AlkB.

Additionally in some aspects nanopores large enough to translocate ds DNA can be used in the manner described for ss DNA in order to detect ds DNA adducts via the translocation dependent modulation of electrical current. As such ds DNA adducts and methods of their detection are considered to be within the present scope.

Thus numerous adducts generated from AP sites are contemplated and the present scope includes any current modulating compound coupled to a nucleic acid at an abasic site including those associated with lesions. DNA AP tautomerizes between ring closed form and ring open aldehyde form the existence of which allows AP to be further functionalized via coupling with amines to form Schiff bases followed by reduction to produce stable amine adducts Ab NR by NaCNBH. Non limiting examples of such adducts are shown in where Taurine Trn glucosamine GlcN Arg His RH Gly Pro Arg Pro amide GPRP streptomycin STM and crown ethers are attached to DNA AP to produce adducts AP NR via reductive amination. Thus the electrical signature of AP in the adduct can be dramatically changed and removed beyond the range of normal DNA bases in the wild type HL in both homopolymer sequences and heterosequences which provides benefits for lesion recognition and sequencing development. This modification method can also be extended to DNA analysis using other proteins and solid state nanopores. The single molecule lesion recognition by protein ion channel can to a great extent advance the understanding of disease origins and diagnostics.

In addition to those specific examples described the current modulating compounds can vary depending on the desired outcome of the recording procedure and the particular chemistry involved. General non limiting examples of current modulating compounds include alkanes alkenes alkynes aryls sugars carbohydrates azides halides amines imines peptides crown ethers metal binding ligands transition metal complexes and the like including combinations thereof.

As has been described techniques for use in obtaining sequence information from a nucleic acid are also provided. In such cases a nucleic acid can have current modulating compounds associated with certain bases or base sequences to form a nucleic acid adduct that can allow detection via channel recording methodologies. In one aspect as is shown in a method of obtaining sequence information from a nucleic acid can include reacting a current modulating compound with a nucleic acid to selectively couple the current modulating compound to a preselected nucleotide type where the current modulating compound and the nucleic acid thus form a nucleic acid adduct . The method can also include directing the nucleic acid adduct into a channel and measuring changes in current through the channel in response to the current modulating compound to detect the preselected nucleotide type . It should be noted that many of the chemistries disclosed that relate to nucleic acid damage can be utilized to associate current modulating compounds with distinct nucleotide base types or sequences and as such can be useful in obtaining sequence information.

By modifying a specific nucleotide base type of a given nucleic acid qualitative sequence information of the nucleic acid sequence can be determined. Additionally such qualitative evaluation can extend to related inquiries such as epigenetics. Thus any qualitative evaluation can be made in which specific modifications can be made to the nucleic acid to allow the introduction of a current modulating compound to thus form a nucleic acid adduct. For example a halogenation reaction such as the bromination of cytosine under mild conditions e.g. KBr KHSO results in a reaction that is highly selective for C over T G and A. As is shown in bromination of cytosine can be used to selectively modify at least a portion of the cytosine bases on a nucleic acid strand. These modified cytosines can be detected via channel recording methods and thus are useful for determining sequence information. also shows a general reaction that can utilized Br or I for such modifications. It should also be noted that any halide capable of being incorporated and discriminated using channel recording methods is considered to be within the present scope.

As another example cis platin can be reacted with a nucleic acid to introduce nucleotide base modifications. Cis platin binds preferentially to adjacent guanines via kinetically stable coordination bonds to N7 of guanine as is shown in . Thus the cis platin is a current modulating compound that can be detected via channel measurements. The amine ligands can also be varied to larger groups such as for example 1 2 cyclohexanediamine in order to further modulate the channel signal. Additionally several cis platin analogs can be utilized that are commercially available.

It is also disclosed that AP sites or other lesions can be formed at nucleotide bases within the nucleic acid and that such sites can be utilized as has been described above in order to selectively modify a preselected base type. Thus any technique for forming a lesion or AP site selectively in a nucleic acid is considered to be within the present scope. In this case a specific nucleotide base type such as for example guanosine can be oxidized to form 8 oxoG and current modulating compounds can be associated with these sites as has been described. In this case one or more or even all of the guanosines in the nucleic acid can be oxidized to 8 oxoG. Generally one or more of a specific base type can be modified by any known chemistry to incorporate a current modulating compound that allows sequence discrimination. It should be noted that specific base type also extends to epigenetic and other base modifications such as 5 methyl C for example.

Thus by modifying a nucleic acid to include current modulating compounds such compounds can be detected thereby allowing correlation between channel recordings and nucleic acid sequence information. This process can allow the rapid sequencing of nucleic acids as well as more focused investigation of specific sequences. For example in one aspect such modifications allow the detection of adjacent nucleotide bases of the same nucleotide type. Such a determination can be made for adjacent nucleotide bases on the same strand provided the multiple current modulating compounds can be discriminated via the channel recordings. Additionally such a determination can be made for adjacent nucleotide bases where each base of the pair is modified on a different nucleic acid strand of the same sequence. By pooling the channel recording data the adjacent nature of these bases can be determined. Also base repeats greater than two can be investigated as well through similar methodology by comparing the base signatures across nucleic acid strands.

Additionally nucleic acid adducts are also provided. In one aspect for example a nucleic acid adduct can include a nucleic acid having a damaged region and a current modulating compound coupled to the damaged region. Such adducts can be formed by a variety of chemistries including those described herein. The current modulating compounds that can be coupled to the damaged region include without limitation alkanes alkenes alkynes aryls sugars carbohydrates azides halides amines imines peptides crown ethers metal binding ligands transition metal complexes and the like including combinations thereof. In some cases the damaged region is an AP site.

Also a system for detecting a current modulating compound is provided. Such a system can include a nanoporous membrane including a conical nanopore having an opening with a suspended lipid bilayer across the opening a pair of electrodes configured to register changes in electrical current across the opening and a nucleic acid adduct of a nucleic acid and a current modulating compound located within the nanopore. Such a system can additionally include a protein embedded in the lipid bilayer to form a channel such that transport of the nucleic acid adduct across the channel is inhibited while transport of non adduct nucleic acid is not substantially inhibited as has been described herein.

In an aspect the disclosure provides a method of obtaining sequence information from a nucleic acid comprising providing at least one nucleic acid adduct wherein the at least one nucleic acid adduct comprises a nucleotide type coupled with a current modulating compound directing the nucleic acid into a channel wherein the channel comprises an initial current in the absence of the nucleic acid measuring the current as the nucleic acid is in the channel detecting the current modulating compound in the channel registering the identity and location of the current modulating compound on the nucleic acid and assigning the current modulating compound as a first registration marker on the nucleic acid wherein the first registration marker provides an detectable reference point in the sequence of the nucleic acid.

In another aspect the disclosure provides a method of assigning a registration marker within a nucleic acid comprising providing at least one nucleic acid adduct wherein the at least one nucleic acid adduct comprises a nucleotide type coupled with a current modulating compound directing the nucleic acid into a channel wherein the channel comprises an initial current in the absence of the nucleic acid measuring the current as the nucleic acid is in the channel detecting the current modulating compound in the channel registering the identity and location of the current modulating compound on the nucleic acid and assigning the current modulating compound as a first registration marker on the nucleic acid.

In embodiments of the above two aspects which are described in more detail below the methods can further comprise a nucleic acid that includes at least a second nucleic acid adduct that comprises a second nucleotide type coupled with a second current modulating compound detecting the second current modulating compound in the channel registering the identity and location of the second current modulating compound on the nucleic acid and assigning the second current modulating compound as a second registration marker on the nucleic acid and wherein the second registration marker is detected while measuring at least a portion of the nucleic acid.

In yet another aspect the disclosure provides a method for identifying the number of repeat nucleotides in at least a portion of a nucleic acid strand comprising a providing at least one nucleic acid adduct in a first nucleic acid strand wherein the at least one nucleic acid adduct comprises a first nucleotide type coupled with a current modulating compound and wherein the first nucleotide type is adjacent to at least a second nucleotide type wherein the first and second nucleotide type is the same b directing the nucleic acid into a channel wherein the channel comprises an initial current in the absence of the nucleic acid c measuring the current as the nucleic acid translocates the channel d detecting the current modulating compound e repeating steps a d at least a second time with at least a second nucleic acid strand wherein the first and second nucleic acid strands comprise the same sequence and f determining the number of repeat nucleotides in the sequence of the first and second nucleic acid strand by combining data obtained from steps c and d .

Thus the above aspects provide methods of using a current modulating compound coupled to a nucleic acid as a registration marker. As used herein the term coupled relates to any type of interaction or modification e.g. covalent bond ionic bond hydrogen bonding hydrophobic interaction that allows for the formation of a nucleic acid adduct through the association of a nucleotide type and at least one current modulating compound such as for example under conditions of the assays and methods described herein. In certain embodiments at least one current modulating compound is coupled to at least one nucleotide on the nucleic acid strand. In certain embodiments a voltage bias is applied directing the nucleic acid into a channel comprising a nanopore. In certain embodiments the at least one current modulating compound is detected as the nucleic acid is within the nanopore and provides a registered known and identified point on the nucleic acid. Thus in these methods the current modulating compound can be termed a registration marker. In certain embodiments the nucleic acid translocates the channel and or nanopore. In certain embodiments the nucleic acid is immobilized within the channel and or nanopore.

In certain embodiments the nucleic acid comprises one registration marker. In certain embodiments the nucleic acid contains two or more registration markers and optionally a number of registration markers up to the total number of nucleotides in any nucleic acid under analysis e.g. 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 1000 10 000 100 000 1 000 000 1 000 000 000 or more registration markers . In certain embodiments a percentage of the nucleotides relative to the total number of nucleotides in the entire nucleic acid sequence of interest are associated with the registration markers. In some embodiments the percentage is between 0.01 and 100 e.g. 0.01 0.1 0.5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 . In certain embodiments a low percentage of the nucleotides relative to the total number of nucleotides in the entire nucleic acid sequence of interest are associated with the registration markers. In some embodiments the low percentage is less than 20 e.g. less than 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 0.1 0.01 . For example in some embodiments it may be advantageous to incorporate a low percentage of nucleotides associated with registration markers so that longer spans of sequence located between markers can be read multiple times. In certain embodiments the registration markers are in random positions along the nucleic acid. In certain embodiments the registration markers are in different places along two or more nucleic acid strands within the same sequence. Merely to provide an illustrative embodiment consider a single stranded DNA having a sequence of 5 polyAATCGCCGTTT 3 SEQ ID NO 12 where the first A is the noted as nucleotide 1 and the last T is noted as nucleotide 11. Embodiments can provide a nucleic acid comprising the current modulating compound located at nucleotide 4 for example which is a C base and on a second nucleic acid strand of the same sequence the nucleic acid comprising the current modulating compound could be located at nucleotide 6 which is also a C base but further along in the sequence .

In certain embodiments the two or more registration markers comprise the same current modulating compound such as for example a nucleic acid comprising a single stranded DNA wherein the same current modulating compound is coupled to two different guanine nucleotides in the DNA. In certain embodiments the two or more registration markers comprise different current modulating compounds such as for example a nucleic acid comprising a single stranded DNA wherein one type of current modulating compound is coupled to a guanine nucleotide and a different type of current modulating compound is coupled to a cytosine nucleotide. In certain embodiments the two or more registration markers can comprise the same type and different types of current modulating compounds such as for example a nucleic acid comprising a single stranded DNA and two or more current modulating compounds of one type are coupled to two or more guanine nucleotides and two or more current modulating compounds of a different type are coupled to two or more cytosine nucleotides. In certain embodiments the same type of current modulating compound is associated with one nucleotide type. In certain embodiments the same type of current modulating compound is associated with more than one nucleotide type.

In certain embodiments the use of the registration marker is to provide a known location or point on the nucleic acid that can be used to aid with data analysis. In certain embodiments data analysis is performed to determine the sequence of at least a portion of the nucleic acid. In certain embodiments a change to the applied bias is made once the registration marker is detected. In some embodiments the change to the voltage bias is selected from the non limiting group including reversing increasing decreasing removing the voltage bias or any combinations thereof.

In certain embodiments the voltage bias can be modified in order to change the motion of the nucleic acid. In certain embodiments the change in voltage bias can reverse the original direction of motion or slow or increase the rate of motion in the original direction or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the change in voltage bias and the change in motion of the nucleic acid allow at least a portion of the nucleic acid to be measured or read two or more times. In certain embodiments the voltage bias is reversed and the motion of the nucleic acid is reversed. In certain embodiments the reversal of the direction of motion of the nucleic acid enables at least potions of the nucleic acid to be read or measured at least a second time and optionally a plurality of times. In certain embodiments the method comprises a second registration marker that is detected after the motion of the nucleic acid is changed. In certain embodiments the voltage bias is modified again to change the motion of the nucleic acid. In certain embodiments the voltage bias is reversed when the first registration maker is detected and again reversed when the second registration marker is detected. Such embodiments can provide multiple measurements of the same section of sequence of the nucleic acid through flossing or the repeated reversal in direction of the nucleic acid in the nanopore. In such embodiments the term flossing means that the nucleic acid is moved or flossed back and forth to allow for multiple readings of the same portion of the nucleic acid which can improve the accuracy of sequence determination of the nucleic acid. In certain embodiments the same portion of the nucleic acid is measured at least one time or a plurality of times e.g. at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 100 200 300 400 500 1000 10 000 times .

In certain embodiments the nucleic acid can be flossed between multiple registration markers coupled to one or more nucleotide types comprising the nucleic acid strand. For example the nucleic acid can be a single stranded DNA and comprises 5 registration markers 1 2 3 4 and 5 . In this example the DNA can be measured multiple times between markers 1 and 2 then 2 and 3 then 3 and 4 and then 4 and 5. In another illustrative example the DNA can be measured between markers 1 and 4 multiple times without changing the voltage bias when markers 2 and 3 are detected between the flossing of the DNA between markers 1 and 4.

In certain embodiments the voltage bias is changed each time a registration marker is detected. In other embodiments the voltage bias need not be changed when a registration marker is detected i.e. the voltage bias is changed as needed or desired . In certain embodiments the nucleic acid comprises three or more registration markers. In certain embodiments the number of measurements of portions of the nucleic acid between registration markers is the same. For example a nucleic acid containing three registration makers noted as 1 2 and 3 for illustrative purposes only can provide one section between registration markers 1 and 2 and another section between registration markers 2 and 3. In such an example the portion between markers 1 and 2 can be measured 5 times and the portion between markers 2 and 3 can be measured 5 times by changing the voltage bias as the registration marker is detected. In certain embodiments the number of reads of portions of the nucleic acid between registration markers is different. For example a nucleic acid again contains three registration makers 1 2 and 3 thus providing a section between registration markers 1 and 2 and another section between registration markers 2 and 3. In this example the portion between markers 1 and 2 can be measured 5 times and the portion between markers 2 and 3 can be measured 10 times.

In certain embodiments multiple measurements of the same portion of a nucleic acid strand can improve the sequencing accuracy of at least a portion of the nucleic acid. It will be appreciated that as a nucleic acid or portions of a nucleic acid translocate through a channel and or nanopore the duration for nucleic acids or portions of nucleic acids with the same sequence to translocate the channel and or nanopore varies. As an example when the nucleic acid is unmodified DNA the distribution of duration times can be fit to an translocation model as described in Lubensky et al. . vol. 77 no. 4 pp. 1824 1838 Oct. 1 1999 1999 incorporated herein by reference. In certain embodiments multiple measurements of the same portion of a nucleic acid can improve the sequence accuracy by providing additional measurements of the current level and duration of the current measurements of the portion of the nucleic acid. These multiple measurements can be used with data analysis processing techniques to determine the most likely sequence of a nucleic acid.

In certain embodiments this method can be additionally applied and particularly useful to a nucleic acid comprising two or more of the same nucleotides in a row also termed repeat bases. For example when a nucleic acid is single stranded DNA and the strand contains a span of 5 adenine nucleotides in series. In such an example the 5 adenines are predicted to produce the same current level and thus one way to determine the number of nucleotides in a row would be to determine the number based on the duration of the current level measured. However as discussed above the translocation duration for identical nucleic acid strands or sections of nucleic acid strands will vary. In certain embodiments multiple measurements of a section of the nucleic acid containing at least two of the same nucleotides can be used with known data processing techniques to more accurately determine the sequence of the nucleic acid.

In certain embodiments the current modulating compound comprises any compound or molecule that when coupled to a nucleic acid or nucleotide type in a nucleic acid modulates current flow through a channel when the current modulating compound is present in the channel as compared to the same nucleic acid without the current modulating compound. In certain embodiments the current modulating compound is selected from the non limiting group comprising alkanes alkenes alkynes aryls sugars carbohydrates azides halides amines imines peptides crown ethers metal binding ligands transition metal complexes and the like including combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the current modulating compound is coupled to the nucleic acid by a damaged lesion that is naturally occurring in the nucleic acid strand as described in this application. In certain embodiments the nucleic acid strand is chemically modified to produce a damaged lesion to enable the coupling of a current modulating compound as described in this application. As an example a nucleotide in the nucleic acid is converted to an abasic site and the current modulating compound aminomethyl 18 crown 6 is coupled to the abasic site.

Described herein is a method for using current modulating compounds to identify repeat nucleotides within a nucleic acid sequence. As is described previously when a nucleic acid sequence is comprised of one or more sections that contain two or more of the same nucleotide in a row it can present a challenge in correctly determining the number of such identical nucleotides in each section. For example the nanopore sequencing method can produce uncertainties when trying to interpret signals from sequences such as 5 polyTAGGGATCCCGTA 3 SEQ ID NO 13 and 5 TAGGGGATCCGTA 3 SEQ ID NO 14 leading to uncertainty in the number of specific nucleotides G and C in this example present in the sequence. While using current modulating compounds as registration markers can be used to identify these repeat nucleotides an additional use of current modulating compounds is described herein to identify these repeats based upon separate measurements of multiple nucleic acid strands.

In certain embodiments a nucleic acid can comprise at least two of the same nucleotides in a row e.g. at least 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 or 1 000 . In some embodiments a nucleic acid is comprised of at least one current modulating compound coupled to at least one nucleotide that is adjacent to at least one other nucleotide of the same type. For example the nucleic acid is single stranded DNA and the sequence is 5 polyTAGGGATCCCGTA 3 SEQ ID NO 13 where T is noted as the 1base and A is noted as the 13base in this illustrative example. In this example a current modulating compound is coupled to the 3base G in this case which is next to another G base the 4base. In certain embodiments current modulating compounds can be coupled to more than one nucleotide that is adjacent to at least one other nucleotide of the same type. For example in the sequence discussed above 5 polyTAGGGATCCCGTA 3 SEQ ID NO 13 current modulating compounds could be coupled to the 3and 5bases.

In certain embodiments the method of coupling a current modulating compound to a nucleic acid can result in the compound being coupled to two adjacent bases. In certain embodiments this method involves cis platin as described elsewhere in this application. In certain embodiments the current modulating compound can be coupled to different repeat bases in different nucleic acids. For example with the sequence 5 polyTAGGGATCCCGTA 3 SEQ ID NO 13 in the first nucleic acid strand the cis platin current modulating compound couples to the G bases at positions 3 and 4. In a second nucleic acid strand the cis platin current modulating compound couples to the G bases at positions 4 and 5.

In certain embodiments multiple measurements of the nucleic acids with the same sequence with current modulating compounds at the same or different positions on the strand are taken. For example the nucleic acid 5 polyTAGGGATCCCGTA 3 SEQ ID NO 13 is used and current modulating compounds are coupled to the strands in a random or diffusive pattern. Multiple measurements of different strands with the same sequence indicate that a current modulating compound is detected as positions 3 and 4 as well as 4 and 5. It can then be known that there are three repeat G bases at positions 3 4 and 5. In another example a current modulating compound that binds to only one base at a time for example bromination of a cytosine base is used again with the strand 5 polyTAGGGATCCCGTA 3 SEQ ID NO 13 . Multiple measurements of these strands indicate that there are current modulating compounds detected at positions 8 9 and 10. Thus this method enables multiple measurements of nucleic acids to be used to determine the number of repeat bases in a section of a nucleic acid strand.

In certain embodiments a percentage of the repeat bases are coupled to current modulating compounds in order to enable identification of repeat bases. In certain embodiments about 1 to 100 of repeat bases are coupled to current modulating compounds e.g. about 1 2 3 4 5 10 15 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 .

In certain embodiments this method of detecting repeat bases can be combined with the method of using registration markers previously described herein. For example current modulating compounds can be coupled to the nucleotide type adenine in a single stranded DNA molecule and the compound used as a registration marker to enable multiple reads of the same section of the nucleic acid. In addition the cis platin adduct can be allowed to couple to repeat guanine bases within the same nucleic acid. In such an example the registration markers associated with the adenine nucleotide can be used to read the same section of the nucleic acid multiple times. In addition as numerous measurements are made of nucleic acids with the same sequence the number and position of the cis platin adduct can be determined to further help with the identification of repeat bases.

ssDNA can be modified via individual bases and the phosphodiester backbone to introduce high contrast markers i.e. current modulating compounds by altering measured current. These modifications will help to register DNA during multiple reads as well as to improve the signal contrast between bases and decrease the ssDNA trans location time.

One current modulating compound that can be used to identify individual bases is cis platin which binds preferentially to adjacent guanines via kinetically stable coordination bonds to N7 of G as shown in . The amine ligands can be varied to larger groups e.g. 1 2 cyclohexanediamine to modulate the signal several cis platin analogs are commercially available and can also be used.

The complexation of cisplatin cis PtCl NH to DNA is governed by the rate of hydrolysis to form aqua species cis PtCl NH HO and cis PtCl NH HO . The reactive diaqua species of cisplatin was obtained in aqueous solution through ligand exchange by the removal of Cl with 1.95 equivalents of AgNO mixing for 48 h protected from light.

The 64 base oligomer containing GG platination site was synthesized at University of Utah Core Facilities. In this study cis Pt GpG NH adducts were formed to 64 mer containing one or three GpG reactive sites. Cisplatin adducts were obtained through incubation of 4.5 mol equivalents of diaqua platinum species with DNA d TGGT SEQ ID NO 15 or d TUTGGTGGTGGTUT SEQ ID NO 16 in buffer 10 mM sodium phosphate at pH 6.0 .

Characterization of the Cisplatin GG Adduct by High Performance Liquid Chromatography HPLC and Electrospray Ionization Mass Spectroscopy ESI MS .

The platinated 64 mer GG strands were first purified by HPLC using anion exchange column a linear gradient from 35 to 100 10 mM ammonium acetate pH 7.0 in 10 acetonitrile for 30 min at a flow rate of 1 mL min Purified oligomer was dialyzed and its concentration and purity was confirmed by denaturing gel electrophoresis.

ESI mass spectrometry analysis of 64mer containing cisplatin adducts could not be obtained due to poor ionization in ESI MS conditions due to residual salt present in such a large oligomer. A representative oligonucleotide control of 15 bases containing a GG reactive site d CATCTGACGGCTCAA SEQ ID NO 17 was successfully prepared and characterized. Cis platin adduct was confirmed in this 15mer with the expected mass of 4767 g mol and its expected molecular ions in positive modes .

ssDNA oligomers were prepared with a biotin linker attached at the 3 end for binding to streptavidin. Strong binding between biotin and streptavidin provides a means to immobilize the DNA within the ion channel. The DNA biotin oligonucleotides comprise a poly dC background in which Gs are inserted between positions 8 and 14 relative to the 3 end. The oligonucleotides were synthesized by the DNA Peptide Core Facility University of Utah and the biotin linker phosphoramidite was purchased from Glen Research Va. The presence of biotin and the purity of the samples were determined by gel electrophoresis prior to ion channel measurements. The four oligonucleotides shown in along with biotin tethers have been synthesized characterized and employed in ion channel measurements.

This demonstrates the ability to differentiate single base substitutions based on the ion channel conductivity. These measurements can be extended to oligomers in which a single G is substituted at different positions to multiple G substitutions and to chemically modified DNA e.g. oxidized G halogenation and cis platin adducts .

The following molecules were analyzed using a Strep BTN linker to immobilize ssDNA within an HL channel as a means of distinguishing between single bases in the immobilized strand. The modifications were at either position 8 or 14. C40 Btn was used as the control DNA sample and modifications upon the C40 strand produced OG or a benzylamine adduct BzAdd at position 8 Strep BTN C8OG and Strep BTN C8OG BzAdd respectively or position 14 Strep BTN C14OG and Strep BTN C14OG BzAdd respectively . Structures for the molecules are shown in . Note that it is expected that the 8 position to be in the vestibule at the entrance to the constriction zone and that 14 is in the constriction zone of the channel.

Strep BTN ssDNA molecules were driven into the channel held to collect a current signal and released by reversing the applied potential polarity this cycle was repeated to obtain a population of current blockage events. All data were taken with 120 mV applied potential unless otherwise specified.

Primary amine adducts to oxidized G residues are synthesized by treating synthetic oligonucleotides containing 8 oxoG with a primary amine in the presence of a mild oxidant such as NaFe CN or NaIrCl. For example BTN C8OG BzAdd was synthesized from a 3 biotinylated 40mer in which one nucleotides was replaced with the OG nucleotide as shown above. Additionally these adducts can be prepared directly from G containing oligomers by treatment with NaIrClor singlet oxygen in the presence of the primary amine. Initially an experiment containing Strep BTN C8OG was performed and it resulted in a two peak distribution of I Iat 0.17 and 0.19. Next in a separate experiment data were collected for Strep BTN C8OG BzAdd and using the same protein Strep BTN C8OG was added to the same solution and data were again collected. Strep BTN C8OG BzAdd showed peaks similar in I Iposition to Strep BTN C8OG and when the mixed solution was analyzed molecules could not be cleanly distinguished from their I Ivalues. A summary of the results for Strep BTN C8OG and Strep BTN C8OG BzAdd are presented in . To the left are plots showing the residual currents and to the right are enlarged plots emphasizing peak position between the samples.

Experiments were also performed with Strep BTN C14OG and Strep BTN C14OG BzAdd. Strep BTN C14OG capture produced a similar result to Strep BTN C8OG there were two I Ipeaks at roughly 0.17 and 0.19. In a second experiment Strep BTN C14OG BzAdd was analyzed and showed a remarkably different I Iprofile with blocking events distributed from 0.05 to 0.19. The results are summarized in .

Example i t traces are shown below in for both Strep BTN C14OG top and C14OG BzAdd bottom . From the i t traces it is apparent that the different current blockage levels can be attributed to distinct levels in the signal rather than a noisy signal. However there some blocked current signals that are noisy reflecting the dynamic motion of the adducted DNA within the channel. Such noise can be used to identify the presence and structure of the adduct.

To further illustrate the distinctive signal produced by Strep BTN C14OG BzAdd and to reproduce previous results an experiment was performed to directly compare the signal against Strep BTN C40. Strep BTN C40 data were collected and to the solution using the same channel the Strep BTN C14OG BzAdd sample was added and additional data was recorded. Similar to previous results Strep BTN C40 produced a single I Ipeak around 0.17 and the Strep BTN C14OG BzAdd produced a widely distributed population of events .

Further work was done to characterize the dependence of the blocking current on the applied voltage. In these experiments Strep BTN C40 was captured and the blocking current measured from 80 to 140 mV applied bias. It was found the I Ifor Strep BTN C40 shifts to larger values at larger applied voltages . When discrete values of I and Iwere examined separately it was found that extrapolation of the current values in the range 80 to 140 mV to 0 mV applied voltage yielded large and significantly different intercepts 9 and 7 pA for the open and DNA blocked channel .

In further experiments i t traces were recorded for a bilayer and an open HL channel . Note that the bilayer data analyzed correspond to the bilayer directly preceding the channel insertion data that is also presented here in . Current was recorded between 140 mV to 140 mV at 20 mV increments including 0 mV. Both experiments demonstrate that the 0 mV applied current is less than 1 pA. More importantly the i V trace for the open channel shows rectifying behavior. Extrapolating to zero bias using only the current values between 80 and 140 mV yields a zero bias offset of 12 pA. A similar experiment to compare the extrapolated offset with the measured value while the channel is blocked is impossible because the DNA does not remain in the channel at 0 bias. However it is clear that dependence of the blocking current I I on the applied voltage is real and is due to the non linear i V behavior of ion channel. For the open channel this is demonstrated as described above for the blocked channel it is likely that some rectification also occurs . It is noted that I Ivalues for different DNA molecules be compared at the same voltage.

One of the goals is to investigate chemical modifications of DNA bases that could help distinguish between bases or between runs of the same base. The following modified DNA molecules shown in were analyzed using the Strep BTN attachment to immobilize ssDNA within an HL channel. Modification is at position 14 for Gh and at 13 and 14 for the Pt adduct where refers to the 3 end of the strand. Synthesis and preliminary characterization of the cis platin DNA complex was previously described. The guanidinohydantoin structure Gh is a derivative of guanine produced by oxidation.

In an additional experiment poly dC was added to the C38GG C38GGPt mixture. The mixture is associated with a lower blockage compared with the homopolymer.

The glass nanopore membrane GNM is a sealed glass capillary with a single conically shaped pore embedded within the glass membrane as shown in . The GNM acts as the solid support for a lipid bilayer following surface modification with 3 cyanopropyldimethlychlorosilane. HL is reconstituted in the bilayer for ion channel measurements.

Single stranded DNA can be linked to a biotin BTN molecule and bound to streptavidin Strep this results in DNA capture and immobilization within the HL ion channel. As a result of increased residence time within the HL channel the signal resolution is improved and the bases within the channel can be distinguished based on blockage current levels.

The Strep BTN DNA is driven into the HL by an applied voltage 120 mV cis captured and released by a reversal of the applied voltage 120 mV cis . The current values for the open channel current Io and the blocked current I are measured and used to determine the percent residual current I Io . Histograms are generated for the values of I Io and compared between molecules to determine how base modifications influence the current blockage level as illustrated in .

Although the tether technique allows the native bases to be distinguished the difference in the I Io is only 1 2 and increasing this difference would further improve sequencing efforts. The DNA nucleotide that resides within the HL constriction can be modified to significantly amplify differences in I I allowing base by base molecule identification. Results presented use the capture technique for a Strep BTN dC40 that is modified at position 14.

Guanine in the 14 position of poly dC39 results in 1 higher blockage current compared to the homopolymer dC40. Modification of the guanine residue through oxidation can be used to add a bulky adduct which can change the current signal by more than 5 resulting in a significantly different current blockage histogram compared to the native bases making it easily distinguishable. The following is an example of how powerful base modification can be for discerning between bases especially when the chemistry used for modification is base specific the i t trace for a Strep BTN C40 is compared to a molecule where the 14 position has been modified to contain a benzylamine Bz adduct C39Bz 14. The adduct changes the current level as well as current fluctuations associated with individual capture events. The ability to control the current signal both magnitude and noise in a base specific manner has many implications for DNA sequencing.

Experiments were performed with the following conditions bilayers were painted on GNMs with 10 mg DPhPC per mL decane 1 M KCl 25 mM Tris HCl 1 mM EDTA pH 7.9 was used as the buffered electrolyte 200 nM Strep BTN DNA was present in the experimental cell and 120 mV was used to capture release the molecule. DNA molecules were attached to the BTN using a tether.

The plot shown in shows the mean percent current blockage for the native DNA bases C T A and G at position 14. The I Io peak positions are 0 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.1 and 0.9 0.2 for C40 C39T 14 C39A 14 and C39G 14 respectively the current blockage for C40 is used as the reference position 0 I Io in all plots .

Oxidation of G to OG at position 14 does not result in a significant shift in peak position relative to C39G 14 as shown in . Further oxidation of OG yields the base modifications Sp and Gh and shifts the current blockage peak position away from the C39G 14 peak as seen in . C39Gh 14 has a peak shifted to higher I Io values while the peak for C39Sp 14 is shifted to lower values. The higher current for C39Gh 14 likely reflects the higher charge and flexibility compared to C39Sp 14.

The oxidation of guanine and the addition of an adduct result in large peak shifts away from the position of C39G 14 by as much as 5 as seen in . Both C39Bz 14 and C39Sd 14 are shifted to lower I Io values compared to C39G 14 and reflect the presence of bulky adducts. The occurrence of multiple peaks here is attributed to multiple possible conformations of the molecule within the channel both C39Bz 14 and C39Sd 14 have a chiral center and contain diastereomer pairs.

Gly Pro Arg Pro amide spermine spermidine benzylamine D glucosamine N acetyllysine methyl ester hydrochloride and NaIrCl were purchased from commercial suppliers and used without further purification.

The 3 biotinylated oligodeoxynucleotides ODN were synthesized from commercially available phosphoramidites Glen Research Sterling Va. by the DNA Peptide Core Facility at the University of Utah. After synthesis each ODN was cleaved from the synthetic column and deprotected according to the manufacturer s protocols followed by purification using a semi preparation ion exchange HPLC column with a linear gradient of 25 to 100 B over 30 min while monitoring absorbance at 260 nm A 20 mM Tris 1 M NaCl pH 7 in 10 CHCN 90 ddHO B 10 CHCN 90 ddHO flow rate 3 mL min The identities and purities of the ODNs were determined by negative ion electron spray EST on a Micromass Quattro II mass spectrometer equipped with Zspray API source in the mass spectrometry laboratory at the Department of Chemistry University of Utah.

The ODN hydantoin ODN Sp NR products were synthesized according to the following the ODN Gh products were produced by incubating OG containing oligomers 10 M 1 nmole in ddHO at 4 C. for 30 mM 12 equivalents of NaIrCl 120 M 12 nmoles were titrated into the ODN samples. After a 30 min incubation the reactions were terminated with NaEDTA pH 8 1 mM 100 nmoles . The ODN Sp products were synthesized by allowing the OG containing oligomers 10 M 1 nmole in 75 mM NaPbuffer pH 7.4 to incubate at 45 C. for 30 min followed by addition of 12 equivalents of NaIrCl 120 M 12 nmoles and NaEDTA pH 8 1 mM 100 nmoles was used to quench the oxidant after the reactions proceeded for 30 min.

The syntheses of ODN Sp NRs were achieved by thermally equilibrating the OG containing oligomers 10 M 1 nmole and various amines 2 mM 200 nmoles in 75 mM NaPi buffer pH 8.0 at 45 C. for 30 min then 15 equivalents of NaIrCl 150 M 15 nmoles were titrated into the samples that were then left for 30 min. The reactions were quenched the same way as previously described.

All the products were purified by an analytical ion exchange HPLC column with a linear gradient of 25 to 100 B over 30 min while monitoring absorbance at 260 nm A 20 mM Tris 1 M NaCl pH 7 in 10 CHCN 90 ddHO B 10 CHCN 90 ddHO flow rate 1 mL min see Table 2. ODN Sp spermine and ODN Sp spermidine products were used immediately due to their instability.

Aqueous solutions mentioned below were prepared using 18 M cm ultrapure water from a Barnstead E pure water purifier. KCl Sigma Aldrich trizma base Sigma Aldrich EDTA Mallinckrodt Chemicals and HCl EMD were used as received. A buffered electrolyte solution of 1.0 M KCl 25 mM Tris HCl and 1.0 mM EDTA pH 7.9 was prepared and used for all ion channel recording measurements. The buffered electrolyte solution was filtered using a sterile 0.22 mm Millipore vacuum filter Fisher Scientific . The wild type protein channel hemolysin HL isolated from as a monomer was obtained as a lyophilized powder from List Biological Laboratories and stored at concentration of 0.5 mg HL per mL ultra pure water in a 20 C. freezer. Upon use the HL solution was diluted to a concentration of 0.05 mg HL per mL using the above mentioned buffered electrolyte and added directly to the experimental cell. The phospholipid 1 2 diphytanoyl sn glycero 3 phosphocholine DPhPC was purchased from Avanti Polar Lipids as a powder and stored in a 20 C. freezer. Upon use the DPhPC powder was dispersed in decane Fisher Scientific to a concentration of 10 mg DPhPC per mL decane. Glass nanopore membranes GNMs were fabricated and before use as a bilayer support were silanized in 2 v v 3 cyanopropyldimethylchlorosilane in acetonitrile Fisher Scientific overnight. Ag AgCl electrodes were prepared by soaking silver wire 0.25 mm diameter Alfa Aesar in bleach. All DNA oligomers studied were obtained as described above and DNA molecule binding to streptavidin was achieved by mixing DNA and streptavidin at a 4 1 ratio and incubating at room temperature for 10 minutes.

Current time i t measurements were performed using a custom built high impedance low noise amplifier and data acquisition system Electronic Bio Sciences San Diego Calif. . Before use a glass nanopore membrane GNM was rinsed with ethanol and ultra pure water and finally filled with buffered electrolyte. The GNM was positioned within the EBS DC System via a pipette holder Dagan Corporation where the back end was sealed to a pressure gauge and 10 mL gas tight syringe Hamilton . An Ag AgCl electrode wire was positioned inside the GNM and a second Ag AgCl electrode was positioned in the experimental cell external to the GNM. The same buffered electrolyte used to fill the GNM was added to the EBS DC System experimental cell HL was also added to the experimental cell external to the GNM . Voltage was applied across the GNM orifice cis vs. trans with respect to the HL channel and external vs. internal with respect to the GNM and the resultant current was measured as a function of time.

Suspended bilayers were generated through painting. To form a suspended bilayer a plastic pipette tip gel loading tips flat 1 200 L 0.4 mm was filled with lipid solution and gently pulled across the GNM face over the orifice. The establishment of a bilayer was confirmed by observing a drop in conductance as voltage was applied across the GNM orifice an open pore has a resistance of approximately 10 M while a bilayer suspended across a GNM exhibits a resistance of around 100 G . After bilayer formation a pressure was applied to the back of the GNM for protein channel reconstitution to occur. Strep Btn DNA was added to the cell in 100 200 nM increments. DNA was captured and held using an applied voltage of 120 mV cis vs. trans and released by reversing the bias. The modified sample of interest was added to the experimental cell first and after an adequate number of blockage events are collected a second control sample Strep Btn C was added to the cell to provide a reference position. Data were collected with a 10 kHz low pass filter and 50 kHz data acquisition rate.

Only capture events longer than 1 second were included in data analysis. All event current blockage values I were normalized by the immediately preceding open channel current I and expressed as I I. The Strep Btn C I Ipeak position was set as the reference position 0. I Ifor all other molecules is reported relative to Strep Btn C more blocking I Ivalues are negative relative to Strep Btn Cand less blocking I Ivalues are positive relative to Strep Btn C.

KCl EDTA Tris HCl taurine Arg His D glucosamine Gly Pro Arg Pro amide streptomycin 15 crown 5 methylamine and 18 crown 6 methylamine NaCNBH wild type HL phospholipid 1 2 diphytanoyl sn glycero 3 phosphocholine DPhPC streptavidin and urical DNA glycosylase UDG were purchased from commercial suppliers and used without further purification.

The oligodeoxynucleotides ODN were synthesized from commercially available phosphoramidites Glen Research Sterling Va. by the DNA Peptide Core Facility at the University of Utah. After synthesis each ODN was cleaved from the synthetic column and deprotected according to the manufacturer s protocols followed by purification using a semi preparation ion exchange HPLC column with a linear gradient of 25 to 100 B over 35 min while monitoring absorbance at 260 nm A 20 mM Tris 1 M NaCl pH 7 in 10 CHCN 90 ddHO B 10 CHCN 90 ddHO flow rate 3 mL min Uridine containing oligomers 10 M 1 nmole and 1 unit UDG were thermally equilibrated in UDG buffer pH 8.0 at 37 C. for 30 min followed by dialysis against ddHO for 12 h. The resulting AP containing ODNs 10 M 1 nmole were dried and resuspended in MOPS buffer pH 6.5 followed by the addition of the appropriate amine 20 mM 2 moles and NaCNBH 100 mM 10 moles then the reactions were kept at 37 C. for 24 h. Unreacted AP containing ODNs were cleaved by 0.1 M NaOH. After dialysis again ddHO for 12 h all products were purified by analytical ion exchange HPLC running a linear gradient of 25 to 100 B over 35 mM while monitoring absorbance at 260 nm A 20 mM Tris 1 M NaCl pH 7 in 10 CHCN 90 ddHO B 10 CHCN 90 ddHO flow rate 1 mL min . Analysis of the crude reaction products indicated the yields of approximately 85 90 . The identities of the 3 biotinylated ODNs were determined by negative ion electron spray ESI mass spectrometry on a Micromass Quattro II mass spectrometer equipped with Zspray API source in the mass spectrometry laboratory at the Department of Chemistry University of Utah.

Ultra pure water 18 M cm was prepared by a Barnstead E pure water purifier and used to make buffered electrolyte solution 1.0 M KCl 1.0 mM EDTA 25 mM Tris pH 7.9 that was used for the single ion channel current recording. The electrolyte was filtered with a sterile 0.22 mm Millipore vacuum filter before the measurement. The protein HL was diluted to a 0.5 mg mL solution in ultra pure water and the lipid DPhPC was dissolved in decane to a concentration of 10 mg mL both of which were stored in a 20 C. freezer. The glass nanopore membrane GNM radius 600 nm was silanized in 2 v v 3 cyanopropyldimethylchlorosilane in CHCN for 6 h. Ag AgCl electrodes were prepared by soaking silver wires diameter 0.25 mm in bleach. In the immobilization studies the 3 biotinylated ODNs 160 pmol were mixed with streptavidin 40 pmol and kept at 23 C. for 20 min before the measurements while in the translocation studies the 87 mer ODNs were used directly after purification and dialysis.

A custom built high impedance low noise amplifier and data acquisition system donated by Electronic Bio Sciences San Diego Calif. was used for the current time i t recordings. The GNM was rinsed with CHCN ethanol and ultra pure water and then filled with the electrolyte described above. A pipette holder with a pressure gauge and a 10 mL gas tight syringe was used to locate the GNM to the DC system. Two Ag AgCl electrodes were positioned inside and outside of the GNM to apply a voltage.

The lipid DPhPC solution 1 L was painted on the GNM surface using a plastic pipette tip flat gel loading tips 1 200 L to form a suspended bilayer which was confirmed by the resistance of approximately 100 G a dramatic decrease from that of an open GNM orifice 10 M . After the addition of HL 0.2 L pressure was applied to assist the insertion of the ion channel which had a resistance of around 1 G under these conditions.

In the immobilization studies Strep Btn DNA 40 pmol 200 nM was added in the cell and more than 200 capture release events were collected under 120 mV bias with a 10 kHz low pass filter and 50 kHz data acquisition rate. Then the same amount of Strep Btn Cwas added as an internal standard and 200 events were collected for each strand under the same conditions. As for the translocation studies 87 mer DNA 2 nmol 10 M was added and more than 2000 events were collected under different voltages 80 100 120 160 mV with a 100 kHz low pass filter and 500 kHz data acquisition rate.

The Strep Btn DNA was retained in the ion channel for 1 s and a histogram of the percentage residual current I Iwas plotted with a bin width of 0.1 setting Strep Btn C0 .

As for the poly dC the histogram of events longer than 0.01 ms was fit into a Gaussian model with a peak location tand events with duration t twere selected and fit into an exponential decay model with a decay constant under different voltages as described in the early report.As for the poly dCGPRPdC the events that had longer tthan the tof poly dCunder the corresponding voltage were fit into an exponential decay model while the constant was compared to poly dC. A bin width of 0.01 ms was applied for all the analysis.

The foregoing detailed description describes the invention with reference to specific exemplary embodiments. However it will be appreciated that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims. The detailed description and accompanying drawings are to be regarded as merely illustrative rather than as restrictive and all such modifications or changes if any are intended to fall within the scope of the present invention as described and set forth herein.

