---

title: System and methods related to sports leagues
abstract: Systems and methods for providing a game related to fantasy sports is described herein where a database includes information associated with live sporting events, a user module receives information associated with the live sporting events, a gaming server communicatively coupled to the database and the computing device is configured to display a list of the live sporting events, receive selections from teams of event outcomes, receive event outcome information from the database, display event outcome information on the user module, and determine whether the team is a winning team or a losing team. Winning teams are awarded points based on the number of losing teams and a predetermined multiplier. Losing teams are deduced points based on the number of winning teams and a predetermined multiplier. Adjusted spreads associated with the live sporting events may be calculated and applied to confer a competitive advantage to the teams.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569922&OS=09569922&RS=09569922
owner: TEASER FEVER, LLC
number: 09569922
owner_city: Bloomfield Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150903
---
The subject patent application claims priority to and all the benefits of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 045 346 filed on Sep. 3 2014 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to fantasy sports leagues. More specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods related to fantasy sports leagues.

One way to more actively follow sports is through sports betting. Sports betting has become increasingly popular especially with the promotion of gaming via the Internet. In sports betting combining two or more games into a single wager is known as a parlay wager. Traditional parlay wagers require that all of the two or more games chosen by the bettor beat the predetermined spread which is a range of outcomes rather than a win or lose outcome. Because it is more difficult to win a parlay wager rather than an individual wager the payout for parlay wagers is often higher than the payout for an individual wager.

In traditional sports betting the spread of a particular sporting event changes as a majority of wagers move to one side over the other. This distributes the wagers to level the playing field for subsequent wagers prior to the start of the sporting event. The payout is based on the odds the bettor received at the time of placing the wager.

For sports enthusiasts who cannot or do not want to engage in traditional sports betting fantasy sports leagues have emerged as an alternative. Fantasy sports participants select individual players from professional sports leagues to create their own teams. Participants manage these teams throughout the course of an entire season and participants often join fantasy sports leagues with their friends family members and or colleagues. Participants are awarded points based on the real life performance of the players on their fantasy teams. Fantasy scoring relies on the performance of only a few all star athletes at a time. This can be frustrating for participants as the game does not focus on the teams on the field but only the individuals on the participant s fantasy team. The management of fantasy teams can be a very long and time consuming process as participants must manage their fantasy teams on a weekly basis.

As a result a system that allows league members the ability to participate in a competition that automatically determines a winner without requiring a large investment of time is desirable. Thus participants may more actively follow sporting events. Finally it is desirable for a game that utilizes sports betting concepts in a league based game.

The invention generally relates to a game related to fantasy sports leagues using adjusted spreads where the losing teams pay or distribute points to the winning teams.

Some embodiments are directed to a system for providing a game related to fantasy sports where a database includes information associated with live sporting events a user module receives information associated with the live sporting events a gaming server communicates with the database and the computing device and displays a list of the live sporting events receives selections from teams of event outcomes receives event outcome information from the database displays event outcome information on the user module and determines whether the team is a winning team or a losing team. Winning teams are awarded points based on the number of losing teams and a predetermined multiplier. Losing teams are deduced points based on the number of winning teams and a predetermined multiplier.

In some embodiments a system for providing a game related to fantasy sports is provided where a database includes information associated with live sporting events a user module receives information associated with the live sporting events a gaming server communicates with the database and the computing device and displays a list of the live sporting events receives a predetermined spread adjustment value from a game administrator retrieves a spread for each of the live sporting events from the database and applies the spread adjustment value to the spread to produce an adjusted spread for each of the live sporting events.

Some embodiments are directed to a method for providing a game to a user via a computing device that includes storing information associated with live sporting events receiving information associated with the live sporting events displaying a list of live sporting events on the computing device receiving during a certain time period a team s selection of event outcomes receiving event outcome information displaying event outcome information on the computing device determining whether the selected event outcomes occurred during the time period and determining whether the team is a winning team or a losing team based on the selected event outcomes.

In some embodiments a method for providing a game related to fantasy sports is provided where a database stores information associated with a live sporting events information is received associated with the live sporting events a list of live sporting events is displayed a predetermined spread adjustment value from is received from a game administrator a spread for each of the live sporting events is retrieved from the database and the spread adjustment value is applied to the spread to produce an adjusted spread for each of the live sporting events.

Persons of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the following description of the present invention is illustrative only and not in any way limiting. Other embodiments of the invention will readily suggest themselves to such skilled persons.

With reference to the drawings and description the present invention overcomes at least some of the disadvantages of known fantasy sports leagues. The fantasy sports league of the present invention utilizes and aggregates real world scores and adjusted odds to produce an engaging and challenging social competition.

Gaming server includes a processor memory device from which gaming information and other relevant data is accessible to electronic communications device . Memory device includes a computer readable medium such as without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory a hard disk drive a solid state drive a diskette a flash drive a compact disc a digital video disc and or any suitable device that enables processor to store retrieve and or execute instructions and or data.

Gaming server may include one or more internal data storage devices e.g. a hard drive not shown for storing content for communication to electronic communications device . Gaming server is connected to an external data storage device from which gaming server obtains information concerning sporting events for communication to electronic communications device . Server computer is controlled by software to provide content to electronic communications device .

Gaming server accesses information on future sporting events from external data storage device and information on the outcome of the sporting events from this device or from a sports wire service. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that this process involves communication through routers and other network components in addition to suitable servers as is dictated by the particular network environment.

Electronic communications device includes a display device for providing a display such as for example and without limitation a cathode ray tube CRT display light emitting diode LED display liquid crystal diode LCD display plasma display or tactile display. Electronic communications device further includes a user input device such as for example and without limitation a keyboard mouse trackball touchpad or microphone.

Electronic communications device is controlled by software which may include network communication and browser software to allow a user to request receive and display information from or through gaming server via communications network .

With reference to a flowchart illustrates an exemplary user registration method. According to the flowchart a user who desires to participate in a league establishes a connection in step on a wide area computer network between an electronic communications device see and a gaming server .

Referring again to a user may optionally download a mobile application to an electronic communications device at step .

Once a user has established a connection with gaming server the player accesses home page in step . At step the user accesses a sign up page via a link from the home page. Once a user has accessed the sign up page the user is prompted to enter personal information at step . Personal information may include for example name address date of birth user name password and method of payment information. At step the personal information is conveyed to and verified by gaming server . If the information is accepted gaming server allows the user to access a gaming page in step .

Once connected to the gaming page the user may create or join one or more leagues at step . The leagues may be chosen from for example a drop down list or other selectable list format. Each league may have an unlimited number of users. In a preferred embodiment each league has a minimum of 4 users and a maximum of 200 users. A league may be formed at the start of a regular season of a particular sport during the season or in the post season. The creator of a league may be designated the league commissioner. The league commissioner may elect a payment option for teams participating in the league. The league commissioner may select for example a Pay Individually option in which all league teams will pay their own fees. Alternatively the league commissioner may select a Sponsor option where a participant pays for another participant s fees. illustrates a graphical user interface on a display showing an exemplary payment option screen.

Leagues may be public or private based on the settings chosen by the league commissioner. Any user around the world may join a public league for free. A private league is open to invited users only. Joining a private league may require a unique password. However private leagues allow access to additional features such as Powerups described in more detail below . Joining leagues may be free or may require payment of a fee to the game administrator.

For each league the user joins the user may then create a team or join an existing team at step . An existing team may be chosen from for example a drop down list or other selectable list format. Each team comprises one or more users and has at least one manager that makes decisions on behalf of the team. Multiple users may co manage a single team from multiple user accounts if desired. Each team has an associated balance which may consist of points and or currency.

The game of the present invention may be applied to any professional or collegiate sport including but not limited to American football soccer basketball baseball golf and hockey. The length of league play may be a week a single game a full season a post season period or any other time period determined by the game administrator or league commissioner.

The number of selections that each team may make for a particular time period is determined by the league commissioner. Each selection is associated with a gaming event for which there is an associated adjusted spread value. Any number combinations of these three variables number of selections adjusted spread and time period may be used. In a preferred embodiment there are four selections per team per week and the adjusted spread value is two scores. The adjusted spread value could be expressed in other ways such as a percentage of the spread or a multiple of the spread. The following preferred embodiment assumes game play occurring during a regular sports season but game play during a post season period would work in substantially the same manner.

In the preferred embodiment each team must make four selections each week using the adjusted spread values. Each team may make weekly selections independently and confidentially from one another. In other embodiments teams may make selections publicly. In the preferred embodiment the adjusted spread values are increased with two scores 14 points for each selection. For example if Denver DEN is playing Seattle SEA and DEN is favored by 6 points the regular spread would be DEN 6 and SEA 6. In the preferred embodiment the adjusted spread would be DEN 8 and SEA 20. The calculation of the adjusted spread is shown below Team DEN 8 6 14 8 Team SEA 20 6 14 20 

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates an exemplary game play method using the predetermined number of selections and adjusted spread of the preferred embodiment.

At step the gaming events available for selection for the week are displayed on the web page for the users. At step the spreads are displayed for each of the available gaming events. At step the adjusted spread for each available gaming event is determined and displayed. At optional step the adjusted spreads may be locked at a predetermined date and time which may be communicated to the users for example a message may be displayed on the web page Weekly Spreads are posted each Wednesday at Noon EST . .

At step the user the team manager makes four selections of the available gaming events for the week. The user may use the adjusted spreads to decide which teams he thinks will be winners during the week. The selection window the time period during which the selections must be made will be displayed on the web page so the user knows when he is allowed to make his selections for example a message may be displayed on the web page Thursday Night Game Picks are Due by 5 m. EST on Thursday. All Other Picks Due by Saturday at Noon EST . .

At step live updates regarding the scores of the gaming events are retrieved and displayed on the web page. Updates may also be communicated to users via other methods such as by push notifications on smart phones or tablets. Referring back to gaming server accesses information about the gaming events the external data storage device and information on the outcome of game based sporting events either from this device or from one or more sports wire services such as Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The API connectivity allows the gaming server to pull betting odds from reputable sources. The APIs further retrieve scores for professional and college level sporting events in real time allowing gaming server to organize and output the data for display to the users on the electronic communications device .

Referring again to at step the number of winning selections by the user is determined by comparing the user s selections with the scoring data for the gaming events. If all four of a user s selections are correct the team is a winning team for the week. At step the winning team is awarded points based on the total number of losing teams for the week multiplied by a point increment that has been predetermined by the game administrator.

If any one of the user s four selections is incorrect the team is a losing team for the week. At the option of the game administrator or league commissioner a tie or push with the adjusted spread may be counted as an incorrect selection. At step the system determines whether more than one of the user s selections is incorrect. If only one of the user s selections is incorrect at step points are deducted based on the total number of winning teams multiplied by a point increment that has been predetermined by the league commissioner. If more than one of the user s selections is incorrect at step points are deducted based on the total number of winning teams multiplied by a point increment that has been predetermined by the league commissioner and additional points are deducted based on the number of incorrect selections.

In any given week or other time period determined by the league commissioner if there are no losing teams all winning teams or no winning teams all losing teams then a different scoring mechanism may be applied. An FP Score for each team in the league may be calculated. The FP Score measures the total quality of each team s selections. The teams with the top 50 of the FP Scores will be considered winning teams. The teams with the bottom 50 of the FP Scores will be considered losing teams.

In an alternative embodiment if there are no losing teams all winning teams or no winning teams all losing teams in the given time period there may be No Action or Carry Over . In the No Action variation every team scores zero and there is no payout during the given time period for any team. In the Carry Over variation the increment doubles for the subsequent time period. For instance if the increment is set at 10 during week one and there are no winning teams or no losing teams then the increment will be increased to 20 during week two only. In week three the increment would return to the standard 10.

At step the cumulative team balance is determined based on the awarding or deducting of points. It will be understood that points as used herein could include non monetary points or currency.

At step the method of game play is repeated on a weekly basis. In alternative embodiments the method may not be repeated as in the case of single week leagues or could be repeated weekly for only part of a sports season partial season leagues or could be repeated every week for an entire sports season full season leagues typically 17 weeks or a full season plus post season league . Any other suitable time period could be used for a league such as for example a Playoff league that runs only during a playoff period for a particular sport .

An example of the method of is described herein using an American football league. shows a listing of all gaming events one of which is labeled available for a particular week. This listing will be reviewed by the teams before making their selections. The listing also shows the spread and the adjusted spread associated with each gaming event. shows a listing of the selections of each team in the league chosen by the team managers from the listing of . In this example each team was allowed four selections for the week. shows a listing of the results of the selections of each team in the league. The losing selections are highlighted one of which is labeled . The final result is also shown and includes WINNER LOSER DOUBLE LOSER TRIPLE LOSER and QUADRUPLE LOSER not shown . shows a listing of the calculated balances for each team . The payouts after the weekly results are shown in the first column . The cumulative balances or Standings are shown in the second column .

In an alternative example an adjusted spread calculation and total points calculation for a single team s weekly selections is illustrated in . In this example the team chose the following selections DEN Pick CHI Pick IND Pick and WAS Pick . All selections were correct selections. The final scores of the events are listed one of which is labeled . The spread for each event is also listed. Points are added according to the predetermined spread adjustment value. The adjusted spread is calculated by adding points to the spread . The adjusted spread is added to the final score and the opponent s score is subtracted to determine the total score for the events known as FP Points . The FP Points for each selection is calculated and a total is calculated for the week which is the amount that is multiplied by the predetermined point increment and added to the team s balance.

As users are playing directly against the other users in their league s as opposed to against a bookie or the house this game includes a strategic element. For each user the ideal outcome is to be on a winning team for the time period. The fewer the winning teams the higher the payout for the winning teams. As a result it is important that users maintain some secrecy in their selection process.

Users may acquire or purchase Powerups which each confer a potential competitive advantage to users who own them. The following are examples of Powerups that may be acquired or purchased by users and are intended as illustrative and not limiting.

Before making its selections a team can reveal another targeted team s selection s . For instance Team A may acquire a single Pick Revealer to review one of Team B s selections. Team A may acquire as many of these Powerups as desired to see all of Team B s and or Team C s and or Team D s etc. selections. The team who acquires this Powerup may use it only when the target team has already made its selections.

Before making its selections a team can choose one or more selection e.g. one team playing in a sporting event from the available selections and display the percentage of users that made that selection out of all selections that have been made by all teams. These percentages will only display the submitted selections at the time the Powerup is executed and as such it may be beneficial to use this Powerup as close as possible to the end of the selection window. Teams may buy multiples of this Powerup to see percentages associated with more than one selection. Alternatively teams may purchase subscriptions to see percentages of one or more selections throughout the league play period.

A team may be more confident about certain selections over others. This Powerup allows the team to move some of the adjusted spread points between their selections. For instance suppose a team made following selections CHI 17 HOU 2 GB 0 even DET 6.5. However the team is very confident that CHI will beat the spread but less certain that GB will beat the spread. This Powerup would allow one point from the CHI spread to be moved to the GB spread. The resulting spreads would be CHI 16 HOU 2 GB 1 DET 6.5 thus giving the team better odds for the GB selection.

If a team has been a losing team for more than a certain number of weeks consecutively this Powerup will become available to the team. If implemented the team can black out a particular game from the league s first place team or all first place teams if there are multiple teams tied for first place such that the team s could not select the game as one of its allotted selections. All other teams in the league would still be able to select the game.

If a team has been a losing team for more than a certain number of weeks consecutively this Powerup will become available to the team. If implemented the team can black out a particular game from all other teams in a league except the team using the Powerup such that no other team is able to select the game as one of its allotted selections.

A team can pay for the advice of a Guru who will provide recommended selection combinations for the week. Each Guru s advice price may vary based on the Guru s record. As an added function the selections may automatically generate in the team s selection box if chosen by the team.

Should a team fail to make its allotted selections prior to the closing of the selection window normally the team may be an automatic loser for the week or may receive an underdog lineup. That is the events least likely to result in a winning outcome based on the adjusted spreads will automatically be chosen for the team. However utilizing this Powerup will randomly select four new selections for the team.

The adjusted spreads for a league may be locked when they are released for display to the users see step . However in reality spreads fluctuate each day. To save time a team can use this Powerup to quickly display how the spread for each gaming event has moved since it was locked. The team may find this information useful in making their selections.

After a team makes an incorrect selection it may exercise this advanced feature to make one additional selection from the remaining available gaming events. Depending on the league commissioner s settings for the league the team may be required to risk additional points to take advantage of this feature.

Selection behaviors of each team participating in a league will be recorded and may be displayed to other league teams to show tendencies and biases. This information may be used by other teams in developing their own selection strategies. Examples of behaviors by league teams include for example and not by way of limitation biases towards favorites underdogs home athletes or athletic teams away athletes or athletic teams athletes or athletic teams from particular cities athletes or athletic teams from particular conferences and athletes or athletic teams from particular divisions.

Statistical analysis of adjusted spread specific reporting on athletic teams will be recorded and displayed to show tendencies and biases. This information may be used by participating league teams in developing their own selection strategies. Examples of behaviors include for example and not by way of limitation how an athletic team plays at home when the designated adjusted spread how an athletic team plays on the road with the designated adjusted spread how an athletic team plays in different weather conditions with an adjusted spread and how an athletic team plays in the post season with an adjusted spread.

Multiple Incorrect Selections A penalty pot is created for teams who have a certain number of incorrect selections in a single week. Losing teams may be required to contribute to the penalty pot by a predetermined increment or multiple of the increment which may be chosen by the league commissioner. For example and not by way of limitation an increment of 10 may be chosen by the league commissioner with the following multiples Double Loser 1 Triple Loser 2 Quadruple Loser 3 . In this scenario a Double Loser would contribute 10 to the penalty pot a Triple Loser would contribute 20 and a Quadruple Loser would contribute 30. Alternatively the league commissioner may determine a flat contribution amount across the board e.g. all losers pay the same amount such as 10 or differing flat amounts for each tier e.g. Double Losers pay 10 Triple Losers pay 30 Quadruple Losers pay 50 . Many variations of the penalty pot calculation are possible.

As an optional feature the league commissioner may implement a penalty whereby a losing team that has made 2 Double Loser 3 Triple Loser 4 Quadruple Loser or some other predetermined number of incorrect selections in a single week must donate a minimum amount to a designated charity.

Sporting Event Dynamic Visual Aid for Spreads and Adjusted Spreads A unique meter is displayed on the gaming page that acts as a dynamic visual aid based on a selection s performance which is updated in real time. As the game progresses the visual aid will change based on how the particular selection is performing. illustrates an exemplary formula for calculating the Sporting Event Dynamic Visual Aid for spreads and adjusted spreads. shows an exemplary graphical user interface on a display illustrating the use of the Sporting Event Dynamic Visual Aid on a team s selections where different shading represents different colors for wins losses and pending games allowing the user to see quickly and easily how the team is performing in the weekly competition. Colors symbols or any other visual cue may be used to illustrate performance in the Sporting Event Dynamic Visual Aid.

In traditional gaming it is possible to bet on both teams competing in a single gaming event. However it is impossible to win both of the bets since once team will win and one team will lose. Due to the nature of the adjusted spread of the present invention it is possible that a team can select both teams competing in a single gaming event and that both of those selections will be correct or winning selections.

The present invention may include a Social Hub where users may communicate with one another purchase Powerups and purchase apparel or other merchandise. When registering for league play users may be required to enter a telephone number and or an email address see step . Users may utilize a tool from the website and or mobile application that allows communication between players of the same or different teams via e mail text SMS or telephone. This feature also extends into any other third party communication platform including but not limited to any internet based site used as a medium of communication between individuals. illustrates an exemplary display of an electronic communications device showing options available to users for social interaction such as talk text and e mail icons.

Additional information may be displayed to teams that may be helpful in making selections including for example weather information player injury reports spread information and game location.

When the selection window has closed all teams will have either made their selections or selections will have been automatically assigned. Immediate following the selection window closing teams may view each other s selections. Certain statistics such as the number of teams that made certain selections may also be viewable.

At times an automated mail system may send e mail messages to all users or a subset of users based on custom settings of the league commissioner or the game administrator. Example message topics may include but are not limited to spreads selections and results payouts.

The league commissioner may decide that a team that miss the selection window is automatically a losing team. The team may be given an option to pay a nominal fee e.g. 1 5 to generate selections and thus have a second chance at being a winning team e.g. underdog lineup based on adjusted spread underdog lineup based on team records random selection generator etc. .

An automated mail system may send e mail messages to all users or a subset of users when a team is about to become a Double Loser Triple Loser Quadruple Loser or other losing team based on multiple losing selections as determined by the league settings.

Additional points may be awarded to the top finishing teams at the end of a season. Additional points may be awarded to the top finishing teams at the quarter point or mid point of a season. The prize pool is calculated by deducting a predetermined amount from all teams which is then awarded to the prize pool winner or winners. Users may join multiple leagues under the same user account and the sum of the user s overall standings in each league may be calculated for prizes and or other rewards.

Teams may have the option to participate in a bonus playoff after the end of a regular season. Game play during post season periods works in substantially the same manner as described in the foregoing examples. The scoring of the post season leagues may be separate from the scoring rules of the regular season e.g. the standings are cleared and re start with the post season league . For instance in the case of American football the post season playoff league would take place during the three professional football playoff weekends and the professional football championship for a total of 4 weeks.

Depending on the number of gaming events available during the post season league the predetermined number of selections may be increased or decreased e.g. only 3 selections are required instead of the standard 4 required during the regular season . Moreover the spread may be adjusted differently during the post season league e.g. the spread may be adjusted by 10 points instead of the standard 14 points during the regular season .

Notification schedules may assist league commissioners and or game administrators with the communication of timing of selections and the posting of results to a league s teams. illustrates an exemplary notification schedule for a league that follows a professional sports league e.g. the NFL NBA or the like . illustrates an exemplary notification schedule for a league that follows a collegiate sports league e.g. the NCAA or the like .

Each user that registers for a league may have a customizable user profile. illustrates a graphical user interface on a display showing an exemplary user profile. A listing of the teams and or leagues that the user has joined may be displayed along with team information such as the team s record and balance information . Other information may be accessible from this page including the league home page league settings scoring information and a Pick Center where selections for each team may be researched and entered.

The individual team web pages may be accessible via links from the user s profile. illustrates a graphical user interface on a display showing an exemplary team web page. Information about the team including for example the team name manager or co manager names a primary e mail address and telephone number may be displayed. Moreover the user may choose which alerts or messages to receive regarding the team updates including for instance Triple Loser alerts Quadruple Loser alerts and a reminder when selections are due via SMS or e mail . Alerts may be sent for other reasons including for instance alerts regarding a losing team based on a different number of multiple losing selections e.g. Double Loser Quintuple Loser etc. as determined by the league settings.

