---

title: In-store advertisement customization
abstract: A system or method is provided to detect and check-in a user at a merchant's store. The system may retrieve the user's preferences and may customize advertisements and/or promotions based on the user's preferences. The customized advertisements may then be presented or displayed to the user as the user browses or shops in the merchant's store. In particular, the customized advertisements may be selected or generated based on the user's transaction history, browsing history, purchase history, pre-defined preferences, and the like. In an embodiment, the system may detect and check-in multiple users at a merchant's location. The system may select or generate advertisements based on multiple users who are visiting the merchant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519919&OS=09519919&RS=09519919
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09519919
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150310
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for implementing in store advertisement customization.

Merchants typically display advertisements at physical store locations to attract customers attention or to incentivize customers to visit. Traditional advertisement displays are static and may not be applicable or appropriate to all customers who visit the store. Thus it may be difficult for the advertisements to capture the attention of all types of customers or visitors. Further static advertisements may include general contents in an attempt to cover a majority of customers. However the general contents may not have good results for lack of specificity. Thus there is a need for a system or method that customizes in store advertisements to better attract and incentivize customers.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

According to an embodiment a system or method is provided to detect and check in a user at a merchant s store. The system may retrieve the user s preferences and may customize advertisements and or promotions based on the user s preferences. The customized advertisements may then be presented or displayed to the user as the user browses or shops in the merchant s store. In particular the customized advertisements may be selected or generated based on the user s transaction history browsing history purchase history pre defined preferences and the like.

In an embodiment the system may detect and check in multiple users at a merchant s location. The system may select or generate advertisements based on multiple users who are visiting the merchant. In particular the system may analyze and consider preferences from multiple users to customize the promotions or offers presented to the users. Further the preferences from different users may be weighted differently based on the user s importance and or priority. For example users who are frequent customers may be weighted more such that the in store advertisements are customized to target the more frequent customers.

In an embodiment the system may detect and check in users and may determine user restrictions such as age restrictions. As such the advertisements may be filtered to remove inappropriate contents and appropriate promotions and or offers may be presented or displayed to the users who have certain restrictions. For example advertisements for alcoholic beverages may be removed from the advertisements when underage users are visiting the merchant s store or in front of an advertisement display.

In some embodiments the system may monitor a user s movement in a merchant s store. In particular the location and movement of the consumer in the merchant s store may be monitored by detecting a location of the consumer s mobile device via Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication using a network of BLE devices such as beacons positioned throughout the merchant s store. Based on the BLE signals detected at the consumer s mobile device the location of the consumer in the store may be determined by triangulation and by referencing the designated positions of the BLE beacons that emits the BLE signals. Thus advertisements may be presented to the user based on the user s location in the merchant s store. For example the merchant s store may have multiple displays for promotions and offers. As such the multiple displays may present different advertisements to different users simultaneously based on the users locations.

In some embodiments the advertisements may be visual displays such as images moving pictures color scheme and the like. The advertisement may also include audio presentations such as music infomercial audio broadcast and the like. In an embodiment offers and or prices may be customized and displayed at a product based on the customer s preferences and status. In some embodiments the advertisements may include offers or promotions to entice customers to visit nearby merchants. As such the advertisement space in one merchant s store may be utilized by another merchant to advertise to customers.

In some embodiments the advertisements may be customized based on the context environmental factors trend and the like. In particular the advertisements may be customized based on the time of the day season of the year and the like particular to the detected user s . For example the user is shopping at a store and lunch time is approaching the system may generate promotions or offers for nearby restaurants and may present lunch promotions or offers specific to the user at the store such as known food items or restaurants of interest to the user.

System may include a user device a merchant server and a payment provider server in communication over a network . Payment provider server may be maintained by a payment service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. A user such as a sender or consumer utilizes user device to perform a transaction using payment provider server . User may utilize user device to initiate a payment transaction receive a transaction approval request or reply to the request. Note that transaction as used herein refers to any suitable action performed using the user device including payments transfer of information display of information etc. For example user may utilize user device to initiate a deposit into a savings account. Although only one merchant server is shown a plurality of merchant servers may be utilized if the user is purchasing products or services from multiple merchants.

In some embodiments user device may download a shopping application from payment provider server or from merchant server . The shopping application may allow user to compose shopping lists listing items to be purchased at the merchant s store. The user also may use the shopping application to check in at the merchant s store when the user visits the store. The user s presence at the store may be detected by various wireless techniques such as by GPS location technique Bluetooth communication Near Field Communication NFC or the like.

User device may include a Bluetooth device configured to implement low energy Bluetooth communication. A network of low energy Bluetooth beacons may be installed at various locations inside the merchant s store. Thus the location and movements of user device in the merchant s store may be determined by detecting the various Bluetooth beacons installed in the merchant s store. When user utilizes the shopping application on user device to purchase items on a shopping list the locations and movements of user in the merchant s store may be monitored.

User device merchant server and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network . Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone wearable device laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as a user account for setting up a shopping list and or merchant sites for viewing and purchasing products and services. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate transfer information make payments and otherwise utilize a smart wallet through the payment provider as discussed above. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

User device may include location detection device such as GPS system and the like. Further user device may include a Bluetooth device configured to implement low energy Bluetooth BLE communication. For example user device may detect various low energy Bluetooth signals from Bluetooth beacons installed in a merchant s store. Thus locations and movements of user device may be determined by positioning techniques such as triangulation or location fingerprinting.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by a merchant or seller offering various products and or services. The merchant may have a physical point of sale POS store front. The merchant may be a participating merchant who has a merchant account with the payment service provider. Merchant server may be used for POS or online purchases and transactions. Generally merchant server may be maintained by anyone or any entity that receives money which includes individuals as well as banks and retailers. For example a payment made to a person or a deposit to a saving account. Merchant server may include a database identifying available products including digital goods and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also may include a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of user device . In one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to view various products food items or services identified in database .

Merchant server also may include a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services online or at a physical POS or store front. Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from or on behalf of user through payment service provider server over network . For example checkout application may receive and process a payment confirmation from payment service provider server as well as transmit transaction information to the payment provider and receive information from the payment provider e.g. a transaction ID . Checkout application may be configured to receive payment via a plurality of payment methods including cash credit cards debit cards checks money orders or the like.

Merchant server may be connected to a network of Bluetooth beacons installed in the merchant s brick and mortar store. The network of Bluetooth beacons may be installed at respective locations throughout the merchant s store to form a grid. Each Bluetooth beacon may emit a low energy Bluetooth signal in specific frequency spectrum periodically. Thus the network of Bluetooth may allow detection of locations and movements of consumer in the merchant s store. In some embodiments merchant server may maintain a database that stores shopping routes taken by consumers. The shopping routes may be routes taken by the consumers when browsing or shopping in the merchant s store.

Merchant server also may be connected to a plurality of presentation devices such as visual displays audio broadcast devices lightings or other presentation devices configured to present promotions and or offers to customers who are visiting the merchant s store. The presentation devices may be installed at various locations in the merchant s store such as at the front of the store facing customers passing by inside the stores near various products at the beginning of aisle or departments and the like. The presentation devices may be configured to communicate with the merchant server . As such the merchant server may communicate information for displaying advertisements to the presentation devices.

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment between user and the operator of merchant server . In this regard payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services communicate display information and send payments by user of user device .

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with consumers merchants and funding sources such as banks or credit card companies. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application to track and manage purchases made by users and which and when funding sources are used.

In some embodiments payment provider server may maintain user history in the account information such as user s browsing history purchase history communication history and the like. In some embodiments payment provider server may have access to user s contact list to do list calendar and the like. Payment provider server may utilize the account information to customize promotions or offers for the user. In an embodiment payment provider server may include an advertisement database storing various promotions or offers from various merchants. The payment provider server may select and customize advertisements from the advertisement database to be presented to the user.

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive information from user device and or merchant server for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing an order and payment using various selected funding instruments including for initial purchase and payment after purchase as described herein. As such transaction processing application may store details of an order from individual users including funding source used credit options available etc. Payment application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary.

At step the system may determine user s preferences and or interests based on the collected user history. In particular based on the user s transactions history purchase history browsing history shopping history and the like the system may determine the user s interest or preferences for particular merchants products services sports entertainment music news and the like. For example based on the merchant or the type of merchant the user visits or shops the system may determine the type of products or services the user prefers. In another example based on the user s communication with other users and the user s internet browsing history the system may determine that the user is interested in purchasing certain products or services. In still another example based on the user s calendar or social media posting the system may determine that the user has a birthday event coming up soon and may infer that the user is interested in shopping for certain birthday related products or services such as birthday cards or birthday party services.

In some embodiments the system may use the user s attributes such as gender age bracket household income bracket education resident location social media followings and other demographic information. The user may provide information regarding the user s attributes to the merchant or from an external source such as third party companies.

In some embodiments the system may allow the user to designate privacy settings on how the user s personal information may be used for target advertisement. For example the user may opt out of target advertisements using the user s behavioral data. The system may provide a link which may direct the user to an interface or a web page that allow the user to designate various privacy settings related to target advertisements.

At step the system may determine or select promotions ads or offers based on the user s preferences or interests. For example the system may notify the user of certain promotions offered at merchants where the user frequently shops. In another example the system may suggest other merchants similar to the ones the user frequently visits. In some embodiments the system may customize the content of the advertisements such as by inserting the user s name adjusting the discount rate inserting context information selecting language style and the like. The advertisements may include various forms such as in visual form audio form textual form and the like. The advertisements may be stored and ready to be presented to the user at appropriate times and locations as described below.

In process the system may set up for in store presentation of the customized advertisements. At step user device or payment provider server may receive merchant information from various merchants or operators of public venues. For example merchant information for grocery stores retail stores restaurants food truck parks museums open air markets such as flea markets or swap meets or other public places visited by consumers may be received by user device or payment provider server . The merchant information may include the name of the merchant or owner the address contact information type of business products or services offered and other information related to the store. Payment provider server may store the each merchant information in a database each with its own profile.

At step user device or payment provider server may receive layouts of the merchant s location such as the store or venue of the merchant. The layout of the location may include locations of presentation devices in the store such as display screen audio output device lighting and the like. As shown in as an example the store layout of a grocery store may include various display screens . A display screen is installed near the entrance when customers enter and other display screens also are installed at each corner of the store.

Further the layout of the location may include positions of detection devices configured to detect the presence or location of customers. For example a network of Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacons may be utilized to detect the presence location and or movement of consumers in the store. The beacon layouts may be merged with their corresponding store layouts such that the coordinate of each beacon in the beacon grid may be designated. For example a network of Bluetooth beacons may be installed in the merchant s store. Each Bluetooth beacon may be installed at a specific location in the merchant s store and may emit low energy Bluetooth signals. Thus a network of Bluetooth beacons may be formed in the merchant s store.

As shown in as an example the store layout of a grocery merchant may include shelves . Each shelf in the store may have three Bluetooth beacons one at the front section one at the middle section and one at the rear section. Each checkout counter also may have a Bluetooth beacon . Further one Bluetooth beacon may be installed at a customer service counter near the entrance of the store. The network of Bluetooth beacons may be connected to merchant device . Each Bluetooth beacon may emit a low energy Bluetooth signal with specific frequency spectrum. User may carry a user device including a Bluetooth device configured to communicate via low energy Bluetooth communication. When user enters the merchant s store user device may detect Bluetooth beacons installed near the store s entrance such as the Bluetooth beacon at customer service counter and the Bluetooth beacon at a checkout counter . Thus the position of user device may be determined based on which Bluetooth signals are received and the respective signal strength of the signals.

At step the system may determine the presentation capabilities of the merchant location. In particular the system may determine the composition the types the specification and the locations of presentations available at the merchant location. For example the merchant location may have three screen displays located at the front of the store and audio speakers throughout the store. The system also may obtain specification of the presentation device such as the type of operating system the communication capability of the presentation device the screen size type of display and the like. Thus the system may determine whether the presentation device is capable of receiving and presenting customized advertisements.

At step the system may generate a store presentation profile based on the above obtained information. The store presentation profile may include the merchant information layout of the merchant location available presentation devices and the location and capability of the presentation devices in the merchant location. The system may use the store presentation profile to determine what type or style of advertisement information can be presented at the store. As such the system may determine and communicate the appropriate type or style of advertisement information to the presentation devices at the merchant store to be displayed.

Accordingly process allows the system to collect user history based on which advertisements may be customized for the user. Process allows the system to obtain or gather information regarding various merchant locations and the respective presentation devices installed at the merchant locations. In particular the system may gather the number composition location and specification of the available presentation devices in the store to generate a store presentation profile. The system may customize advertisements based on the store presentation profile.

At step in response to detecting that the user is at a merchant s location the system may check in the user at the merchant location. In some embodiments the user may automatically be checked in. In other embodiments the system may ask the user whether the user wishes to be checked in at the merchant location. After the user is checked in the system may access and retrieve user account of the user . The user account may include interests and or preferences of the user .

At step the system may retrieve the user s preferences and interests. In particular the system may access the user s account to retrieve the user s preferences and interests. The preferences and interests may indicate products merchants styles categories themes and other preferences or interests of the user . For example the preferences and interests may indicate the user s interest in certain sports or sports team certain art or music style particular product and the like. The preferences or interests may have a time aspect such as a constant or permanent interest a seasonal interest or a temporary interest.

At step the system may customize promotions and offers based on the user s preferences or interests. In an embodiment the system may select promotions and or offers related or associated with the merchant the user is visiting. For example the user is visiting a hardware store. The system may select promotions and or offers issued by the hardware store. In another example the system may select promotions and or offers issued from other similar hardware stores.

In some embodiments the system may select promotions and or offers issued from other nearby merchants based on the context of the visit. For example the user is visiting an apparel store near lunch time on a weekend. The system may then select promotions and or offers from nearby restaurants that match the user s food or dinning preferences or interests. In another example the user is visiting a gift shop and the user s calendar indicates that the birthday of a family member is coming up. The system may then select promotions and or offers related to birthday gifts cards appropriate for the family member s age and interests.

In an embodiment the preferences and or interests may be weighted for customizing the promotions and or offers based on the user s recent activities. In particular the user s recent activities such as online browsing history shopping history purchase history and the like may be analyzed and used to customize the promotions and or offers. For example the user is interested in purchasing a new refrigerator and has been browsing and researching various refrigerators online Based on these online browsing activities the system may select and customize promotions and or offers related to the type style and model of refrigerators the user has been reviewing or browsing. As such these promotions and offers may be presented to the user when the user visits a home appliance merchant location. This allows the user to experience a seamless shopping experience between online and in store shopping.

In an embodiment the contents of the promotions and or offers may be customized based on the user s personal information preferences and or interest. In particular the user s name may be inserted in the text or audio output of the promotions and or offers to better draw the user s attention. Further the style of language and or background music also may be customized based on the user s preferences and or interests. The levels of promotions and or offers also may be adjusted based on the user s preferences or interests. For example the system may determine that the user is very interested in purchasing children s gifts today because of the up coming birthday of the user s child. As such the system may provide greater discounts on the advertisements for children s gifts or toys. In another example the user may be a frequent shopper at the merchant. As such the system may provide advertisements with better discounts to keep the user s business. As such the system may customize the contents of offers and or promotions differently based on different users. In still another example the system may determine that the user has very strong interest in purchasing a particular product based on the user s recent activities such as online browsing history or search history. The system may adjust the price of the particular product displayed in the store when the user is at the store to provide strong incentive for the user to make the purchase.

In an embodiment the promotions and or offers may be customized based on the user s location and or movement within the merchant s location. For example the position of user device may be determined based on the Bluetooth signals received at user device using techniques such as triangulation or location fingerprint. In the triangulation technique the location of user device may be determined based on the locations of three Bluetooth beacons and the distance of user device from the two or more Bluetooth beacons . The locations of the Bluetooth beacons may be predetermined when the Bluetooth beacons are installed on the shopping floor of the store. The distance between the Bluetooth beacons and user device may be determined based on the signal strength received between the Bluetooth beacons and user device . A stronger signal may indicate a shorter distance while a weaker signal may indicate a longer distance. Thus based on the Bluetooth signals between the Bluetooth beacons and user device the location of user device may be determined using the triangulation technique.

For example as shown in three Bluetooth beacons A B and C may each emit a unique Bluetooth signal. The signal range of each beacon may be illustrated as a circle of dashed line surrounding each beacon. As shown in user device may be located at a position at which user device receives signals from beacon B and beacon C but not beacon A. In particular user device receives signals with about the same signal strength from both beacons B and C. Thus user device is located between an area between beacons B and C but away from A. Further based on the signal strengths of the signals the distance between user device and beacons B and C may be determined. User device or payment provider server may analyze the signals and their signal strengths received at user device and reference the locations of the beacons that emit these signals to determine the location of user device by triangulation techniques.

In the location fingerprint technique a database of signal fingerprints at various locations on the shopping floor may be predetermined. For example a signal profile may be predetermined for each location. The signal profile may include Bluetooth signals that are detected at that location and the strength of each of those detected Bluetooth signals. For example as shown in when user device is positioned at a certain position between beacons B and C a signal profile may be predetermined to indicate medium signals from beacons B and C and low or no signal from beacon A. A database of signal profiles associated with a plurality of respective locations on the shopping floor may be predetermined and stored. Thus based on a signal profile detected by user device a location of user device may be determined by referencing the database of signal profiles.

In some embodiments the signal profile may be the Bluetooth signal of user device received by respective Bluetooth beacons. For example as shown in when user device is positioned between beacons B and C a signal profile may be predetermined to indicate medium signals received by beacons B and C and weak or no signal received at beacon A. Thus the signal fingerprints may be signals received by user device or signals received by the respective Bluetooth beacons .

The location of user device may be determined by user device . For example user device may download a layout map of the merchant and may determine user device s position based on the Bluetooth signals detected and the floor layout of the Bluetooth beacons . In some embodiments merchant device may determine the location of user device based on which Bluetooth beacons detect user device and the strength of the signal detected at the Bluetooth beacons . In some embodiments the detected signals and signal strengths may be forwarded to payment provider server and payment provider server may determine the location of user device.

The system may determine the location of the user and may customize the promotions and offers based on the user s location in the merchant s location. For example the system may determine that the user is approaching the merchant s location such as at the entrance or the front of the store. The system may then customize the promotions or offers to be displayed near the entrance or at the front of the merchant s location. In another example the system may determine that the user is at a particular location in the merchant s location and may determine the type of products or services located near the user s location based on product placement layout map. The system may determine if any presentation devices are near that user s location. The system may select or customize advertisements for products or services that are near the user s location and are desired by the user based on the user s preferences and interests.

In an embodiment the system may customize the promotions or offers based on the types or capabilities of presentation devices available at the merchant s location. For example the merchant s location may have different types of presentation devices such as a display screen an audio output device a scroll display and the like. The system may customize the advertisement into the appropriate format for the presentation device. For example the system may customize the content of a promotion in image format for a screen display and may customize the content of the promotion in audio format for an audio output device. As such the appropriate content format may be generated for the appropriate type of presentation device.

In an embodiment the promotions and or offers may be customized based on the preferences and or interests of both the user and the other users who are also visiting the merchant s location. In particular multiple users may visit the merchant s location simultaneously. The system may check in the user and the other users at the merchant store and may retrieve each user s preferences and interests. The system may consider preferences and interests from each user when customizing promotions or offers to be presented in the merchant s location.

In an embodiment the system may select or customize promotions or offers based on popular and or common interests or preferences among the different users who are visiting the merchant location. For example ten people may be visiting the merchant s location. Five of them are interested in women s apparel three of them are interested in men s shoes and two of them are interested in children s apparel. The system may customize the advertisements to present more promotions or offers related to women s apparel based on the popularity of women s apparel 5 out of 10 people . In some embodiments the system may customize the advertisements to present promotions and or offers of different interests with different frequency based on the popularity of different interests. In the same example the system may select and present promotions and or offers related to women s apparel five out of ten times present promotions and or offers related to men s shoes three out of ten times and present promotions and or offers related to children s apparel two out of ten times. Thus promotions and or offers related to more popular interests are presented more frequently.

In an embodiment the system may weigh each user s preferences or interests differently for customizing advertisements. In particular more important users may be weighted more such that the system may customize the advertisements to present promotions and or offers more related to the important user s interests or preferences. In an example an important user is a frequent customer or loyal customer who has shopped at the merchant location multiple times. In another example an important user is a large spender who makes expensive purchases. In still another example an important user is a first time customer as such that the merchant may want to make a good impression. In an example an important user has great social media connections and may be able to promote the merchant effectively. Thus the system may customize the advertisements based on the importance of the users who are visiting the merchant location.

In an embodiment the system may determine that there are other users near the presentation device and may refrain from presenting advertisements including private or personal information of the user . This may protect the privacy of the user .

In an embodiment the system may customize the advertisements to remove certain content that are inappropriate or offensive to customers who are visiting the merchant s location. For example the system may customize the advertisements based on the user s demographics or background. For example the user s age may be used to customize the advertisements to prevent or remove promotions and or offers that are not age appropriate. In another example the system may customize the advertisements based on the user s cultural or religious background to remove promotions and or offers that are inappropriate or offensive to the user s cultural or religious background.

At step the system may present the promotions and or offers to the user . In particular the system may present the customized promotions and or offers to the user based on the types capabilities and or locations of presentation devices available at the merchant location. The content or information for the customized promotions and or offers may be communicated to the presentation devices from the merchant server the user device and or the payment provider server . For example the user device may customize advertisements and communicate them via WiFi Bluetooth and or NFC to nearby presentation devices. In another example the merchant server or the payment provider server may detect the user s location and may communicate information related to the customized advertisements to presentation devices located near the user . The merchant location may have multiple presentation devices located at different areas of the merchant location. Different presentation devices may present different customized advertisements to different users simultaneously based on the different users respective locations in the merchant location.

The customized advertisements may provide users with personalized in store shopping experience. The customized advertisements may be displayed to the users via display screens in the store. In some embodiments the presentation devices include audio output devices that output audio recordings of advertisements. The audio output devices also may play certain style or genre of music or recordings based on the user s preferences or interests. In an embodiment the presentation device may include a scent making device such as fragrance emitter or the like that may emit different scents or fragrance based on the user s preferences or interest. The presentation device also may include various types if visual or audio displaying device such as color lighting dimming device and the like that may modify the overall look and feel of the store based on the user s preferences or interests. As such the overall theme of the store may be customized and modified based on the user s preferences or interests. When the user is with other users either known or unknown the system may determine an item of interest common to the group such that the advertisement may be of interest to the entire group thereby maximizing the number of potential customers affected. These group advertisements may be presented at any location within or outside a merchant where the advertisement may be further dependent on the section or aisle having a particular type or group of items for sale. Alternatively an advertisement to the group can be focused on a subset of the group such as a more important customer or customers at the expense of others in the group who may be first time shoppers or shoppers not typically interested in items at the particular store location .

The above processes and may be executed by user device . In some embodiments the processes and may be executed at merchant device or payment provider server . In some other embodiments above processes and may be executed by one or more of user device merchant device and payment provider server in coordination with each other.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

