---

title: Method and apparatus for managing authentication
abstract: A method of and an apparatus for managing authentication in an electronic apparatus are provided. The method includes obtaining authentication information using an authentication module; pairing the authentication information with an object to which access is controlled; and displaying an image related to the object together with the authentication information. The electronic apparatus includes an authentication module configured to obtain authentication information; a control module configured to pair the authentication information with an object to which access is controlled; and a display module configured to display an image related to the object together with the authentication information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626505&OS=09626505&RS=09626505
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09626505
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150410
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed on Apr. 10 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0043168 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a method for effectively managing authentication information and more particularly to a method for effectively managing authentication by obtaining authentication information via an authentication module pairing the authentication information with an object to which access is controlled and displaying an image related to the object with the authentication information.

Due to the development of communication technologies and the electronic industry portable terminals have become an indispensable part of peoples lives. Such portable terminals are used for photographing navigating or making payments. Therefore a user can use various functions of a portable terminal such as taking photos without a separate camera finding directions without a separate navigation device or making payments without money or credit cards.

However a portable terminal may store a significant amount of privileged information so to protect the information the portable terminal authenticates the user via authentication modules and then executes functions that match the authentication modules. For example in the case of fingerprint authentication a portable terminal may automatically input information for logging onto the Internet upon the completion of the fingerprint authentication. Various solutions are provided in order to use an authentication function of the portable terminal along with iris recognition or biometric data such as fingerprint authentication. So the user requires a means for effectively managing various utilized authentication methods.

According to the related art in the case of executing a plurality of functions or applications of the portable terminal via authentication modules it is difficult to identify which authentication module is currently active. In addition a means for recognizing a valid period of an authentication module is not provided and in the case of one time authentication the user should authenticate himself or herself whenever he or she uses the portable terminal. Furthermore diversification of authentication modules requires technologies for various utilization methods for example designation of an authentication module using the authentication modules.

The present invention has been made to address the above mentioned problems and disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention provides a method of and apparatus for managing authentication in an electronic apparatus.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a method of managing authentication in an electronic apparatus is provided. The method includes obtaining authentication information via an authentication module pairing the authentication information with an object to which access is controlled and displaying an image related to the object together with the authentication information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an electronic apparatus is provided. The electronic apparatus includes an authentication module configured to obtain authentication information a control module configured to pair the authentication information with an object to which access is controlled and a display module configured to display an image related to the object together with the authentication information.

Hereinafter the present invention is described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present invention may have various embodiments and modifications and changes may be made therein. Therefore the present invention will be described in detail with reference to embodiments shown in the accompanying drawings. However it should be understood that there is no intent to limit the present invention to the particular forms and the present invention should be construed to cover all modifications equivalents and or alternatives falling within the scope and spirit of the present invention. In describing the drawings similar elements are designated by similar reference numerals.

As used in the present invention the expression include or may include refers to the existence of a corresponding function operation or constituent element and does not limit one or more additional functions operations or constituent elements. Further as used in the present invention the terms such as include or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

As used in the present invention the expression or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B may include A B or both A and B.

While expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second as used in the present invention may modify various constituent elements such constituent elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the corresponding constituent elements. The above expressions may be used merely for the purpose of distinguishing a constituent element from other constituent elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both are user devices. For example a first constituent element may be referred to as a second constituent element and likewise a second constituent element may also be referred to as a first constituent element without departing from the scope of the present invention.

When a component is referred to as being connected to or accessed by another component it should be understood that the component may be directly connected to or accessed by the other component but another component may also be interposed between them. In contrast when a component is referred to as being directly connected to or directly accessed by another component it should be understood that there is no additional component between the component and the other component.

The terms as used in an embodiment of the present invention are merely for the purpose of describing the embodiment and are not intended to limit the present invention. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical terms and scientific terms have the same meanings as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present invention.

An electronic device according to the present invention may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a Moving Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical appliance a camera and a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory electronic tattoos or a smartwatch .

According to an embodiment of the present invention an electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance as the electronic device for example may include at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio player a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic photo frame.

According to an embodiment of the present invention electronic devices may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA . Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT and ultrasonic machines navigation equipment a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an automotive infotainment device electronic equipment for ships e.g. ship navigation equipment and a gyrocompass avionics security equipment a vehicle head unit an industrial or home robot an Automatic Teller Machine ATM of a banking system and a Point of Sale POS device in a shop or store.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various kinds of measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter and a radio wave meter . An electronic device according to the present invention may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. Further an electronic device according to the present invention may be a flexible device. Further it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that an electronic device according to the present invention is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present invention will be discussed with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term a user as used in an embodiment of the present invention may refer to any person who uses an electronic device or any other device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device using an electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a control module .

The bus is a circuit interconnecting the aforementioned components and transmitting communication e.g. a control message between the aforementioned components.

The processor for example receives instructions from the aforementioned components e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the control module other than the processor via the bus decodes the received instructions and performs operations or data processing according to the decoded instructions.

The memory stores instructions or data received from or generated by the processor or other components e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface and the control module . The memory includes programming modules for example a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and applications . Each of the programming modules as described above may be formed by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor and the memory used to execute operations or functions implemented in the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API and the applications . Further the kernel provides an interface that allows the middleware the API or the applications to access and control or manage individual components of the electronic device .

The middleware serves to mediate between the API or the applications and the kernel that is allow the API or the application to communicate and exchange data with the kernel . Further the middleware performs control e.g. scheduling or load balancing for task requests received from the applications by using for example a method of assigning a priority for use of a system resource e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API is an interface for allowing the applications to control functions provided by the kernel and the middleware and may include at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for for example file control window control image processing or text control.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the applications may include a Short Message Service Multimedia Messaging Service SMS MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring the amount of exercise or blood glucose and an environmental information application e.g. an application for providing atmospheric pressure information humidity information temperature information and the like . Additionally or alternatively the applications may include an application associated with information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . The application associated with information exchange for example may include a notification relay application for transferring specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transferring notification information generated in another application of the electronic device e.g. the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environmental information application to an external electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application for example may receive notification information from an external electronic device and provide the received notification information to a user. The device management application for example may manage e.g. install remove or update a function for at least a part of an external electronic device communicating with the electronic device e.g. a function of turning on off an external electronic device itself or some components thereof or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display an application running on the external electronic device or a service provided in the external electronic device e.g. a calling or messaging service .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the applications may include an application specified according to an attribute e.g. type of an external electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the applications include an application associated with music playback. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the applications include an application associated with health care. According to an embodiment of the present invention the applications may include at least one of an application assigned to the electronic device and an application received from an external electronic device e.g. the server or the electronic device .

The input output interface for example transfers instructions or data input from a user via an input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the control module via the bus . For example the input output interface provides the processor with data corresponding to a user s touch input via a touch screen. Further the input output interface may for example receive instructions or data from the processor the memory the communication interface or the control module via the bus and output the received instructions or data via the input output device e.g. a speaker or a display . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed by the processor to a user via a speaker.

The communication interface establishes communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to the network via wireless or wired communication and thereby communicates with an external device. The wireless communication for example may include at least one of Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC a Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro or Global System for Mobile communication GSM . The wired communication for example may include at least one of a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the network may be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things IoT and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present invention a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device may be supported by at least one of the applications the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

The control module pairs authentication information obtained via an authentication module with an object to which access is controlled. The control module controls the display of images related to the object and the authentication information on the display . For example an authentication module may obtain at least one of letters numbers signs patterns or biometric data as authentication information. The display may display objects or a valid period according to the type of authentication. As a touch input on the valid period moves a predetermined direction the control module may change the valid period. When the touch input on the valid period moves in a first direction the control module may extend the valid period. In contrast when the touch input on the valid period moves in a second direction the control module may reduce the valid period. For example the control module may delete the authentication information related to the valid period and then may perform at least one operation of 1 terminating the object related to the deleted authentication information 2 unlocking other objects related to the deleted authentication information or 3 replacing the authentication information of the object with another piece of authentication information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the control module analyzes properties of the paired object and retrieves other objects that are related to the properties. In addition the control module may make a group that includes the paired object and the other objects retrieved and may pair the objects included in the group with the authentication information. The control module may give priority to the groups on the basis of the properties of the objects in the groups and may differentially pair the authentication information with the objects again according to the priority. The control module executes the object that matches the authentication information and counts the execution time of the object. If the counted time is within the valid period the control module may request re authentication. The control module performs the re authentication operation via the authentication module related to the authentication information or via a predetermined authentication module.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a method and an apparatus for managing authentication in which objects are paired with each piece of authentication information and access to the object is controlled based on the input authentication information.

Referring to the electronic apparatus includes a control module an authentication module and a display module .

The authentication module obtains authentication information. The authentication information may be at least one of letters numbers signs patterns or biometric data. The type of authentication module may be different according to the authentication information. For example if the authentication information is letters numbers or signs the authentication module may be a keypad. Alternatively if the authentication information is patterns the authentication module may be a touch screen. Alternatively if the authentication information is biometric data the authentication module may be a camera module or a fingerprint recognition sensor. If the biometric data is skin such as the user s hands or palms patterns blood vessel patterns or retinal patterns various sensors which are able to recognize the biometric data are used as the authentication module .

The control module pairs the authentication information with an object to which access is controlled. The object may include at least one piece of information stored in the electronic apparatus and the information may include multimedia data which includes at least one of text data video data and audio data applications contact lists or notes. The control module pairs the object with each piece of authentication information according to a user setup or a setup in the electronic apparatus . Since the object and the authentication information are paired with each other the user must input correct authentication information corresponding to the object in order to access the object. In other words the object is locked by the authentication information so access to the object requires authentication information that matches the object.

The display module displays images related to the object and the authentication information. The electronic apparatus displays data or applications such as phone calls messages contact lists notes or music in the form of icons. That is the objects are displayed as images e.g. icons to allow the user to intuitively recognize the objects. Hence the display module displays the images related to the objects and the authentication information corresponding to the objects so that the user can identify which authentication information has locked the object at a glance. Moreover the display module displays the authentication information in order of authentication or according to the type of authentication. In other words the display module sequentially displays the authentication information in order of authentication or may discretely display the authentication information in accordance with the type of authentication.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the control module may change the authentication information. When a menu is selected to change the authentication information the display module displays the objects according to the type of authentication or the valid period. The type of authentication refers to letters numbers signs patterns fingerprint recognition or iris recognition. As a touch input on the valid period moves in a predetermined direction while touching the valid period the control module changes the valid period. The control module may extend the valid period when the touch input on the valid period moves in a first direction. In contrast the control module may reduce the valid period when the touch input on the valid period moves in a second direction. The first direction and the second direction may be opposite to each other. For example if the first direction is directed to the right the second direction may be directed to the left. Alternatively if the first direction is directed upwards the second direction may be directed downwards.

When a request for a reduction of the valid period is received the control module deletes the authentication information according to the touch input. For example if the touch input moves in a second direction a second time moves in a third direction or if the touch input is maintained for long period of time e.g. more than 2 seconds on the valid period the control module interprets the touch input as a request for deleting the authentication information. The control module deletes the authentication information related to the valid period. When the authentication information is deleted the control module terminates the object related to the deleted authentication information. For example if the authentication information is deleted during the execution of the object or when the object is in an idle state the control module forces the object to be terminated. Alternatively the control module unlocks other objects related to the deleted authentication information. In other words in the case where one or more objects are paired with the authentication information if the authentication information is deleted the control module unlocks the other objects that match the deleted authentication information. The control module may replace the authentication information of the object with another piece of authentication information. When the authentication information is deleted the object paired with the deleted authentication information may be released from the locked state to be freely accessed. In this case the control module may replace the authentication information of the object related to the deleted authentication information with another piece of authentication information in order to prevent an invasion of privacy and information leakage.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the control module analyzes the properties of the paired object and retrieves other objects which are related to the properties. For example if the user has paired a single object with the authentication information the control module retrieves other objects that have similar or identical properties to the object. The control module creates a group that includes the paired object and the other objects retrieved and pairs the objects included in the group with the authentication information. Therefore although the user pairs the authentication information with a single object the control module automatically pairs the authentication information with other objects that are identical or similar to the single object so the convenience of the user can be enhanced. Then the control module gives priority to the groups on the basis of the properties of the objects in the groups and differentially pairs the authentication information with the objects again according to the priority. For example a high priority group may be paired with the authentication information that requires higher accuracy for authentication. Photos and contact lists tend to include more pieces of private information than music so the object properties of the photos or the contact lists may have higher priority than that of music. The control module gives higher priority to the group including more pieces of private information on the basis of the properties of the object in the group. Fingerprint recognition may be more accurate for user authentication than passwords or lock patterns and iris recognition may be more accurate for user authentication than fingerprint recognition. The control module may effectively manage the authentication information by differentially pairing the authentication information with the objects again in order of priority.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the control module executes the object that matches the authentication information and counts the execution time of the object in order to compare the same with the valid period of the authentication information. If the counted execution time is within the valid period the control module makes a request to the user for re authentication. When the object is executed the control module counts the execution time and makes a request to the user for re authentication before the valid period expires. For example if the valid period is 1 hour and the execution time counted by control module is 59 minutes re authentication is requested. The control module performs re authentication via either the authentication module related to the authentication information or a predetermined authentication module. The control module performs re authenticate using the last authentication information or new authentication information. For example the new authentication information may be iris authentication while the last authentication information was password. If the initial authentication information is no longer valid or if the re authentication fails the control module terminates the object that has been requested for execution or that is in progress or provides transformed information on the object.

An electronic apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention includes an authentication module that obtains authentication information a control module that pairs the authentication information with an object to which access is to be controlled and a display module that displays an image related to the object together with the authentication information.

The authentication module obtains as the authentication information at least one of letters numbers signs patterns or biometric data.

The display module displays the object or a valid period according to the type of authentication and as a touch input on the valid period moves in a predetermined direction the control module changes the valid period.

The control module if the touch input on the valid period moves in a first direction extends the valid period and if the touch input on the valid period moves in a second direction reduces the valid period.

The control module if the authentication information related to the valid period is deleted performs at least one operation of 1 terminating the object related to the deleted authentication information 2 unlocking other objects related to the deleted authentication information or 3 replacing the authentication information of the object with another piece of authentication information.

The control module analyzes the properties of the paired object retrieves other objects related to the properties makes a group that includes the paired object and the retrieved other objects and pairs the authentication information with the objects in the group.

The control module gives priority to the groups on the basis of the properties of the objects in the groups and differentially pairs the authentication information with the objects again according to the priority.

The control module executes the object that matches the authentication information counts the execution time of the object and if the counted time is within the valid period requests re authentication.

The control module performs the re authentication via an authentication module related to the authentication information or performs the re authentication via a predetermined authentication module.

Referring to in step the electronic apparatus obtains the authentication information via the authentication module. The authentication information may be at least one of letters numbers signs patterns or biometric data. The electronic apparatus may use different authentication modules depending on the authentication information.

Referring to in the case where the authentication information is a password including at least one of letters numbers or signs see numeral the electronic apparatus provides a keypad as the authentication module. The electronic apparatus receives an input of at least one of letters numbers or signs which are provided via the keypad as the authentication information.

In the case where the authentication information is a pattern see numeral the electronic apparatus provides a touch screen which is able to recognize patterns as the authentication module. The touch screen may be a combined form of a display module and an input module and a coordinate value may be obtained by touching the display module. For example the touch screen may display a virtual pattern for receiving a pattern input and then the user may input his or her own pattern along the virtual pattern.

According to an embodiment of present invention the authentication information may be biometric data. The biometric data may be more safe and more accurate than a password or a pattern input. For example the electronic apparatus may use various sensors that are able to detect the biometric data in the case of obtaining biometric data as the authentication information. In the case where the authentication information is fingerprint recognition see numeral the electronic apparatus provides a fingerprint recognition sensor as the authentication module. The fingerprint recognition sensor may be included in the display module such as a touch screen in whole or in part and when the user touches the touch screen by his or her finger the user s fingerprint is detected. In the case where the authentication information is iris recognition see numeral the electronic apparatus provides a camera module as the authentication module. The camera module includes a sensor that can recognize the iris of a user when the user s eyes approach the camera module within a predetermined distance. In addition in the case of obtaining biometric data such as skin hands or palms patterns blood vessel patterns or retinal patterns the electronic apparatus provides various sensors capable of detecting the biometric data as the authentication module.

Referring to in step the electronic apparatus pairs the authentication information with the object to which access is controlled by the authentication information. The object may include at least one piece of information that is stored in the electronic apparatus which includes multimedia data including at least one of text data video data and audio data applications contact lists or notes. The electronic apparatus pairs the object that is selected by the user with the authentication information. In addition the electronic apparatus may pair one or more objects with the authentication information as a default. Access to the object is controlled according to the authentication information. That is user access to the object may be approved or refused according to the validity of the authentication information. For example if the authentication information is valid the user s access to the object is approved and if the authentication information is not valid user access to the object is denied. If the input authentication information is identical to the initially obtained authentication information the authentication information may be regarded as valid. If the input authentication information is different from the initially obtained authentication information the authentication information may be regarded as invalid.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic apparatus converts the object into an idle state after pairing the authentication information with the object. In general in order to execute the object the electronic apparatus allows the user to select e.g. touch the object. When the object is selected the electronic apparatus loads the information on the object into memory to thereby execute the object. However it may take a significant time to load the information on the object into memory because the loading time of the information is different according to the objects. In the present invention once the authentication information is paired with the object the electronic apparatus determines that the user wishes to use the object. Accordingly the electronic apparatus loads the information on the object into memory in advance and then maintains the object in the idle state in order to reduce the time for the execution of the object when the user selects the object. Then if the user selects the object for use the electronic apparatus quickly executes the object using the information preliminarily loaded into memory.

In step the electronic apparatus displays images related to the object and the authentication information. The electronic apparatus displays data or applications such as phone calls messages contact lists notes or music in the form of icons. That is the objects are displayed as images e.g. icons to allow the user to intuitively recognize the objects. The electronic apparatus displays the object together with the authentication information related thereto so that the user can intuitively identify which authentication information has locked the object. Then the electronic apparatus sequentially displays the authentication information in order of authentication or discretely displays the authentication information according to the type of authentication.

A method for managing authentication according to an embodiment of the present invention includes obtaining authentication information via an authentication module pairing the authentication information with an object to which access is controlled and displaying an image related to the object together with the authentication information.

Obtaining authentication information includes obtaining at least one of letters numbers signs patterns or biometric data.

The method of managing authentication further includes displaying the object and a valid period according to the type of authentication and as a touch input on the valid period moves in a predetermined direction changing the valid period.

Changing the valid period includes if the touch input on the valid period moves in the first direction extending the valid period.

Changing of the valid period includes if the touch input on the valid period moves in a second direction reducing the valid period.

Reducing the valid period includes deleting the authentication information related to the valid period and terminating the object related to the deleted authentication information.

Reducing the valid period includes deleting the authentication information related to the valid period and unlocking other objects related to the deleted authentication information or replacing the authentication information of the object with another piece of authentication information.

In the method of managing authentication access to the object may be controlled according to the validity of the authentication information.

Pairing authentication information with an object to which access is controlled includes analyzing the properties of the paired object retrieving other objects related to the properties making a group that includes the paired object and the retrieved other objects and pairing the authentication information with the objects in the group.

The method of managing authentication includes giving priority to the groups on the basis of the properties of the objects in the groups and differentially pairing the authentication information again according to the priority.

Pairing authentication information with an object to which access is controlled includes executing the object that matches the authentication information counting the execution time of the object and if the counted time is within the valid period requesting re authentication.

Requesting re authentication includes performing re authentication via an authentication module related to the authentication information or performing re authentication via a predetermined authentication module.

Requesting re authentication includes if the authentication fails terminating the object in progress or providing transformed information on the object.

Displaying an image related to the object together with the authentication information includes displaying the image related to the object together with the authentication information in order of authentication or according to the type of authentication.

Referring to the electronic apparatus simultaneously displays images e.g. icons related to objects and the authentication information related to the objects see numeral . For example the electronic apparatus simultaneously display object of phone calls and the authentication information of fingerprint recognition thumbs see numeral . The electronic apparatus simultaneously displays the object of contact lists and the authentication information of fingerprint recognition index fingers see numeral . The electronic apparatus simultaneously displays the object of messages and the authentication information of iris recognition see numeral . The electronic apparatus simultaneously displays the object of the Internet and the authentication information of password L see numeral . In addition the electronic apparatus sequentially displays the authentication information in order of authentication or may discretely display the authentication information according to the type of authentication see numeral . The electronic apparatus displays the sequence of authentication and the type of authentication in the status area that shows the status of the electronic apparatus. The status area shows Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI power status the Internet connection date and time or the like.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic apparatus analyzes the properties of the paired objects and retrieves other objects which are related to the properties. In addition the electronic apparatus creates a group that includes the paired objects and the other retrieved objects and pairs the objects included in the group with the authentication information. The electronic apparatus gives priority to the groups on the basis of the properties of the objects in the groups and differentially pairs the authentication information with the objects again according to the priority.

In a case where an object of contact lists is paired with authentication information of thumb fingerprint recognition the electronic apparatus retrieves the objects of phone calls and photos which have identical or similar properties to the object contact lists. The electronic apparatus makes a group of the objects corresponding to the contact lists the phone calls and the photos and pairs the authentication information of thumb fingerprint recognition with the objects included in the group. In addition in a case where an object of the Internet is paired with authentication information of index finger fingerprint recognition the electronic apparatus retrieves other objects that have identical or similar properties to the object of the Internet. If other objects are not retrieved the electronic apparatus makes a group of a single object of the Internet and pairs the authentication information of index finger fingerprint recognition with the object included in the group.

Referring to the electronic apparatus displays the objects according to the type of authentication and the valid period see numeral . The type of authentication refers to thumb fingerprint recognition or index finger fingerprint recognition among fingerprint recognition passwords lock patterns iris recognition or the like. The valid period refers to the time period for which access to the object is approved by the authentication information. The valid period may vary with the type of authentication or the objects. The valid period may be configured by the user or may be automatically configured by the electronic apparatus according to the type of authentication or the objects. The electronic apparatus may request re authentication before the valid period expires. The electronic apparatus pairs the authentication information of iris recognition with the object music and configures the valid period to be 30 minutes see numeral . With the authentication information of iris recognition paired with the object music the electronic apparatus retrieves the object videos that has identical or similar properties to the object music. The electronic apparatus makes a group of the objects music and videos and pairs the authentication information of iris recognition with the objects included in the group.

Then the electronic apparatus gives priority to the groups on the basis of the properties of the objects in the groups and differentially pairs the authentication information with the objects again according to the priority. For example a high priority group may be paired with the authentication information that requires higher accuracy for authentication. Photos and contact lists tend to include more pieces of private information than music so the object properties of the photos or the contact lists may have higher priority than that of music. The electronic apparatus may give higher priority to the group including more pieces of private information on the basis of the properties of the object in the group. With regard to user authentication fingerprint recognition may be more accurate than passwords or lock patterns and iris recognition may be more accurate than fingerprint recognition. The electronic apparatus effectively manages the authentication information by differentially pairing the authentication information with the objects in order of priority.

According to an embodiment of the present invention as the touch input on the valid period moves in a predetermined direction the electronic apparatus changes the valid period.

Referring to when the touch input on the valid period related to the authentication information iris recognition moves in the first direction D see numeral the electronic apparatus extends the valid period. In this case the first direction Dmay denote that the touch input moves up down to the left or to the right. The electronic apparatus may extend the valid period to an extent of a reference time. If the touch input on the valid period related to the authentication information iris recognition moves in the first direction the electronic apparatus extends the valid period from 30 seconds to 75 seconds see numeral . Then the reference time may be 35 seconds. For example the reference time may be configured by the electronic apparatus as a default or by the user.

Referring to when the touch input on the valid period moves in a second direction see numeral the electronic apparatus reduces or deletes the valid period. In this case the first direction may be opposite to the second direction. For example the first direction may be right and the second direction may be left. Alternatively the first direction may be up and the second direction may be down. If the touch input on the valid period related to the authentication information iris recognition moves in the second direction the electronic apparatus reduces the valid period from 30 seconds to 10 seconds. After reducing the valid period the electronic apparatus may delete the authentication information according to the following touch input see numeral . For example if the touch input moves in the second direction a second time moves in a third direction or if the touch input remains in place for a significant period of rime e.g. more than 2 seconds on the valid period the electronic apparatus determines the touch input as a request for deleting the authentication information and deletes the authentication information related to the valid period.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic apparatus terminates the object related to the deleted authentication information. For example if the authentication information is deleted during the execution of the object or while the object is in the idle state the electronic apparatus forces the object to be terminated. Alternatively the electronic apparatus may unlock other objects related to the deleted authentication information. That is in the case where one or more objects are paired with the authentication information if the authentication information is deleted the electronic apparatus may unlock other objects that match the deleted authentication information. The electronic apparatus may replace the authentication information of the object with another piece of authentication information. When the authentication information is deleted the object matching with the deleted authentication information may be released from the locked state to be freely accessed. In this case the electronic apparatus may replace the authentication information of the object related to the deleted authentication information with another piece of authentication information in order to prevent an invasion of privacy and information leakage.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic apparatus executes the object that matches the authentication information and counts the execution time of the object. If the counted execution time is within the valid period the electronic apparatus may request re authentication.

Referring to when the object of the Internet corresponding to the authentication of fingerprint recognition is executed the electronic apparatus counts the execution time of the object. In this case the electronic apparatus may adopt a timer. If the counted time is within the valid period the electronic apparatus may request re authentication see numeral . For example in requesting the re authentication the electronic apparatus may display the authentication information of fingerprint recognition related to the object of the Internet. The electronic apparatus performs re authentication by the same authentication information see numeral .

Referring to the electronic apparatus displays the authentication information of fingerprint recognition related to the executed or running object of the Internet and requests re authentication see numeral . In this case the electronic apparatus performs re authentication via a predetermined authentication module see numeral . That is the electronic apparatus may perform the re authentication using new authentication information. For example in the case where the last authentication information was fingerprint authentication the new authentication information may be iris recognition. A new pop up window is provided to replace the fingerprint recognition of the current window which is removed but this may be very tiresome for the user. However since the iris recognition only requires the camera module without a new pop up window it may be more convenient than fingerprint recognition. Accordingly in order to enhance user convenience the electronic apparatus performs iris recognition via the camera module to perform re authentication.

According to an embodiment of the present invention if authentication fails the electronic apparatus terminates the running object or provides transformed information on the object.

Referring to in executing the object of camera application or photos the electronic apparatus performs a matching operation of the authentication information see numeral . The electronic apparatus shows that the object is locked by the fingerprint recognition and the iris recognition see numeral . Alternatively the electronic apparatus may show that the object is locked by the iris recognition see numeral .

Referring to if the initial authentication information is no longer valid or if the re authentication fails the electronic apparatus terminates the object that has been requested or that is in progress or provides transformed information on the object see numerals and . The transformed information may be the information in which the original object is transformed or may be new information. The electronic apparatus displays an available authentication type e.g. iris recognition or fingerprint recognition which can be authenticated by the transformed information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic apparatus displays the images related to the object together with the authentication information related to the object so that the user can easily identify the authentication information corresponding to each object.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic apparatus identifies the valid period of the authentication information matching the executed object and requests the re authentication before the valid period expires to thereby effectively control access to the object.

Referring to the electronic device includes at least one Application Processor AP a communication module at least one Subscriber Identity Module SIM card slot   to  N a memory a sensor module an input device a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP drives an operating system or an application program to control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP and performs processing and operations of various data including multimedia data. The AP for example may be implemented as a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP may further include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface performs data transmission reception in communication with other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device and the server connected to the electronic device e.g. the electronic device via a network. According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication module may include a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice call a video call an SMS service an Internet service and the like via a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . Also the cellular module identifies and authenticates an electronic device in a communication network by using for example a SIM card. According to an embodiment of the present invention the cellular module performs at least some of the functions that may be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Further the cellular module for example may be implemented as a SoC. Although the cellular module e.g. a CP the memory the power management module and the like are shown as separate elements from the AP in the AP may be implemented to include at least some e.g. the cellular module of the aforementioned elements according to an embodiment of the present invention.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP or the cellular module e.g. a CP loads a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other elements connected thereto into a volatile memory and processes the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the cellular module stores data received from or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module for example may include a processor for processing data transmitted or received via the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are shown as separate blocks in at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Circuit IC or one IC package according to an embodiment of the present invention. For example at least some processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module respectively e.g. a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module performs data transmission reception for example RF signal transmission reception. The RF module for example may include a transceiver a Power Amplifier Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and the like. Also the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave over the air in wireless communication such as a conductor or a conducting wire. Although shows that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may perform RF signal transmission reception via a separate RF module according to an embodiment of the present invention.

The at least one SIM card   to  N may be a card including a Subscriber Identification Module and may be inserted into at least one slot   to  N formed in a location in the electronic device . The at least one SIM card   to  N may include unique identification information e.g. Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory for example includes at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM or a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory or an NOR flash memory .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF drive a Secure Digital SD memory card a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD memory card a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD memory card an extreme Digital xD memory card or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device via various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information into an electrical signal. The sensor module for example may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a Red Green and Blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K and an UltraViolet UV light sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module for example may include an Electronic nose E nose sensor an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor an InfraRed IR sensor an iris scanner and or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel that recognizes a touch input for example may include at least one of a capacitive touch panel a resistive touch panel an infrared touch panel and an acoustic wave touch panel. Also the touch panel may further include a control circuit. When the touch panel is a capacitive touch panel it may recognize physical contact or proximity contact. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor for example may be implemented using a means identical or similar to a means for receiving a touch input from a user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key for example may include a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input unit is a unit that can identify data by generating an ultrasonic signal via an input tool and detecting a sonic wave via a microphone e.g. the microphone in the electronic device and is capable of wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device may also receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected thereto by using the communication module .

The display module e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram unit or a projector . The panel for example may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel for example may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may also be incorporated into one module together with the touch panel . The hologram unit may show a stereoscopic image in the air by using light interference. The projector may display an image by projecting light onto a screen. The screen for example may be located internally or externally to the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present invention the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram unit or the projector .

The interface for example may include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub connector . The interface for example may be included in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface for example may include a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card MultiMedia Card MMC interface or an InfraRed Data Association IrDA interface.

The audio module provides bidirectional conversion between a sound and an electrical signal. At least some elements of the audio module for example may be included in the input output interface shown in . The audio module for example may process sound information input or output via a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone .

The camera module is a device that can take both still and moving images and according to an embodiment of the present invention may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor not shown a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash e.g. a Light Emitting Diode LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module manages power of the electronic device . The power management module for example may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery gauge.

The PMIC for example may be mounted in an IC or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent an overvoltage or excess current from being induced or flowing from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present invention the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging. Examples of the wireless charging include magnetic resonance charging magnetic induction charging and electromagnetic charging and an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit and a rectifier may be added for the wireless charging.

The battery gauge for example may measure the residual capacity charge in voltage current or temperature of the battery . The battery stores or generates electricity and supplies power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery for example may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator displays status of the electronic device or a part thereof e.g. the AP for example a boot up status a message status or a charging status. The motor converts an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. The electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting a mobile TV may process media data pursuant to a standard for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according to the present invention may be formed by one or more components and the names of the corresponding elements may vary according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to the present invention may include at least one of the above described elements and may exclude some of the elements or further include other additional elements. Further some of the elements of the electronic device according to the present invention may be coupled to form a single entity while performing the same functions as those of the corresponding elements before the coupling.

The embodiments disclosed in the present specifications and drawings were provided merely to readily describe and to facilitate a thorough understanding of the present invention but are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Therefore it should be construed that all modifications or modified forms drawn by the technical idea of the present invention in addition to the embodiments disclosed herein are included in the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

