---

title: Content sequence technology
abstract: Content sequence technology, in which a channel subscribed to by a user of a content delivery network is identified and a genre of the identified channel is determined. A play sequence policy is selected for the identified channel based on the determined genre. The play sequence policy defines one or more rules used in determining an order to play content files on the identified channel. Display of the identified channel is controlled based on the selected play sequence policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288522&OS=09288522&RS=09288522
owner: PurpleComm Inc.
number: 09288522
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150406
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 846 004 filed Mar. 18 2013 now allowed which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 795 270 filed Jun. 7 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 402 495 issued Mar. 19 2013. The disclosures of the prior applications are considered part of and are incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this application.

Content viewers today are exposed to an overwhelming amount of information and are challenged by the degree of interaction and personalization needed to manage this massive amount of information. In an era of digital communications a user may be confused by an array of technology including traditional analog televisions DVRs Digital Video Recorders PVRs Personal Video Recorders media centers EPG Electronic Program Guide based systems Internet related content and traditional remote control devices.

In one aspect a method of controlling sequence of content included in a channel includes identifying a channel subscribed to by a user of a content delivery network determining a genre of the identified channel and selecting from among multiple different play sequence policies a play sequence policy for the identified channel based on the determined genre of the identified channel. The play sequence policy defines one or more rules used in determining an order to play content files on the identified channel. The method also includes controlling display of the identified channel based on the selected play sequence policy.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may include selecting a latest content policy defining a rule that content files that have been available for a relatively short period of time are played prior to content files that have been available for a relatively long period of time. The method also may include an oldest content policy defining a rule that content files that have been available for a relatively long period of time are played prior to content files that have been available for a relatively short period of time. The method further may include selecting an oldest download policy defining a rule that content files that have been downloaded to a downloader device for a relatively long period of time are played prior to content files that have been downloaded to the downloader device for a relatively short period of time.

In some implementations the method may include determining a genre from among a news genre a television show genre and a movies genre. In these implementations the method may include selecting a latest content policy when the determined genre is the news genre. The latest content policy may define a rule that news programs that have been available for a relatively short period of time are played prior to news programs that have been available for a relatively long period of time. The method also may include selecting an oldest content policy when the determined genre is the television show genre. The oldest content policy may define a rule that television shows that have been available for a relatively long period of time are played prior to television shows that have been available for a relatively short period of time. The method further may include selecting an oldest download policy when the determined genre is the movies genre. The oldest download policy may define a rule that movies that have been downloaded to a downloader device for a relatively long period of time are played prior to movies that have been downloaded to the downloader device for a relatively short period of time.

In some examples the method may include receiving from a content curator input defining a particular play sequence policy for a particular channel and accessing for a user that subscribes to the particular channel user profile data that defines play sequence preferences of the user. In these examples the method may include comparing the particular play sequence policy defined for the particular channel by the content curator to the play sequence preferences of the user and determining a user play sequence policy for the user for the particular channel based on the comparison.

In addition the method may include modifying the particular play sequence policy defined for the particular channel by the content curator when the comparison reveals that the play sequence preferences of the user differ from the particular play sequence policy. The method also may include determining a user play sequence policy for the user for the particular channel using the play sequence preferences of the user and breaking ties in the determined user play sequence policy based on the particular play sequence policy defined for the particular channel by the content curator.

In some implementations the method may include accessing for the user that subscribes to the particular channel user profile data that includes play sequence preferences defined by the user and default play sequence settings automatically set for the user and comparing the particular play sequence policy defined for the particular channel by the content curator to the play sequence preferences defined by the user and the default play sequence settings automatically set for the user. In these implementations the method may include identifying one or more instances in which the comparison reveals that the play sequence preferences defined by the user differ from the particular play sequence policy and identifying one or more instances in which the comparison reveals that the default play sequence settings automatically set for the user differ from the particular play sequence policy. Further in these implementations the method may include modifying the particular play sequence policy based on the play sequence preferences defined by the user for the one or more instances in which the comparison reveals that the play sequence preferences defined by the user differ from the particular play sequence policy and maintaining the particular play sequence policy for the one or more instances in which the comparison reveals that the default play sequence settings automatically set for the user differ from the particular play sequence policy.

In some examples the method may include determining a play sequence for the identified channel for the user using the selected play sequence policy receiving from the user input defining one or more play sequence modifications for the identified channel for the user modifying the play sequence determined using the selected play sequence policy based on the input received from the user defining the one or more play sequence modifications and controlling display of the identified channel based on the modified play sequence. In these examples the method may include receiving from the user input rearranging an order of content files included in the identified channel and changing the play sequence determined using the selected play sequence policy to reflect the rearranged order of content files included in the identified channel.

The method may include monitoring play sequence changes made by a user over time by genre and based on the monitoring tracking data descriptive of the play sequence changes made by the user over time by genre. The method also may include inferring play sequence preferences for the user by genre based on the tracked data descriptive of the play sequence changes made by the user over time by genre and controlling at least one play sequence policy for the user based on the inferred play sequence preferences.

In some examples the method may include identifying a particular play sequence policy defined for the user for a particular genre and comparing the particular play sequence policy defined for the user for the particular genre with the inferred play sequence preferences for the user for the particular genre. In these examples the method may include based on the comparison determining whether the particular play sequence policy defined for the user for the particular genre corresponds to the inferred play sequence preferences for the user for the particular genre and in response to a determination that the particular play sequence policy defined for the user for the particular genre does not correspond to the inferred play sequence preferences for the user for the particular genre suggesting that the user change the particular play sequence policy defined for the user for the particular genre to a different play sequence policy that corresponds to the inferred play sequence preferences for the user for the particular genre.

In some implementations the method may include identifying a particular play sequence policy defined for the user for a particular genre and comparing the particular play sequence policy defined for the user for the particular genre with the inferred play sequence preferences for the user for the particular genre. In these implementations the method may include based on the comparison determining whether the particular play sequence policy defined for the user for the particular genre corresponds to the inferred play sequence preferences for the user for the particular genre and in response to a determination that the particular play sequence policy defined for the user for the particular genre does not correspond to the inferred play sequence preferences for the user for the particular genre automatically without user intervention changing the particular play sequence policy defined for the user for the particular genre to a different play sequence policy that corresponds to the inferred play sequence preferences for the user for the particular genre.

Further the method may include tracking changes the user makes to order of content files included in channels that correspond to a particular genre and comparing the changes the user makes to order of content files included in channels that correspond to the particular genre with multiple play sequence policies. The method also may include based on the comparison determining whether the changes the user makes to order of content files included in channels that correspond to the particular genre correspond to a particular play sequence policy included in the multiple play sequence policies and inferring that the user prefers the particular play sequence policy for the particular genre in response to a determination that the changes the user makes to order of content files included in channels that correspond to the particular genre correspond to the particular play sequence policy.

In some examples the method may include analyzing attributes of content files included in the identified channel with respect to the one or more rules defined by the selected play sequence policy and determining an order for playing the content files included in the identified channel based on the analysis of the attributes of content files included in the identified channel with respect to the one or more rules defined by the selected play sequence policy. In these examples the method may include displaying an interface that includes representations of the content files included in the identified channel arranged in the determined order.

In some implementations the method may include receiving a command to play the identified channel on a media device associated with the user and analyzing attributes of content files included in the identified channel with respect to the one or more rules defined by the selected play sequence policy. In these implementations the method may include in response to receiving the command to play the identified channel on the media device associated with the user selecting from among the content files included in the identified channel a first content file included in the identified channel to play on the media device associated with the user based on the analysis of the attributes of the content files included in the identified channel with respect to the one or more rules defined by the selected play sequence policy and initiating playing of the first content file on the media device associated with the user. Further in these implementations the method may include detecting ending of the first content file on the media device associated with the user and in response to detecting ending of the first content file on the media device associated with the user selecting from among the content files included in the identified channel a next content file included in the identified channel to play on the media device associated with the user based on an analysis of attributes of the content files included in the identified channel with respect to the one or more rules defined by the selected play sequence policy and automatically without human intervention initiating playing of the next content file on the media device associated with the user after playing of the first content file on the media device associated with the user ends.

In another aspect a system includes at least one computer and at least one computer readable medium coupled to the at least one computer having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the at least one computer causes the at least one computer to perform operations. The operations include identifying a channel subscribed to by a user of a content delivery network determining a genre of the identified channel and selecting from among multiple different play sequence policies a play sequence policy for the identified channel based on the determined genre of the identified channel. The play sequence policy defines one or more rules used in determining an order to play content files on the identified channel. The operations also include controlling display of the identified channel based on the selected play sequence policy.

In yet another aspect at least one computer readable storage medium is encoded with at least one computer program comprising instructions that when executed operate to cause a computer to perform operations. The operations include identifying a channel subscribed to by a user of a content delivery network determining a genre of the identified channel and selecting from among multiple different play sequence policies a play sequence policy for the identified channel based on the determined genre of the identified channel. The play sequence policy defines one or more rules used in determining an order to play content files on the identified channel. The operations also include controlling display of the identified channel based on the selected play sequence policy.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Multiple types of content such as audio e.g. music podcasts video and still images e.g. photographs may be made available over the content delivery network . Licensed and license free content may be made available. For example licensed content may be acquired from a content owner .

Content may be made available from a variety of sources. For example Internet content may be accessed from an Internet link e.g. URL Uniform Resource Locator . Content may also be accessed from peer to peer networks. For example content may be accessed from one or more BitTorrent clients which are part of one or more BitTorrent swarms . Content may be accessed from other sources such as from a television broadcast e.g. MSO Multiple System Operator cable satellite local or from content e.g. photographs audio previously recorded video available from devices e.g. DVR stereo computer DVD Digital Video Disc player connected to a user s home network and or located in a user s home.

Content curators may use a content curator portal to define custom channels which may be made available for subscription by end users . The content curators may be commissioned to search for select and organize multiple types of content from various sources into channels. Content curators may for example organize channels by topic or genre. Content curators may for example select licensed content license free content BitTorrent content or content from their private collection to name a few examples.

Channels may be offered for free to end users or end users may subscribe to channels on a fee basis. Users may rate or rank channels or content curators based for example on programming selection sequencing and quality. Content curators may be promoted for example based on popularity.

Content owners may be compensated for the use of licensed content that they own which is used in channels defined by content curators . For example the system may provide support for digital rights management DRM . By allowing access to their licensed content content owners may experience increased distribution and revenue and targeted exposure in focused channels. Multiple revenue agreements may be possible such as per use agreements subscription revenue sharing and advertisement revenue sharing.

A content curator may work with one or more advertisers such as an ad agency to include advertisements on a channel. For example an advertisement may be displayed if a user switches a channel or when a program finishes. As another example advertisements may be displayed on the display of a remote control device such as while a program is being displayed on a television. Content curators advertisers and content owners may share advertising revenue. Sharing in advertising revenue may provide an incentive for content curators to create interesting and popular channels. A content curator may work with one or more advertisers to create one or more advertisements which are customized and targeted for one or more particular channels. End users may customize advertisement viewing preferences such as by specifying preferred topics preferred or excluded companies region preferences etc.

Advertisers may use an advertiser portal to upload advertisements and to control advertisement publication. Advertisers may define and apply advertisement insertion rules to particular advertisements and or may allow a content curator to decide when and how to insert the advertisements into channels defined by the content curator . APIs Application Programming Interfaces may be provided which allow advertisers to enable the system to interface with standard advertisement inventory management systems to allow for control and management of advertisements . Various advertisement pricing plans may be supported such as individually priced ads or bulk pricing. Other advertising features may be included such as online purchasing of items or providing customer contact options.

Advertisers content curators and content owners may access user viewing behavior data. Advertisers may access user viewing behavior data such as viewed channels viewed content viewed advertisements advertisement display frequency advertisement viewed length user actions during advertisement display user characteristics advertisement and content view times advertisement and content view counts and hosting channel information to monitor reach and performance of advertising campaigns. Advertisements may be targeted to specific users based on recorded user viewing behavior data. Content curators may access user viewing behavior data to learn about behaviors of end users who subscribe to their channels. Content owners may access user viewing behavior data to learn about their fan base such as accessing information about user demographics time of day of access and user actions during content display. Content presentation and playback may be customized and personalized for a particular end user based specifically on recorded user viewing behavior of the particular end user and generally on recorded user viewing behavior of all users.

User viewing behavior data may be captured for example by a media player and or a downloader device . The media player and or the downloader device may play content included or ordered on a channel defined by a content curator . In some implementations the media player may play content downloaded from the content delivery network by the downloader device . In some implementations the media player and the downloader device are different logical functions of the same physical device. In other implementations the media player and the downloader device are different physical devices. In some implementations the media player is a software application which may be executed for example on a computing device such as a desktop or laptop computer.

The media player and or the downloader device may be connected to external media storage devices respectively. The external media storage devices may be for example USB Universal Serial Bus drives. The external media storage devices may be used for example to transfer data to from the media player or the downloader device respectively such as to transfer data to from a computing device.

The media player and or the downloader device may communicate wirelessly with one or more remote control devices . The end user may navigate through channels and perform other functions using the remote control device . The remote control device may communicate e.g. using Infrared IR technology of radio frequency RF technology with the television the media player and or the downloader device . The remote control device also may communicate over a network with the media player and or the downloader device to control functions of the media player or the downloader device . The remote control device may include a small display screen that displays preview content and or advertisements.

The media player and or the downloader device may download content from the content delivery network without consuming resources of a computing device owned by the end user . For example content may be downloaded into the home of an end user without using resources of a personal computer owned by the end user . The media player and the downloader device may use less electricity than a personal computer thus reducing the electric bill of the end user . The media player and or the downloader device may connect to other computing devices connected on a user s home network. The media player and or the downloader device may include built in functionality to communicate with and download information from a peer to peer network such as the BitTorrent swarm .

The end user may search for and subscribe to content using an end user content search portal . For example the end user content search portal may provide a directory listing of available defined channels. The directory listing may be organized in a hierarchy of categories and sub categories. A particular channel may appear in one or more categories or sub categories. The end user content search portal may also provide a search function to allow end users to search for available defined channels based on a keyword search. As another example users may search for channels based on other criteria such as sorting channels based on channel or content curator popularity or ranking. An end user may subscribe to a defined channel for example by selecting a channel link displayed in a directory listing or in a list of search results.

The end user may also search for and initiate download of individual content items to the downloader device using a partner site such as a BitTorrent search engine . As another example the end user may send an email which includes a content link to an email address associated with their downloader device to initiate an automatic download to the downloader device of the content linked to by the content link. The content link may refer to a content file available on the Internet and may be a reference to a video resource available from a streaming video website. The end user may send an email with an attachment to an email address associated with the downloader device to initiate a download of the attachment to the downloader device . The end user may use an end user content download portal to search for and to select content to download to the downloader device .

The content and directory database stores information about content and also information about defined channels. Content curators may use a content curator portal to define channels and to manage defined channels. The content curator portal may display a listing of licensed and license free content available in the content and directory database . The content curator portal may also provide a search function which allows the content curator to search for content available in the content and directory database and to also search for content included in the private collection of the content curator or content available on the Internet such as content available from peer to peer networks such as BitTorrent .

The content curator portal may communicate with a content curator server . For example a channel definition defined using the content curator portal may be sent to the content curator server which may communicate with the server system to request that the channel definition be stored in the content and directory database . As another example information for existing channel definitions associated with a particular content curator may be retrieved from the content and directory database and sent from the content curator portal server to the content curator portal for display.

In some implementations the content curator portal server is one physical server computing device and in other implementations the content curator portal server includes multiple physical server computing devices. Similarly in some implementations the server system is one physical server computing device and in other implementations the server system includes multiple physical server computing devices. In some implementations multiple physical server computing devices are used with some or all server computing devices implementing both the content curator portal server and the server system . In some implementations one physical server computing device is used with the one physical server device implementing both the content curator portal server and the server system .

The network may be one or more public or private wired or wireless networks such as the Internet or may be a Session Initiated Protocol SIP network such as the PsipTN network offered by TelTel . The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data services. The network may include multiple networks or subnetworks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway.

Content may be downloaded to one or more user media player downloader devices . For example content corresponding to a user subscribed channel may be automatically downloaded to the media player downloader device in response to a user selection of a corresponding channel. As another example a user may search for and download content to the media player downloader device . A user may using a remote user device monitor and manage user initiated downloads. The remote user device may be any type of electronic device configured to exchange communications with the server system over a network. The remote user device may be a general purpose computer e.g. a desktop personal computer a workstation or a laptop computer a mobile or wireless device or a device designed for a specific function e.g. a cell phone a smart phone a tablet PC a personal digital assistant PDA etc. .

The system identifies a channel subscribed to by a user of a content delivery network . For example a channel may be identified in response to a user selecting a channel. A user may select a channel for example by pressing a button on a remote control device to indicate a channel number e.g. 3 corresponding to a selected channel. A user may select a channel to watch the channel or the user may select the channel to perform some other action such as to view information about the channel or to configure the channel. The user may select a channel from a list of subscribed channels. A user may select a channel on a user interface displayed on a television screen e.g. the same screen that the user uses to view content or the user may select a channel e.g. to configure the channel on a user interface displayed on a computing device e.g. a display device may display an end user portal user interface which allows the user to configure subscribed channels .

For example illustrates a user interface which includes a channel list area . The channel list area includes channel areas which correspond to for example a nature channel Ch a relaxation channel Ch an animation channel Ch a history channel Ch a movie channel Ch and a miscellaneous channel Ch respectively. Each channel area includes a list of content representations. For example the channel area includes content representations . As will be described in more detail below the user may use the user interface to configure a channel such as to change the presentation order of content items within a channel.

The system may identify a channel if the channel appears in a user interface. For example the channel list area may currently be displaying some but not all of the user s subscribed channels e.g. the user may be able to view their other channels by scrolling or by selecting a more actions control . The system may identify those channels which are displayed in the channel list area . The system may also identify a channel if a user selects a channel on a user interface. For example the user may select one of the channel list areas to navigate to a detail view corresponding to the selected channel or the user may implicitly select a channel by selecting a particular content representation e.g. in one of the channel list areas .

Returning to the system determines a genre of the identified channel . A channel s genre may be for example news sports movies entertainment politics etc. A channel may have associated metadata which indicates a genre for the channel. A content curator may define a channel s genre for example using a content curator portal. A genre may be determined in other ways such as by parsing the channel s title or description and comparing words in the title or description to a list of keywords which are each associated with a particular genre e.g. if a channel has sports baseball football NFL National Football League or other sports related words in the title a genre of sports may be determined for the channel.

The system selects from among multiple different play sequence policies a play sequence policy for the identified channel based on the determined genre of the identified channel . A play sequence policy defines one or more rules which control the presentation order of content within a channel. For example illustrates play sequence policies for channels respectively. The channel is a news channel with news content items News to News respectively the channel is a television show channel with television show content items Show ReRun Show Show respectively and the channel is a movie channel with movie content items Movie to Movie respectively . Each of the content items and have associated metadata including among other things a corresponding add date e.g. download date and publication date.

The policy states that the content items for the news channel should be ordered by publication date with the most recently published content items displayed first. For example a content list presented to a user may show the content items in a publication date order of News News News News as illustrated by representations based on the policy . The policy states that the content items for the movie channel should be ordered by download date with the least recently downloaded content items displayed first. For example a content list shows the content items in a download date order of Movie Movie Movie Movie as illustrated by representations based on the policy .

The policy states that the content items for the television show channel should be ordered by publication date with the least recently published content items displayed first with an added condition that reruns should be displayed last. For example reruns may be displayed after non reruns with the reruns sorted together by oldest publication date. A content list shows the content items and in a publication date order of Show Show Show as illustrated by representations . The content item corresponding to the ReRun content is displayed last in the content list as illustrated by representation . If the policy did not include a condition for rerun content the content item would be displayed first in the content list since the content item has the oldest publication date among the content items .

The system may select a play sequence policy from one or more play sequence policies which apply to the identified channel. For example a content curator may define a play sequence policy specifically for the identified channel or a content curator may define a play sequence policy which generally applies to the genre of the identified channel. The user may also define play sequence policies. For example the user may define a play sequence policy for the identified channel or for the genre of the identified channel. As another example a default play sequence policy may be defined for a particular genre if there are no content curator or user policies defined which are applicable to the genre. A default play sequence policy may also be defined for identified channels which do not have an associated genre. The system may compare multiple applicable play sequence policies e.g. download jockey defined policies user defined policies default policies and may select a play sequence policy based on the comparison. Selecting a play sequence policy is described in more detail below with respect to .

Returning to the system controls display of the identified channel based on the selected play sequence policy . For example if the identified channel corresponds to a channel the user has selected for content viewing the system may select a first content file to view based on the selected play sequence policy and upon completion of the first content file may select subsequent content files for viewing based on the selected play sequence policy. If the identified channel corresponds to a channel displayed on a user interface representations of the content files included in the channel may be arranged and displayed on the user interface in an order based on the selected play sequence policy. Controlling the display of the identified channel based on the selected play sequence policy is described in more detail below with respect to .

The system analyzes attributes of content files included in a channel with respect to one or more rules defined by a play sequence policy associated with the channel . For example the system may analyze attributes which have a data type which is comparable such as date character or numeric data types. Attributes can include publication date download date modification date run length content size e.g. as stored on disk and reviewer rating score to name a few examples. An attribute may correspond to a Boolean condition such as whether a content item is a rerun content item or whether a content item is recommended e.g. by a friend or by a content curator .

The system determines an order for playing the content files included in the channel based on the analysis . For example an order may be determined by sorting the content files according to an attribute and a sort direction. For example content items may be sorted by oldest publication date newest publication date oldest download date newest download date longest run length shortest run length largest content size smallest content size highest average reviewer rating score lowest average reviewer rating score etc. Other examples may include ordering non rerun content before rerun content or ordering recommended content before non recommended content.

The system displays an interface that includes representations of the content files included in the channel arranged in the determined order . For example the interface may be displayed. For each of the channel areas representations of content files in a particular channel area may be arranged in the order determined by the play sequence policy. For example the representations for the channel may be arranged in a newest publication date first order.

The system receives a selection of a channel . For example a user may press a button on a remote control device indicating selection of a channel number corresponding to a selected channel. As another example the user may select a representation of the channel e.g. using a pointer or controller or other pointing device or using a gesture on an interface displayed on a display screen.

The system selects a first content file included in the selected channel based on an analysis of attributes of content files included in the selected channel with respect to one or more rules defined by a play sequence policy associated with the selected channel . For example a play sequence policy may define an order of content files based on sorting content files by one or more attributes in a particular sort direction. For example in general content items may be sorted by oldest publication date newest publication date oldest download date newest download date longest run length shortest run length largest content size smallest content size highest average reviewer rating score lowest average reviewer rating score etc. As a particular example if the play sequence policy defines a rule specifying that content is to be watched in order of oldest download date the content file with the oldest download date among content files included in the selected channel may be selected.

The system plays the first content file . For example a media player device may retrieve the first content file e.g. from a downloader device or from electronic storage of the media player and may render the content on a display screen e.g. television screen computer monitor .

The system determines whether a new channel is selected . For example while viewing the first content file the user may select a different channel e.g. using a remote control device . If a new channel is selected the system performs step again e.g. the system selects a first content file included in the selected channel based on an analysis of attributes of content files included in the selected channel with respect to one or more rules defined by a play sequence policy associated with the selected channel .

If a new channel is not selected the system determines whether the end of the first content file has been reached . If the end of the first content file has not been reached the system continues to play the first content file e.g. .

If the end of the first content file has been reached the system selects a next content file included in the selected channel based on an analysis of attributes of content files included in the selected channel with respect to one or more rules defined by a play sequence policy associated with the selected channel . For example if the play sequence policy defines a rule specifying that content is to be watched in order of oldest download date the content file with the second oldest download date among content files included in the selected channel may be selected.

The system plays the next content file . For example a media player device may retrieve the next content file e.g. from a downloader device or from electronic storage of the media player and may render the content on a display screen e.g. television screen computer monitor .

The system determines whether a new channel is selected . For example while viewing the next content file the user may select a different channel e.g. using a remote control device . If a new channel is selected the system performs step again e.g. the system selects a first content file included in the selected channel based on an analysis of attributes of content files included in the selected channel with respect to one or more rules defined by a play sequence policy associated with the selected channel .

If a new channel is not selected the system determines whether the end of the next content file has been reached . If the end of the next content file has not been reached the system continues to play the next content file e.g. .

If the end of the next content file has been reached the system selects a new next content file included in the selected channel based on an analysis of attributes of content files included in the selected channel with respect to one or more rules defined by a play sequence policy associated with the selected channel e.g. . For example if the play sequence policy defines a rule specifying that content is to be watched in order of oldest download date the content file with the third oldest download date among content files included in the selected channel may be selected.

The system receives from a content curator input defining a play sequence policy for a channel . A content curator may for example define a play sequence policy using an interface displayed in a content curator portal. For example illustrates a user interface for defining one or more play sequence policies. The interface may be used for example to define a policy specifically for a particular channel or to define a policy for a genre which may be applicable for channels of that genre. The interface includes a policy area which includes policy controls . The policy controls may be used to define play sequence policies for news television show and movie genres respectively. The policy control may be used to define a play sequence policy applicable for channels which do not have an associated genre.

The content curator may expand a policy control and select a policy rule from a list of available policy rules. For example the content curator may select a sort by latest publication date policy rule using the policy control a sort by oldest publication date rule using the policy control a sort by latest download date rule using the policy control or a sort by oldest download date rule using the policy control . The user interface may include other controls which allow the content curator to define more complex rules such as rules involving multiple criteria e.g. first sort content files by latest download date then order content files so that recommended content files are before non recommended content files .

The content curator may select an add control to add a new area to the interface which may be used for example to add a new policy corresponding to a different genre or a particular channel. The content curator may select a submit control to save the policy settings displayed in the user interface . Policy settings may be saved for example in association with the content curator and in association with a corresponding genre and or channel such as in a content and directory database.

Returning to the system accesses for a user that subscribes to the channel user profile data that defines play sequence preferences of the user . A user may define play sequence preferences using a user interface similar to the interface . A user may for example define play sequence preferences to override a play sequence policy defined by a content curator or to override a default play sequence policy. Some users may not have any user defined play sequence preferences. For some users the user may not have any play sequence preferences which are applicable to the channel e.g. the user may have preferences for a news genre but might not have preferences for a sports genre .

The system compares the play sequence policy defined for the channel by the content curator to the play sequence preferences of the user . For example if there is a content curator play sequence policy applicable to the channel and user play sequence preferences applicable to the channel the system may compare the content curator play sequence policy and the user play sequence preferences. If there are user play preferences applicable to the channel but no download jockey defined play sequence policies applicable to the channel the user play sequence preferences may be compared to a system defined default play sequence policy.

The system determines a play sequence policy for the user for the channel based on the comparison . For example a play sequence preference for a user may override a download jockey defined play sequence policy. As another example if there are no download jockey defined play sequence policies or user defined play sequence preferences applicable to the channel a default play sequence policy may be determined.

A user profile for user one indicates that content files for channels of a movie genre e.g. the channel should be ordered by added date time. In some implementations a user play sequence preference may override a content curator play sequence policy. For example a content list for user one s view of the channel illustrates that Movie e.g. shown as representation which has the oldest added date time among Movie to Movie is presented first e.g. adhering to the preference defined in the user one profile but overriding the content curator play sequence policy . The content list shows e.g. using representations that the order of the remaining content files in added date time order is Movie Movie Movie and Movie respectively.

A default profile indicates that content files for channels of a movie genre e.g. the channel should be ordered by added date time. The default profile may be used for users who do not have a user profile corresponding to a movie genre. The default profile may be compared to the content curator play sequence policy . In some implementations a download jockey defined policy may override a default policy and or preferences defined in a default profile. For example as indicated by representations a content list displaying a default view of the channel displays the content files for the channel in an order of Movie Movie Movie Movie and Movie respectively which matches the order defined by the content curator play sequence policy .

A user profile for user two indicates that content files for channels of a movie genre e.g. channel should be ordered by release date. The ordering by release date defined by the profile may override the rules defined in the content curator play sequence policy and preferences defined in the default profile . For example as illustrated by representations a content list for user two s view of the channel illustrates a release date order of Movie Movie Movie Movie and Movie respectively.

A user may allow their play sequence preferences to be overridden by a content curator play sequence policy. For example users one and two may select controls respectively to allow a content curator play sequence policy e.g. policy to override preferences in a respective user profile e.g. . The controls may be displayed for example in a user interface displayed in a user interface portal which allows a user to define and edit user play sequence preferences.

In some situations ordering of content for a user may be based on a combination of rules defined in a play sequence policy and in a user s profile. For example if there is an ordering placement tie between two content files based on a user s play sequence preferences the tie may be broken by referring to a content curator s play sequence policy to determine whether the content curator s play sequence policy indicates that one content file should be ordered before the other content file. For example when attempting to order the Movie and Movie content files for user two based on the user profile there is a tie since each movie has a release date of the year two thousand four. The content curator play sequence policy may be accessed to determine for user two whether Movie should be played before or after Movie . The condition in the content curator play sequence policy specifying that Movie should be played first may be used to determine that Movie should be played before Movie .

The system determines a play sequence for a channel subscribed to by a user using a play sequence policy . For example the system may select a play sequence policy defined by a content curator for the channel or for the genre of the channel. The system may also determine the play sequence based on a user s stored play sequence preferences.

The system receives from the user input defining a play sequence for the channel subscribed to by the user . For example the user may define a play sequence using a user interface. The user interface may display representations of the content files included in the channel with an initial arrangement matching an order determined by the play sequence policy. For example the user interface displays representations which represent content files for a Ch channel. The user may reorder the content files to define a new play sequence. For example the user may select a representation and drag and drop it to a different location. For example the user may select the representation drag it so that it is between the representations and and drop it which may result in the moving of the representation so that it is between the representations and

The user may scroll to see additional content file representations using scroll buttons . The user may delete a content file from their view of the channel by selecting a representation and selecting a delete control . The user may save their changes to the play sequence by selecting a save control .

Returning to the system modifies the play sequence determined using the play sequence policy based on the input received from the user . For example the play sequence defined by the user may be stored in a database in association with the user.

The system controls display of the channel based on the modified play sequence . For example the next time the user uses the interface the order of the content representations for the channel e.g. may appear in an order corresponding to the modified play sequence. As another example if the user watches the channel content may be presented on the channel in an order corresponding to the modified play sequence.

The system monitors play sequence changes made by a user over time by genre . For example the system may monitor play sequences changes made by a user using the interface . As another example the system may monitor the user s changes to play sequences preferences of the user s profile. The system may monitor other changes such as a user s sorting actions performed on other views of the content for a channel e.g. a content list displayed on a television screen .

The system tracks data descriptive of play sequence changes made by the user by genre based on the monitoring . For example the system may store in a database in association with the user data descriptive of play sequence changes made by the user using the interface or data descriptive of changes made to play sequence preferences of the user s profile organized by genre.

The system infers play sequence preferences for the user by genre based on the tracked data descriptive of play sequence changes made by the user . For example illustrates tracked data descriptive of play sequence changes made by a user. The tracked data indicates that the user typically does not change the play sequence for channels of a news genre that the user typically sorts television show content by oldest publication date and that the user typically sorts movie content by latest release date.

The system may also infer play sequence preferences based on tracked data descriptive of changes the user made to the order of content files included in channels that correspond to a particular genre. For example the system may compare the changes the user makes to the order of content files included in channels of a particular genre with multiple play sequence policies. The system may determine based on the comparison that the changes the user made to the order of the content files correspond to a particular play sequence policy and may consequently infer that the user prefers the particular play sequence policy.

Returning to the system controls at least one play sequence policy for the user based on the inferred play sequence preferences . For instance in the example of a play sequence policy may be modified based on the inferred user preferences of sorting television show content by oldest publication date and sorting movie content by latest release date. The modifications to the user play sequence policy may be based on whether the inferred play sequence preferences differ from preferences stored in a default play sequence policy . For example the inferred play sequence preference of sorting television show content by oldest publication date matches a corresponding preference in the default play sequence policy . However the inferred play sequence preference of sorting movies by latest release date is different than the preference stored in the default play sequence policy of sorting movie content by download date. Therefore the user play sequence policy is controlled to include a preference of sorting movie content by latest release date to correspond to the inferred preference for the user.

In some implementations a play sequence policy defined for a user is automatically changed without human intervention to a different play sequence policy that corresponds to the inferred play sequence preferences. In other implementations a user may be prompted before a play sequence policy for the user is controlled based on inferred play sequence preferences. For example illustrates a user interface which informs the user that they tend to order content files in the movie genre by latest release date and that the default setting is to sort content files in the movie genre by download date. The user may select a change control to change their default setting e.g. in a play sequence policy for the user to sort movie content by latest release date. The user may select a cancel control to dismiss the user interface without changes being made to their play sequence policy. The user may select a stop tracking control to stop the tracking of play sequence changes by the user. In some implementations all tracking for the user is stopped and in other implementations only the tracking corresponding to the displayed message is stopped. In some implementations the user may be able to specify whether all tracking or whether only the tracking corresponding to the displayed message is stopped.

The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . In one implementation the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

