---

title: Sharing document information
abstract: The disclosure of the present document can be embodied in a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that cause one or more processors to perform various operations, including, receiving, from a first client device associated with a user account of a first user, a request for sharing a document. The document is associated with a credential of the first user, and the credential is associated with the user account of the first user. The operations include transmitting, in response to the request, a code associated with the document, and receiving, from a second client device, a request to access the document. The request to access the document includes the code associated with the document. The operations include determining, based on the request to access the document, that the second client device is authorized to access the document, and communicating, to the second client device, a message including information about the document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565175&OS=09565175&RS=09565175
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09565175
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150116
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 928 068 filed on Jan. 16 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein.

A server may be used to store files e.g. electronic documents that are associated with user accounts.

In one aspect the disclosure features a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions executable by one or more processors which upon such execution cause the one or more processors to perform various operations. The operations include receiving from a first client device associated with a user account of a first user a request for sharing a document. The document is associated with a credential of the first user and the credential is associated with the user account of the first user. The operations also include transmitting in response to the request a code associated with the document to the first client device and receiving from a second client device a request to access the document the request to access the document including the code associated with the document. The operations further include determining based on the request to access the document that the second client device is authorized to access the document and communicating to the second client device a message including information about the document.

In another aspect the disclosure features a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions executable by one or more processors which upon such execution cause the one or more processors to perform various operations including receiving from a first client device associated with a user account of a first user a request for sharing a document. The document is associated with a credential of the first user and the credential is associated with the user account of the first user. The operations also include transmitting in response to the request an alphanumeric code associated with the document to the first client device and receiving from a second client device a request to access the document the request to access the document including the alphanumeric code associated with the document. The operations also include determining based on the request to access the document that the second client device is authorized to access the document and that the request to access the document was transmitted from the second client device as a short messaging service SMS message. The operations further include communicating to the second client device an SMS message including text based information about the document based on determining that the request to access the document was transmitted from the second client device as an SMS message.

In another aspect the disclosure features a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions executable by one or more processors which upon such execution cause the one or more processors to perform various operations including receiving from a first client device associated with a user account of a first user a request for sharing a document. The document is associated with a credential of the first user and the credential is associated with the user account of the first user. The operations also include transmitting in response to the request a Quick Response QR code associated with the document to the first client device and receiving from a second client device a request to access the document the request to access the document being based on the QR code associated with the document. The operations also include determining based on the request to access the document that the second client device is authorized to access the document and that the request to access the document was transmitted from the second client device as a multimedia messaging service MMS message. The operations further include communicating to the second client device an MMS message including text based information about the document based on determining that the request to access the document was transmitted from the second client device as an MMS message.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. The document can include a certification. The certification can be based on metadata associated with the document. The certification can include a digital signature of the first user. The code can be transmitted to the first client device or the second client device. The code can be transmitted using a short messaging service SMS protocol or a multimedia messaging service MMS protocol or e mail. The request for sharing the document can include an identification of the second client device. The request to access the document can include a portion of the document and the operations can further include obtaining the document from a storage device and determining that the portion of the document from the request to access the document matches a corresponding portion of the document obtained from the storage device. The determination can be done prior to communicating to the second client device the message including information about the document. The code associated with the document can include one or more of a Quick Response QR code a sound wave based code a numeric code an alphanumeric code and a uniform resource locator URL . The request to access the document can be received from the second client device via a short messaging service SMS gateway or a multimedia messaging service MMS gateway. The message can include one or more of metadata information associated with the document a uniform resource locator URL for accessing the document and an image of the document. The message can be communicated via a short messaging service SMS gateway or a multimedia messaging service MMS gateway. The request to access the document can include an identification of the second client device. Communicating the message can further include verifying that the second client device is associated with a user account of a second user and verifying that the user account of the second user is authorized to access the document.

Implementations of the above techniques include a method a computer program product and a system. The computer program product is suitably embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium and includes instructions executable by one or more processors. The instructions are configured to cause the one or more processors to perform the above described actions.

The system includes one or more processors and instructions embedded in a non transitory computer readable medium that are executable by the one or more processors. The instructions when executed are configured to cause the one or more processors to perform the above described actions.

The details of one or more aspects of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

An identity management application may allow a credentialed user to store and retrieve electronic files on a server. The identity management application also may provide a credentialed user with file access codes that are associated with stored electronic files. Such a file access code can be transferred to other users e.g. via Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS or Bluetooth with whom the credentialed user wishes to share a corresponding electronic file. Even where the recipient only has a feature phone the recipient may be able to access the electronic file or information about the electronic file by transmitting the file access code to a gateway that responsive to receiving the code may return various details about the electronic file e.g. title author signatory signature date and or a link to the file and or the electronic file itself.

In this context an electronic file may be any software file that includes data and can be stored in electronic form in tangible storage media such as computer memory or hard drives. For example the electronic file may be a textual document a graphical document an audio file a video file or a multimedia file among other file types. Electronic files may be managed by a server or collection of servers. The electronic files may also be stored on the client devices or on a server with which the client devices can communicate. The server may include user accounts for the users of the client devices and associate the electronic files with user accounts corresponding to the owners of the electronic files. In some implementations a trusted repository of documents and or other files can be established by stamping documents with metadata. The metadata can include for example time stamps identifications of persons who have signed the documents and access history. In some implementations users may communicate with the server using instances of an identity management application that runs on their respective client devices. The identity management application can be used to for example view sign or otherwise edit documents share documents with other users and view documents shared by other users.

In some implementations a document or information about a document that has been shared by another user may be accessed and or viewed using a messaging based system such as a short messaging service SMS or a multimedia messaging service MMS using for example a code associated with the document. In some implementations such a code received over the messaging system can be forwarded by a recipient to a gateway e.g. via an SMS message if the code is an alphanumeric code or via an MMS message if the code is a QR code . The gateway can be configured to interface with a server to interpret the received code identify the document corresponding to the received code and then make information e.g. metadata about the document available to the recipient.

For example if the recipient s client device is a feature phone that is incapable of executing an instance of the identity management application the recipient can forward the code via an SMS message to the gateway. The gateway may in turn send an SMS message with information about the document e.g. title author identification of the person signing the document signature date and or a uniform resource locator URL for accessing the document over a browser to the recipient s feature phone. In the event that the SMS message includes an URL the recipient may be able to access the document or an image of the document by selecting the link causing a mobile browser on the recipient s feature phone to be launched to access the document. In some implementations in response to receiving the code from the recipient s feature phone the gateway may send an MMS message with an image of the document to the recipient s feature phone. In some implementations the messaging based document access can also be facilitated on a client device e.g. a smartphone that is capable of executing an instance of the identity management application described above.

To share an electronic file such as a document a user may obtain a file access code for the file from the server for example via the identity management application running on his her client device and share the file access code with a recipient. The electronic file may be stored at the server or uploaded by the user. Subsequently the recipient can validate the recipient s authorization to access the electronic file to the server by entering the file access code into the identity management application running on the recipient s client device. Once the recipient s authorization to access the electronic file is validated the server may allow the recipient to access the electronic file.

Systems that generate distribute and validate file access codes for access to electronic files are described herein. For the purposes of this discussion the terms user and client device associated with the user are used interchangeably. The terms server and server application are used synonymously as are the terms identity management application software application and client device.

In some implementations the sender client device may be a mobile device such as a smartphone an electronic tablet computer or a portable music player. In such implementations the software application may be a mobile application and the user interfaces and can be formatted for presentation on the display of the mobile device. In other implementations the sender client device may be a desktop or laptop computer. In such implementations the user interfaces and can be formatted for presentation on the display of the desktop or laptop computer.

Some of the electronic files may be owned by the user of the client device while some other electronic files may be owned by other entities but shared with the user of the client device. Based on the selection of the buttons or the user interface can switch between views that show the list of documents owned by the user of the client device and the list of documents shared with the user respectively. In some implementations the user interface can show both lists in a single view. In the example shown the button is selected such that the user interface shows the list of documents owned by the user of the client device.

For either list discussed above each item in the list may include a small graphical representation for example a thumbnail of the electronic file and an identifier for the electronic file such as a filename. In addition each item may include information indicative of whether the electronic file has been electronically signed for example information indicative of whether the electronic file has been authenticated using a digital signature . For example the owner of the file may have signed the electronic file using a private key belonging to the owner. In some implementations the file owner may have several different identities and a different private key for each identity. In such cases the file owner may authenticate different files using different digital signatures. The digital signatures may be based on public key infrastructure PKI for example the Digital Signature Algorithm DSA . In some implementations a document can be signed without applying digital signature techniques. For example a document can be marked as being signed upon receiving an indication for example via an application executing on a user s client device that the user intends to sign the document.

Each item also may include a timestamp. The timestamp can indicate the time when the electronic file was created the time when the electronic file was included in the displayed list of electronic files for example the file may have been added to the list using the button or the time the electronic file was last accessed or modified. For example the file includes a thumbnail a filename an indication that it was signed with an identity Company A Employee and a timestamp

Although the user interface shows the electronic files displayed as a list other arrangements of the electronic files are also possible. For example in some implementations the user interface may present the electronic files in a grid view with each file being represented by a thumbnail and optionally by the filename.

The user of the client device may wish to share one of the files for example the patent document with another user. In this case the user of the client device can be referred to as a sender of the electronic file. The user receiving the electronic file can be referred to as a recipient.

In some implementations the sender may select the file to be shared from the displayed list. The selection can be made for example using a touchscreen display where the sender may select the file by touching an area of the display that shows the file . Once the item is selected the software application may transition to the user interface shown in . In some implementations the user interface can show an enlarged representation of the selected file. In some implementations the user interface provides a graphical representation of the selected file as in the example shown. In other implementations the user interface can include additional information indicative of various attributes of the selected file such as size encoding format timestamp location or another attribute related to the file.

In some implementations the user interface can display the identifier of the file and an indicator that the file has been digitally signed. For files that are not digitally signed the indicator may be absent. In some implementations the indicator may be replaced with an encoded representation as illustrated in the user interface shown in . The encoded representation can include for example a Quick Response QR code that encodes one or more attributes of the selected document. In some implementations the encoded representation may be embedded within the document such that the representation appears on the face of the document when the document is printed on paper. A user can scan the representation using a client device from the printed document to retrieve additional information about the document on the client device. In some implementations a document can be initially displayed as the user interface shown in and then switched to the user interface after a predetermined time thereby revealing the encoded representation .

In some implementations the indicator can include a user selectable control e.g. a hyperlink such that selecting the control displays additional information related to the document. For example selecting the indicator can cause the display of a user interface related to the person responsible for digitally signing the document. illustrates an example of such a user interface that is used to display a portion of a badge that represents a credential used to electronically sign the document . In this example a portion of the badge that may correspond to the front of a physical badge is displayed in the user interface . The user interface can include for example an identifier e.g. a company name of the credential issuing organization that issued the credential e.g. the signing user s employer . The user interface can also include the name and a photograph of a user associated with the credential. The user interface can also include information about the credential and or the associated user and or the signed document including for example an employee s title a time of signing the document and a place of signing the document . The user interface may also include additional information such as an expiration date for the credential an office number or employee number of the user associated with the credential and a telephone number of the user associated with the credential.

In some implementations the user interfaces and can include a control that enables the sender to share the file with another user. Activating the control can cause a presentation of several options by which the file may be shared. For example if the sender selects the control the software application can transition to displaying the user interface shown in . The user interface can include for example one or more controls and that represent options for sharing the selected electronic file. In some implementations the options are presented as an overlay on the enlarged representation of the selected electronic file a portion of which may be visible in the background. The user interface can also include a Cancel button for canceling the file sharing.

The sender may share the electronic file by electronic mail email by selecting the control . Consequently a copy of the file or an identifier associated with the file may be emailed to the recipient. In such cases the recipient may be able to access the file directly from the e mail or via an instance of the identity management application executing on the recipient s client device. For example if the recipient s client device is a smartphone capable of displaying a PDF document the recipient may be able to access the document directly from the e mail. In another example if the recipient s client device is executing an instance of the identity management application the document may be made available within an inbox within an application.

In some implementations the recipient s client device may not be suitably equipped to access the document directly from an e mail or via the identity management application described above. For example the recipient s client device may be a feature phone that does not have the capability to display a PDF document or other documents that require installation and execution of a specific software tool or execute the identity management application. However such a feature phone may support messaging systems such as SMS or MMS. In such cases the document or information about the document can be made available to the recipient s client device using the messaging based document sharing described herein.

In some implementations the sender can share the electronic file over a messaging based system using a file access code associated with the electronic file. For example to share a document the sender may select the control . This can allow the software application to send a request to the server to generate a file access code for the selected electronic file. As part of the request the software application may send a locally stored credential to the server. The credential can be tied for example to a user account at the server. The credential can be used to identify the user to the server and or prove to the server for example based on permissions associated with the linked user account that the user is authorized to share the particular electronic file for which the file access code is requested.

Upon receiving the request the server may verify the identity of the user and or the authorization of the user to share the electronic file. The server can generate a file access code corresponding to the selected electronic file and send the generated code to the application on the client device of the sender. The sender can then provide the file access code to a recipient for example over SMS MMS Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC e mail or another appropriate communication method supported by the recipient s client device. In some implementations the request for sharing the file can also include an identification of the recipient s client device such that the file access code may also be directly transmitted to the recipient s client device. For example if the request identifies the recipient s client device as a feature phone and or provides a phone number associated with the feature phone the server may e.g. using an appropriate gateway send the file access code directly to the recipient s client device over SMS or MMS.

In some implementations the electronic file may reside on the server prior to the file access code being generated. In some implementations the electronic file may be locally stored on the client device. In such cases the sender may be prompted by the server to upload the selected electronic file to the server using the application. The upload may be requested by the server before or after the corresponding file access code is generated. When the file is uploaded to the server the server can store the file on a storage device accessible by the server and associate the file with the file access code that is generated for the file such that the file access code serves as a reference to the electronic file. In some implementations the file access code may also be generated at the sender s client device and provided along with the file to the server. In such cases the server associates the file access code with the file and stores both on a storage device accessible to the server.

The file access code received at the sender s client device can be displayed using a user interface such as the user interface shown in . The sender can then transfer the file access code to an intended recipient of the electronic file. In some implementations the user interface can include one or more controls and that allow the sender to transfer the file access code to the intended recipient using SMS MMS and e mail respectively. In some cases the sender can transfer the file access code verbally to the intended recipient for example in person or over the phone . The recipient can then send the file access code over a messaging system e.g. SMS or MMS to the server e.g. via a SMS or MMS gateway respectively to request access to the corresponding document or file. This is illustrated by way of an example in where the file access code is received as an SMS message on a feature phone of the recipient. The SMS message can then be forwarded to an appropriate gateway to request access to the corresponding file.

In some implementations the software application itself may provide an in built option to transfer the file access code to the client device of the intended recipient. For example the user interface can include controls and to allow sharing of the file access code with suitably equipped devices using sound waves e.g. ultrasonic transmissions and QR codes respectively.

In the example shown if the control is selected the file access code is an alphanumeric string which may be a string of alphabetical letters and digits e.g. a hexadecimal number . In some implementations the file access code may be a phrase composed entirely of alphabetical letters or a number or some other suitable representation. In some implementations when a document is shared using an alphanumeric file access code the alphanumeric code may be preceded or followed by an indication of the date on which the code was generated. For example if the alphanumeric code was generated on Jul. 10 2013 as A45BK9 it may be represented as JUL1013 A45BK9 or A45BK9 JUL1013. In such cases when the alphanumeric code is used to attempt to retrieve the document the indication of the date may not be sent along with the code if the code is sent on the same day the code is generated. In contrast if the alphanumeric code is being used to attempt to retrieve the document on a day other than the day on which the code was generated the indication of the date may be sent along with the code. When the server receives a code and if the code does not include an indication of the date the server may assume that the relevant date is the current date and search for a document associated with a matching alphanumeric code that was generated on the current date. In contrast if the code includes the indication of the date the server looks for a document associated with a matching alphanumeric code that was generated on the date indicated within the code.

In some implementations once a file access code is generated and linked to a file for sharing the owner of the file may use the same code to share the electronic file with multiple users. In some implementations the server may set an expiry time for the file access code when generating the code. The expiry time provides a validity period during which the file access code may be used. If an attempt is made to use the file access code at a time that is after the expiry time of the code the file access code may not be operable to retrieve the file and the server may send back a notification indicating that the code has expired. In some implementations a timer may be displayed on the user interface adjacent to the file access code. The timer can indicate the time remaining in appropriate units before the file access code expires.

In some implementations activation of the control can cause a display of a user interface that includes a QR code as illustrated in . In some implementations the file access code can be encoded within the QR code such that scanning the QR code by a client device causes the file access code to be decoded and sent to the server as a request to access the document with which the QR code is associated. A recipient can use a client device e.g. a client device equipped with a camera to scan the QR code displayed on another client device. In some implementations activation of a control on the user interface causes a larger display of the QR code e.g. in a full screen mode such that the QR code can be easily scanned by a recipient s client device. shows an example where a QR code is scanned using a camera on a feature phone. In some implementations the user interface can also include the controls and that allow the QR code to be sent to a recipient s client device e.g. as an image over MMS and e mail respectively. In some implementations the QR code received over e mail or MMS at the recipient s client device can be forwarded to the server e.g. as shown in to request access to the corresponding file or document. While the examples depicted in show feature phones being used for requesting access to the files other mobile devices such as smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs and tablet computers can also be used.

In some implementations activation of the control can cause a display of a user interface as shown in that includes a graphical icon representing a sound wave based code such as a sonic code. The user interface can also include a control that can cause the code to be transmitted from the client device in the form of a sound wave such as an ultrasonic or audible acoustic signal. A second client device within a vicinity of the transmitting client device can receive the sound waves by sensing the ultrasonic or audible acoustic signal for example using a microphone. In some implementations the code can be provided to a recipient s client device using other short range transmission methods including for example Bluetooth NFC infrared communication or Wi Fi based communication.

Upon receiving the request to access the electronic file from the recipient the server may verify the identity of the recipient and or the authorization of the recipient to access the electronic file. The access request can be received for example via an SMS or MMS gateway as an SMS or MMS message respectively. In such cases the server may be able to determine an identity of the recipient for example by retrieving a phone number from the received SMS or MMS message. The authorization of the recipient to access the electronic file can then be verified for example by accessing a credential associated with the retrieved identity of the recipient. In some implementations if an expiry time is associated with the file access code the server may also determine whether the validity period for the file access code has expired or not. Upon determining that access to the electronic file can be granted the server looks up the electronic file corresponding to the received code.

Based on identifying the electronic file that corresponds to the received code and if all checks are satisfied the server communicates or otherwise makes accessible a message including information about the electronic file. This is illustrated in . In some implementations the message can include information about the electronic document . . . . The message may be delivered as either an SMS or MMS message to the recipient s client device based on for example the phone number retrieved from the message including the access request. In some implementations the information may include metadata about the electronic file e.g. the name and author of the electronic file. Additionally or alternatively if the electronic file is digitally signed the information also may include an indication that the file has been digitally signed. In some implementations when the message is an MMS message the information can include an image of the document that is viewable on the client device. In some implementations the information includes a URL for accessing the document using the browser . The browser can be a mobile browser available on a mobile device such as a feature phone or a smartphone. For example an image or text only version of the document or file can be made available via the URL .

Each client device or may be for example a mobile device such as a cellular phone a smartphone a tablet computer a notebook or laptop computer an e book reader or a music player. Alternatively each client device or may be a desktop computer or any other appropriate portable or stationary computing device. In some implementations the sender s client device can be a smartphone or another computing device having a capability to execute an instance of the identity management application for managing and sharing electronic files and the recipient s client device can be a feature phone or another computing device that does not have the capability to execute an instance of the identity management application. Each client device or may include one or more processors configured to execute instructions stored by a computer readable medium for performing various client operations such as input output communication data processing software execution and the like. For example the sender s client device may execute the software application for sharing electronic files that displays the user interfaces and on a display coupled to the client device . The displays coupled to the client devices and may be implemented as proximity sensitive displays for example a touch screen such that each of the sender and receiver may enter information by touching or hovering a control object for example a finger or stylus over the respective display. The software application may be written in any suitable programming language for example C Objective C C Java Perl HTML etc.

The network may include a circuit switched data network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry data for example Internet Protocol IP based or asynchronous transfer mode ATM based networks including wired or wireless networks. The network may include the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless networks for example IEEE 802.11 networks Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL Third Generation 3G or Fourth Generation 4G mobile telecommunications networks a wired Ethernet network a private network such as an intranet radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data or any appropriate combination of such networks.

The network may be configured to handle secure traffic such as secure hypertext transfer protocol traffic HTTPS or virtual private networks VPN . In some implementations the connections and may be secure connections such as using VPN or HTTPS. However in other implementations the connections may be unsecured connections.

The communications from the client devices may be authenticated. For example in cases where the client devices and are mobile devices and instances of a mobile application running on the devices are used to communicate with each other and with the server the messages may be signed by the instances of the mobile application to indicate that the messages are generated by the mobile application. In addition or as an alternative the messages may be signed by hardware on the client devices and such as using the physical addresses of the respective network interfaces through which the communications are transferred. By signing the messages in such manner the messages may be authenticated as coming from the client devices or and or from the mobile application running on the client devices or respectively. In some implementations the communications between the client devices and may pass through a messaging system gateway device such as an SMS gateway or an MMS gateway. In some implementations the SMS or MMS gateway can include a computing device that can be configured for example to serve as an interface between a client device and the server. For example the SMS or MMS gateway may be configured to receive an SMS or MMS message from a client device convert the message to a format that is understood by the server and forward the converted message to the server. In some implementations the SMS or MMS gateway may be configured to extract information from a received SMS or MMS message and communicate the information to the server. For the return path the SMS or MMS gateway can be configured to receive a message from the server convert the message to an SMS or MMS message and send the SMS or MMS message to the recipient s client device.

The server may be a single server or it may represent a collection of servers such as a server farm or another server arrangement. In either implementation the server includes one or more processors configured to execute instructions stored by a computer readable medium for performing various server operations such as executing database applications for managing user accounts and credentials associated with users of client devices storing electronic files corresponding to the user accounts and running client server applications for communicating with the software applications on the client devices and for generating file access codes for sharing electronic files between the devices.

In some implementations the server may function as an identity management system or be coupled to an identity management system. In such implementations the server may be configured to validate representations of a credential presented by either user or on his her respective client device or respectively by comparing data derived from the user presented representation with information about the credential that is locally available to the server . The server may validate the representations of a credential presented by either user or as a security mechanism to ensure that a user who wishes to share a file as a sender or a user who wishes to access a shared file is authorized to do so.

In this context a credential may be taken to refer to an evidence of rights or entitlement to privileges that can be for example a token that may be used to prove identity to the server or to prove authorization to share or access a file a badge to gain entrance to a location an identifier for membership in a group for example a graduate of a school or a professional certification a ticket for entry to an event a redeemable voucher a key that unlocks a lock for example for entry to a location and so forth.

Credentials can be represented in various forms some of which are described below. For example credentials can be represented by alphanumeric codes including binary decimal or hexadecimal numbers optical machine readable representations such as bar codes and quick response QR codes sound signals and or near field communication NFC signals. Combinations of one or more of these representations can also be used. In certain aspects credentials also may be time sensitive. For example the credentials may be valid only for a predetermined time period such that they cannot be used for validation or any other suitable function either before or after the predetermined time period.

A first form of representation for a credential is an alphanumeric code. As referred to herein an alphanumeric code may be a sequence of numbers and or letters e.g. 4 to 24 characters that is associated with a credential and a user. In some instances a given alphanumeric code may be time varying e.g. will only be valid for a certain time period . To initialize an alphanumeric code a server associates a given alphanumeric code with a credential and distributes the alphanumeric code to the appropriate client device or devices.

To validate an alphanumeric code a user or third party presents the alphanumeric code to a validating device e.g. a client device operated by a user or a processing system operated by a validating entity . The validating device may validate the alphanumeric code by transmitting a validation request message which includes the alphanumeric code to the server. When the server receives the validation request message it attempts to confirm that the presented representation of the credential is valid. For example the server may parse the alphanumeric code to obtain a credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message e.g. the alphanumeric code with data associated with the retrieved credential.

Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the representation for the credential was valid e.g. the presented alphanumeric code matches a valid alphanumeric code for the credential . In turn the validating device may then provide an indication that the representation presented by the user or the third party was valid.

Alternatively or in addition a validating device may validate an alphanumeric code for a credential locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the representation for the credential provided by the third party may be associated with a certificate associated with the third party e.g. a public key infrastructure PKI certificate which may be stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the alphanumeric code with information from the certificate to determine that the alphanumeric code is valid.

Another form of representation for a credential is an optical machine readable representation. As referred to herein an optical machine readable representation of a credential may be an arrangement of graphical elements that encode alphanumeric data representing the credential where the elements are arranged so that the data can be read by an optical scanner. For example an optical machine readable representation of a credential may be a bar code a QR code or an Aztec code among other optical machine readable representations. In some instances a given optical machine readable representation of a credential only may be valid for a certain time period. In some implementations optical machine readable representations of credentials may encode data including or representing credential identifiers and any other suitable data. In other implementations optical machine readable representations of credentials may encode other identifiers that are linked to or otherwise associated with credential identifiers.

To generate an optical machine readable representation a client device may use any suitable technique for encoding alphanumeric data within the optical machine readable representation. For example the client device may call a function or library routine that encodes QR codes in accordance with the QR code International Organization for Standardization ISO standard ISO IEC 18004 2006 RSS Information technology Automatic identification and data capture techniques QR Code 2005 bar code symbology specification.

To initiate the validation process for an optical machine readable representation a client device may output an optical machine readable representation to a display of the client device. A validating device can scan the portion of the client device s display showing the representation of the credential and decode the representation of the credential to generate a set of alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the representation of the credential. In particular the validating device may output a reticle defining a field of view from a camera operatively coupled to the validating device. This reticle can be used to scan the optical machine readable representation of the credential from the relevant portion of the client device s display.

The validating device may use any suitable mechanism to scan and decode the optical machine readable representation of the credential. For example the validating device may access a function or library routine that captures and decodes QR codes and or barcodes using a camera operatively coupled to the validating device. Suitable libraries may include for example RedLaser or Zxing.

In some implementations the validating device may then validate the optical machine readable representation of the credential by transmitting a validation request message to a server. The validation request message may include data corresponding to the alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the optical machine readable representation of the credential. When the server receives the validation request message it attempts to confirm that the presented representation of the credential is valid. For example the server may parse and or decode the alphanumeric characters to obtain a credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message e.g. the alphanumeric characters with data associated with the retrieved credential.

Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the representation for the credential was valid e.g. the alphanumeric characters in the request match a valid sequence of alphanumeric characters for the credential . In turn the validating device may then provide an indication that the representation presented by the user or the third party was valid.

Alternatively or in addition a validating device may validate a set of alphanumeric characters from an optical machine readable representation locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the optical machine readable representation for the credential may include a certificate associated with the client device of the user or third party presenting the optical machine readable representation for validation. Alternatively or in addition the representation for the credential may be associated with a certificate that is already stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the optical machine readable representation with information from the certificate to determine that the optical machine readable representation is valid.

Yet another form of representation for a credential is a sound signal. As described herein a sound signal is an oscillation of pressure waves transmitted through the air that are modulated to encode information. Any suitable modulation scheme could be used such as for example frequency shift keying FSK or phase shift keying PSK . In some implementations the sound signal may be in the ultrasonic frequency range e.g. greater than about 20 kHz. In some implementations the sound signal may be in the audible frequency range e.g. about 20 Hz to about 20 kHz.

A sound signal representing a credential may encode data including or representing a corresponding credential identifier and any other suitable data. In addition a sound signal representing a credential may encode another identifier that is linked to or otherwise associated with a corresponding credential identifier. In some implementations a given sound signal representing a credential may only be valid for a certain time period. For example part of the data encoded in the signal may correspond to a time stamp and the credential represented by the signal may be deemed invalid if a validating device attempts to decode the data more than a predetermined amount of time after the time stamp was generated.

To generate a sound signal a client device may use any suitable technique for encoding a representation of a credential. For example the client device may call a function or library routine that encodes data into sound signals such as the Zoosh software development kit SDK by Naratte Inc. The client device can then output the sound signal representation of the credential from a speaker coupled to the client device for reception by a validating device.

To initiate the validation process for a sound signal a client device outputs a sound signal representing a credential. A validating device may then receive the sound signal at a speaker of the validating device and decode the sound signal representation of the credential to generate a set of alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the sound signal. The validating device may use any suitable mechanism to receive and decode the sound signal.

In some implementations the validating device may then validate the sound signal by transmitting a validation request message to a server. The validation request message may include data corresponding to the alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the sound signal. When the server receives the validation request message it attempts to confirm that the presented sound signal is valid. For example the server may parse and or decode the alphanumeric characters to obtain a credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message e.g. the alphanumeric characters with data associated with the retrieved credential.

Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the sound signal was valid e.g. the alphanumeric characters in the request match a valid sequence of alphanumeric characters for the credential . In turn the validating device may then provide an indication that the representation presented by the user or the third party was valid.

Alternatively or in addition a validating device may validate a set of alphanumeric characters from a sound signal locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the sound signal may include a certificate associated with the client device of the user presenting the sound signal for validation. Alternatively or in addition the representation for the credential may be associated with a certificate that is already stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the sound signal with information from the certificate to determine that the sound signal is valid.

Still another form of representation for a credential is an NFC signal. NFC as described herein is a set of standards e.g. ECMA 340 and ISO IEC 18092 for client devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bringing them into close proximity e.g. typically no more than a few centimeters . NFC as described herein may also include other suitable short range wireless communication protocols such as Bluetooth or Zigbee.

A client device may use any suitable technique for encoding a representation of a credential within an NFC signal such as a function or library routine. An NFC signal representing a credential may encode data including or representing a corresponding credential identifier and any other suitable data. In addition an NFC signal representing a credential may encode another identifier that is linked to or otherwise associated with a corresponding credential identifier. In some implementations a given NFC signal representing a credential may only be valid for a certain time period. For example part of the data encoded in the signal may correspond to a time stamp and the credential represented by the signal may be deemed invalid if a validating device attempts to decode the data more than a predetermined amount of time after the time stamp was generated.

To initiate the validation process for an NFC signal a client device transmits an NFC signal representing a credential. A validating device may then receive the signal at a receiver of the validating device and decode the NFC signal representing the credential to generate the set of alphanumeric characters encoded in the signal.

In some implementations the validating device may then validate the NFC signal by transmitting a validation request message to a server. The validation request message may include data corresponding to the alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the NFC signal. When the server receives the validation request message it attempts to confirm that the presented NFC signal is valid. For example the server may parse and or decode the alphanumeric characters to obtain a credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message e.g. the alphanumeric characters with data associated with the retrieved credential.

Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the NFC signal was valid e.g. the alphanumeric characters in the request match a valid sequence of alphanumeric characters for the credential . In turn the validating device may then provide an indication that the representation presented by the user or the third party was valid.

Alternatively or in addition a validating device may validate a set of alphanumeric characters from an NFC signal locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the NFC signal may include a certificate associated with the client device of the user presenting the NFC signal for validation. Alternatively or in addition the representation for the credential may be associated with a certificate that is already stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the NFC signal with information from the certificate to determine that the NFC signal is valid.

In operation the server manages and stores one or more credentials associates user accounts and shared files with appropriate credentials and provides representations of the credentials to users client devices and or processing systems for example operated by credential authorities for validation. The server can be any suitable computer or collection of computers executing software capable of managing distributing and validating representations of credentials for users and shared electronic files via the network as described herein.

Credentials user accounts and electronic files can be stored in a database for example MySQL PostgreSQL MS SQL Server MongoDB or other suitable data structure that can be accessed by the server . In some implementations the server may access the stored credentials and or user accounts via web services such as representational state transfer REST style services.

In some implementations the server may present an interface so that users such as users and or can create user accounts. For example the server may present an interactive web interface via a web browser that is executed on computing devices associated with the users and . The computing devices may be the client devices and or some other suitable machine used by users and . Alternatively applications on the server may be directly accessible via a graphical user interface GUI provided by a dedicated software application running on the computing devices or an application executed on a mobile device such as the previously described software application running on client devices or .

The user accounts may be stored in a table or collection of tables in a database or in any other suitable data structure s accessible by the server . The user accounts may include a variety of information such as user name user identifier for example a number or character string that uniquely identifies a user and the address es of one or more client devices owned by or otherwise associated with the user.

In some implementations the user accounts may be created by an entity that is different from the users linked to the user accounts. For example a company for example Company A may create user accounts for its employees and store the user accounts in the server that is managed by Company A. The entity also may be the credential authority that generates and manages credentials for the user accounts. For example Company A may generate and manage credentials for the user accounts of its employees the employees may share electronic files using file access codes that are based on credentials generated by Company A with the electronic files and linked credentials being managed by the server that is operated by Company A and or that provides a service to Company A.

In some implementations the user accounts may include group accounts which may be a collection of individual user accounts that may perform certain functions using a common credential. Certain individual users may be identified as belonging to a group by linking an entry for the corresponding user account to an entry for the group account for example by use of a linking table. The group accounts may include a variety of information such as a group name group identifier for example a number or character string that uniquely identifies a group and a description of the group.

In addition or as an alternative to the creation of user accounts and group accounts by entities like a company or some other suitable institution user accounts and group accounts may be created at the request of potential users through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable means such as sending email or SMS to the users. In some implementations the potential users may be able to create user accounts by use of an application running on a client device such as the software application running on client devices and or .

Once user accounts have been created credentials may be generated by the server or the credential authority that is linked to the server for associating with the user accounts and for use to share electronic files by the users corresponding to the user accounts. For example in a manner similar to that previously described the user who wishes to share an electronic file with user may use the software application running on the client device and one or more credentials assigned to the user by the server to request the server to generate a file access code for sharing the desired electronic file. The users may interact with the server through a web interface presented by the server via web browsers running on the client devices or through the software application providing user interfaces such as the user interfaces and .

Based on the request from the user the server may generate a file access code for the electronic file. In some implementations the electronic file may already be present in the storage accessible by the server and associated with the user account corresponding to the user . In such cases the server links the generated file access code to the stored electronic file and transmits the file access code to the sender s client device such that the sender may interact with the server .

In some implementations the electronic file may not be present in the storage device coupled to the server . In such cases the user may be prompted to upload the electronic file to the server for example through a user interface that is presented on the client device . While uploading the electronic file to the server the user may identify the user account by including with the upload of the electronic file one or more credentials that are associated with the corresponding user account.

Once the electronic file is uploaded to the server the server may store the uploaded electronic file in the coupled storage and associate the electronic file with the user account corresponding to the user based on the credentials that are received along with the electronic file. The server can then link the generated file access code to the stored electronic file and transmit the file access code to the client device .

The file access code may be presented to the user using for example the user interface on the client device . Subsequently once the file access code is shared with the recipient the recipient may attempt to access the shared electronic file by interacting with the server through the client device . For example the user may interact with the server using the software application that is executed on the client device . Alternatively the user can provide the file access code to the server via SMS or MMS messages. In such cases the client device may interact with the server over an appropriate messaging gateway such as an SMS gateway or an MMS gateway. An SMS gateway can be a computing device in a telecommunications network facility for sending and or receiving Short Message Service SMS transmissions to or from a telecommunications network. In some implementations SMS gateways may support media conversions between SMS message formats and formats recognized by the server. An MMS gateway can be a computing device in a telecommunications network facility for sending and or receiving Multimedia Message Service MMS transmissions to or from a telecommunications network. An MMS gateway extends SMS capabilities to include multimedia content such as images video and audio. The SMS or MMS gateways can be accessed for example using one or more phone numbers. For example a recipient can provide a received code to the server by sending the code as an SMS or MMS message to a designated phone number associated with a corresponding gateway. In some implementations when the gateway communicates the code to the server the gateway may also pass on the phone number associated with the recipient s device to the server such that the recipient s phone number can be used to route the information that is sent from the server to the recipient s device.

Once the client device transmits the file access code to the server the server may check whether the file access code is still valid for example in cases where the file access codes are time sensitive . If the file access code is determined to be valid the server can locate the electronic file that is linked to the file access code for example by using internally stored lookup tables that store the association between shared electronic files and corresponding file access codes . If the electronic file is successfully located the server can provide the electronic file or information about the electronic file to the client device . In some implementations the electronic file or the information about the electronic file can be provided to the client device over SMS or MMS. In some cases the SMS or MMS message can include an URL that allows the client device to access the electronic file over a browser. In some implementations the electronic file can be provided to the client device for example as an image embedded within an MMS message.

In some implementations the server may not transmit the entire electronic file instead the server may send some information related to the electronic file such as a portion of the electronic file or some other information e.g. metadata associated with the electronic file. This may be the case for example when there are restrictions placed on what can be shared. The restrictions may be placed by the user sharing the electronic file or by the entity that creates and manages the user accounts. The restrictions may be based for example on a degree of security that is afforded to sensitive information that may be present in the electronic files. The restrictions may also be based on the capability of the recipient s client device . For example if the recipient s client device is a feature phone that is not capable of displaying a PDF document metadata information about the document can be provided to the client device instead of the actual document. In some implementations the restrictions can be based on the messaging protocol used for communications between the client device and the server. For example if the request for access to the document is transmitted as an SMS message the requested information can be returned also as an SMS message. In such cases the information can include only text such as a limited amount of metadata text about the document. Alternatively if the request for access to the document is transmitted as an MMS message the requested information may be returned as an MMS message that includes for example an image of the requested document.

In some implementations the sender may share the electronic file with more than one recipient. For example the sender may use a common file access code to share the electronic file with multiple recipients. Alternatively the sender may use different file access codes to share the electronic file with the multiple recipients. In some cases each recipient may access the electronic file using a file access code that is shared exclusively with the recipient while in other cases each recipient may access the electronic file using a file access code that is shared with a subset of the recipients. The restrictions some of which are indicated above that are placed on accessing the electronic file may be different for different recipients based on the file access code that is used by each recipient to access the file.

In some implementations the file access code may be a one time use access code. In such implementations once the user uses the file access code to retrieve the file from the server the server may invalidate the file access code such that the access code cannot be used to retrieve the file any longer. Therefore any additional request to retrieve the file based on the file access code will be refused by the server .

In some implementations the sender may be able to monitor which recipients have successfully accessed the shared electronic file. For example when a recipient accesses the shared electronic file the server may send a confirmation to the software application running on the client device and the software application may present the confirmation to the user using for example a suitable user interface. In situations where multiple recipients successfully access the electronic file the user interface may show information on the multiple recipients who have successfully accessed the electronic file. In some implementations the server can identify the multiple recipients from phone number information forwarded to the server from an SMS or MMS gateway.

The communications between the client devices and and the server e.g. communications related to creation of the user accounts uploading of electronic file reception of the file access code by the user sharing of the file access code from the user to the user and transmission of the file access code and reception of the shared electronic file by the user may take place over the network connections and that are established over the network connecting the client devices and the server .

The system may be used with any file management platform to enable sharing of electronic files using file access codes and other suitable codes. The file management platform may have application programming interfaces APIs that can be used by the system to link the file management platform with the credential generation and file sharing functionality provided by the system .

In the message flow shown by the messaging diagram initially the client device transmits a request message for a file access code to the server . For example the client device may intend to share an electronic file e.g. a document with other users using the credential system managed by the server . Therefore the client device sends the request for a file access code that can be used to share the document.

In response to the request message the server may perform a determination if the sender is authorized to share the document. This can be done for example by checking the credentials associated with the sender and or the sender s client device . The server then transmits a response message to the client device wherein the response includes a file access code e.g. responsive to having determined that the sender is authorized to share the document. In some implementations when the request message identifies an intended recipient e.g. by a corresponding phone number associated with the recipient s client device the server may also transmit the message to the recipient s client device directly.

The sender can then share the file access code with the recipient. This can be done for example by sending a message from the sender s client device to the recipient s client device . The message includes the file access code and can be sent for example as an e mail SMS or MMS. In some implementations the message may be sent using another transmission mechanism such as Near Field Communication NFC ultrasonic transmission BLUETOOTH or a Wi Fi based communication. In implementations where the file access code is a QR code the recipient may scan the QR code displayed on the sender s client device using for example a camera on the recipient s client device . In some cases the sender can verbally communicate e.g. in person or over phone the file access code to the recipient e.g. when the file access code is an alphanumeric code.

Upon receiving file access code the recipient can send an access request from the recipient s client device to access the document. The access request identifies or includes the file access code. In some implementations the access request can include an identification of the recipient s client device and or an identification of a user account credential associated with the recipient. The access request can be transmitted to the server over an SMS or MMS. In some implementations the access request can be routed through the server via an SMS MMS gateway. The access request can be sent to the gateway from the client device using for example a dedicated phone number associated with the gateway. In some implementations the gateway can be configured to detect whether the access request is received as an SMS or MMS such that the request is processed accordingly. The gateway may communicate information to the server accordingly. In some implementations the information that eventually gets returned to the client device can depend on whether the access request is received over SMS or MMS. For example if the access request is received over SMS the information eventually returned to the client device can be via an SMS message that includes text based metadata about the document. Alternatively if the access request is received over MMS the information eventually returned to the client device can be via an MMS message that includes an image of the document. In some implementations the gateway can be configured to determine the phone number of the client device based on the access request for example to route a response to the client device .

Upon receiving the access request the server may perform a verification that the recipient is authorized to access the document being requested using the file access code. This can include identifying the document that is linked with the file access code and checking the credentials associated with the recipient. The server may be able to identify a recipient based on for example phone number information extracted from the access request and forwarded by the gateway. The server may also check whether the file access code is valid for example whether the time period for which the file access code may be used has expired. In some implementations the verification may entail requesting secondary authentication information from the recipient. For example the recipient may be asked to prove that he she is in possession of a physical copy of the document before access to the corresponding electronic version is provided. In such cases the recipient may be asked to include a portion of the document e.g. the first three words of the second paragraph as the secondary authentication information. Access to the electronic version of the document may be provided only if the portion of the document provided as the secondary authentication matches the corresponding portion in the electronic version of the document.

Based upon the verification the server can send a message to the recipient s client device . The message can be sent for example over an SMS or MMS. In some implementations the message can include information on the document. For example the message can include metadata information about the document e.g. the name and author of the document an indication that the file has been digitally signed and an identification of the person who has signed the document. In some implementations the message can include an image of the document that is viewable on the client device for example using a browser or MMS interface. In some implementations the message can include a URL for accessing the document using a browser. For example an image or text only version of the document or file can be made available via the URL. In some implementations the URL provided in the message can be used to access the document within a predetermined or pre specified time limit. The message can also include a password that the recipient may need to enter when accessing the document or information about the document using the URL.

In some implementations the content of the message can be determined based on for example whether SMS or MMS is used for sending the access request . For example if the access request is received over SMS the message can be an SMS message that includes text based metadata about the document. Alternatively if the access request is received over MMS the message can be an MMS message including for example an image of the document.

Operations also include transmitting a code e.g. a file access code associated with the document . This can include generating the code for the document upon verifying that the sender is authorized to share the document. The code can include for example an alphanumeric code a QR code a sound signal based code and or an NFC signal based code. The server can store the generated code such that the code is uniquely linked to the document for which the code is generated. The code can be transmitted to the sender s client device or to the recipient s client device if the recipient s client device is identified in the request for the code. In some implementations the code transmitted to the sender s client device can be a reference code e.g. an alphanumeric code generated at the server and the sender s client device then encodes the reference code as a QR code or sound signal for providing to the recipient. The code can be transmitted to the sender s client device or the recipient s client device using for example an SMS an MMS.

Operations also include receiving from a second client device e.g. the recipient s client device a request to access the document . The request to access the document can be received from the second client device for example via a messaging gateway such as an SMS gateway or an MMS gateway. The request to access the document may identify the second client device and or a user account credential associated with the recipient. For example the request to access the document can be sent via an SMS message that identifies the recipient s client device by a phone number. The server upon receiving the phone number may retrieve a user account associated with the phone number for example to determine whether the user account is authorized to access the document. The request to access the document can also include secondary authentication information. For example in some cases the recipient may be asked to prove that he she is in possession of a physical copy of the document before access to the electronic version of the document is provided. In such cases the recipient may be asked to include a portion of the document e.g. the first three words of the second paragraph as the secondary authentication information. Access to the electronic version of the document may be provided only if the portion of the document provided as the secondary authentication matches the corresponding portion in the electronic version of the document.

Operations also include communicating to the second device a message that includes information about the document . In some implementations the message can be communicated upon verifying that the recipient is authorized to access the requested document. If a determination is made that the recipient is not authorized to access the document or if the file access code is determined to have expired the message can include a notification that access to the document is being denied and optionally a reason for the denial. The message can be communicated for example over an SMS or MMS. In some implementations the information on the document can include for example metadata information about the document e.g. the name and author of the document an indication that the file has been digitally signed and an identification of the person who has signed the document . In some implementations the information on the document can include an image of the document that is viewable on the client device. In some implementations the information on the document can include a URL for accessing the document using a browser. In some implementations the information on the document can be determined based on for example whether SMS or MMS is used for sending the corresponding access request. For example if the access request is sent over SMS the information on the document can be sent as an SMS message that includes text based metadata about the document. Alternatively if the access request is sent over MMS the information on the document can include an MMS message that includes an image of the document.

A wide variety of applications is possible based on the subject matter described above. For example a recipient may be allowed to use a client device to view information e.g. metadata about a document that has been shared with the recipient for example via a web based application even if the recipient s client device e.g. a feature phone is not capable of executing or otherwise interacting with the web based application itself. The file access code may be used to provide a layer of security in sharing electronic files in addition or as an alternative to the intended recipient having to authenticate him herself using credentials. The sharing of electronic files may be limited to within certain groups of users such as employees of a company. The sender may share an electronic file simultaneously with multiple recipients in an efficient manner and receive confirmation indicating which recipients have successfully received the shared electronic file. The sender may limit the sharing of electronic files to predetermined time periods such that the recipients may not be able to access sensitive information at other times.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include for example a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as a network described above. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

