---

title: Contextual connection recommendation in a social network
abstract: A system and method for contextual connection recommendation includes obtaining, with a processor from a database, contextual data and social graph data related to a pair of members of a social network who are not currently connected on the social network. A connection base score between the pair of members is generated based on the social graph data. A recommendation modifier is generated based on the contextual data. A connection recommendation modified score is determined by applying the recommendation modifier to the base score. A connection recommendation is provided to at least one of the pair of members based, at least in part, on the connection recommendation modified score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595069&OS=09595069&RS=09595069
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09595069
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151231
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 110 339 filed Jan. 30 2015 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to providing contextual connection recommendations in a social network.

Social networks conventionally include multiple users who join the social network as members. Those members may be connected to one another on the social network to facilitate the sharing of information between and among the various members of the social network. Members may search for other members and extend invitations via the social network to connect. In general the greater the number of connections in a social network the greater the amount of content that is shared and the more engaged with the social network the members may tend to be.

Example methods and systems are directed to contextual connection recommendations in a social network. Examples merely typify possible variations. Unless explicitly stated otherwise components and functions are optional and may be combined or subdivided and operations may vary in sequence or be combined or subdivided. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident to one skilled in the art however that the present subject matter may be practiced without these specific details.

Social networks may seek to increase the connectedness of members of the social network by providing recommendations to a first member of the social network that the first member may know and or want to connect with certain other members of the social network. The social network may for instance analyze the first member s existing connections to infer connections that the first member might want to make. By way of example if the first member has connections with eight other members who are all connected to a second member the social network may propose to the first member that the first member may know or want to connect to the second member.

However such mechanisms may lack the overall context of the likely relationship between the first and second members. Thus a relatively large number of shared connections between the first and second members may be because they are coworkers and do in fact know one another or would be likely to get to know one another. Alternatively the connections may be via former coworkers of the first member and the second member may have joined the first member s former employer after the first member left. In such a case even though there is relatively large number of shared connections the first and second members do not know one another and may never have a reason to know one another. In such an example a connection recommendation between the first and second members may be spurious and ignored.

A connection recommendation system for a social network has been developed that considers the context of the subject members of the recommendation. The system may consider factors such as employers educational background including schools memberships activities on the social network and the like as well as shared connections and adjust connection recommendations accordingly. The system may consider such factors in real time and may update recommendations based on new connections or invitations for connections. Thus if the first member sends out connection requests to members who are employees of a certain company then recommendations to the first member for other employees of the company may be prioritized higher than other recommendations for members who are not employees of the company.

One or more of the application server modules content item publishing module or the social network system generally may include a connection recommendation module . As will be disclosed in detail herein the connection recommendation module may generate recommendations for connections between members of the social network. The connection recommendation module may utilize member profiles and user activities it the generation of connection recommendations.

The connection recommendation module may be implemented on a separate server or may be part of a server that provides other portions of the social network system . Thus it is to be understood that while the connection recommendation module is described as an integral component of a social network the principles described herein may be applied without the connection recommendation module being an integral part of a social network or even necessarily utilizing data from a social network if member profile information and user activities are available from alternative sources.

As illustrated the data layer includes but is not necessarily limited to several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Member profile data may include a list of connections each member has with other members of the social network. Consistent with some examples when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person may be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database or another database not shown . With some examples the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles that the member has held with the same or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company With some examples importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some examples a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some examples does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph database .

Activities by users of the social network system may be logged as activities in the activity and behavior database . Such activities may include interactions with content displayed on the social network. Interactions may include clicking on a link to read an article commenting on a post to the social network liking or otherwise approving of a post sharing the post or any of a variety of mechanisms by which a member may engage with social network content.

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some examples the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some examples members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some examples the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

Although not shown with some examples the social network system provides an API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to various content streams maintained by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

The social network includes members linked to one another within the social network via connections . Not all members have connections with all of the other members . Certain members have further affiliations with other members . For instance certain members are employees of the same company as noted in those members profile data . Other members are related to one another for having attended the same school .

Members of the social network have defined connection relationships between one another. Members A B who have a direct connection have a first degree connection. Members A C who do not have a direct connection with one another but who each have a direct connection to another member B have a second degree connection. Members A D who do not have a second degree connection but who are connected via two other members B C have a third degree connection and so forth.

The illustration of the social network is simplified for the purposes of explanation. It is to be understood that the social network may incorporate millions or billions of members . Each of those members may have dozens or hundreds or more of affiliations that may be formally chosen by each member such as groups that the member may elect to join or may be inferred by the social network from the member s profile data .

The connection recommendation module is coupled to the profile database the social graph database and the activity database . The profile and activity databases are coupled to a data management module . The data management module may incorporate data storage and data processing elements that may utilize the profile data and activities data stored on the databases to identify contextual information that may influence or modify connection recommendations provided by the connection recommendation module .

In an example the data management module is an integral part of the connection recommendation module . Alternatively the data management module is operated separately from the connection recommendation module as illustrated. In such an example the connection recommendation module provides modifiers that are incorporated by the connection recommendation module and utilized to update basic connection recommendations. As such the separate data management module may allow for a conventional connection recommendation module to be utilized without fundamentally updating the conventional recommendation module .

The data management module collects profile data and activities data on an ongoing basis and utilizes data processing to identify relationships between data of different members . The data processing may focus on new data e.g. data recently added to the databases and determining relationships between and among the new data and old data. The data management module may do so effectively in real time where the databases push the new data out the data management module upon receipt of the data. Alternatively the data management module may poll the databases for new data periodically. Very frequent polling such as with a frequency on the order or seconds or minutes of may create the practical effect of real time updating or may be more distinctly periodic such as with a frequency on the order of tens of minutes or hours.

As noted above the data management module may in various examples utilize or favor only relatively recent data . For instance in an example the data management module may utilize activity data that is less than one month old It is to be recognized that additional or alternative time cutoffs may be utilized. Alternatively the data management module may implement a weighting function that favors recently added data over relatively older data. For instance relationships that are identified on the basis of data added within two weeks may be weighted at one hundred percent data added from two weeks to four weeks may be weighted at seventy five percent data added from four weeks to six weeks may be weighted at fifty percent and so forth.

The data management module may utilize a distributed storage and distributed processing technique to analyze the data received. In an example the data management module utilizes an Apache Hadoop framework for both storage and processing. In such an example the data management module includes multiple processing and storage clusters. In various examples the databases may function or be utilized as the distributed storage and the data management module may perform only the distributed processing function. In such an example the data management module may utilize the Map Reduce distributed processing function of the Hadoop framework without necessarily implementing the distributed file system.

The data management module determines contextual connection recommendation modifiers between individual members of the social network . In an example a pair of members has a single modifier defined by common data between those members . The modifier for a pair of members may be uniquely determined for that pair of members .

In an example each member may b paired with each other member and for each pair the data management module may determine a unique modifier . In that way each member of the social network may be assigned a unique contextual modifier for each and every other member of the social network. It is to be recognized however that doing so may be very computationally intensive if the social network includes a large number of members. If the data management module includes sufficient computational resources then a unique modifier may be determined for each unique pair of members . However if doing an is impractical then the data management module may establish or be provided with criteria for which pairs of members have determined modifiers . In an example only pairs of members who have second and third degree connections are assigned a modifier . If computational resources permit higher order connections such as fourth and fifth degree connections may receive modifiers . In various examples pairs of members who already have first degree connections i.e. members who already have a direct connection do not receive a modifier unless and until the connection is terminated.

These conditions for determining a modifier between a given pair of members are for example and may be adjusted for circumstances including but not limited to the number of members of the social network and the available computing resources. If computing resources remain available after determining modifiers for each of the pairs of members then more modifiers may be determined for more pairs of member . Alternatively if the computing resources are not sufficient to keep up with the computing needs of a target number or distribution of modifiers between pairs of members then conditions under which a pair of members has a modifier determined may be tightened and fewer modifiers may be determined as appropriate.

The table includes cells that show the modifier for each pair of members included in the table. The table is simplified for the purposes of illustration and does not include a cell for each potential pair of members illustrated in the social network of . The principles illustrated in the table are readily applicable across a larger population of members .

For each pair of members included in the table the data management module determines the modifier by comparing or variously considering relevant profile data and activities of the two members of the pair. Matches between profile data and activities of the members may increase the modifier . in an example the modifier between pairs of members starts at zero and is increased based on data matches. Thus if a pair of members both work at the same company then the modifier is increased by 0.5. If a pair of members used to work at the same company then the modifier is increased by 0.25. For each social group the members both belong to the modifier may be increased by 0.5. For each posting or content on the social network with which the members have both interacted the modifier may be increased by 0.1.

These examples are simplified and any data points that can be identified as common between two members may be selected and utilized. Further it is to be recognized that for various social networks both the types of data and activities that produce changes to the modifier may vary. Thus a social network that focuses on professional connections may utilize and weight professional factors such as jobs and schools higher than shared memberships in social groups. A social network that focuses on social interactions on the other hand may utilize and weight social groups and common interests more heavily careers and educational background.

In an example the common factors between the pair of members are added together to arrive at the modifier. Thus by way of simplified illustration a pair of members who work at the same company 0.5 who attended the same school 0.5 who belong to three groups together 0.5 3 1.5 and who have interacted with fifteen 15 of the same articles 0.1 15 1.5 over a predetermined time period e.g. one month would have a modifier of 4.0. Two members whose only point of similarity is that they used to work at the same company would have a modifier of 0.25.

The connections of members may also be factored in to determining the modifier . If the member A connects with the member C all of the members with whom the member C is connected may have their modifier increased by a factor 1.0 for example between those members and the member A. In other words the second degree connections with the member A by way of the new connection with the member C may receive a bonus in the modifier . The bonus to the modifier may be removed or may decay over time thus relatively more recent connections may produce the bonus while older connections may not. In an example the bonus for a new connection lasts two 2 weeks and then is discontinued or progressively reduced.

In an example the data management module updates the modifier for a pair of members based on one of the members of the pair making a new connection or inviting another member to connect on the social network . Thus in an example if member A make a connection with member C then some or all of the members of the social network who work at the same company went to the same school belong to the same groups and so forth as member C may have their modifiers with the member A updated. In other words the member A connecting with the member C may be a trigger for updating the modifier of the member D who went to the same school as the member C but not the member E who neither works in the same company as the member C nor otherwise has any affiliation with the member C.

Returning now to the data management module provides the modifiers as computed to the connection recommendation module . In various examples the data management module transmits the modifiers on the basis of a periodic upload e.g. daily or more or less frequently as desired. Alternatively the data management module may transmit a modifier upon the calculation of the modifier e.g. in real time.

In the illustrated example the data management module pushes the modifiers to an intermediate database . In such an example the connection recommendation module accesses the database for a modifier between a pair of members when the connection recommendation module is determining whether or not to make a connection recommendation to one of the members . Alternatively the database may be an integral part of the connection recommendation module and the data management module may simply push the modifiers to the connection recommendation module directly. Further alternatively the data management module may store the modifiers until the connection recommendation module requests a modifier in such an example the database may be an integral component of the data management module .

The connection recommendation module utilizes the modifier by adjusting an internally generated connection recommendation score regardless of how the internally generated score may have been arrived at. For instance in a basic case the connection recommendation module may generate a base connection recommendation score simply by randomly selecting two members who are not yet connected and making a recommendation in that case all pairs of members may have a base score of 1.0. On a more involved level the connection recommendation module may score a pair of members who have a second degree connection a 3.0 a pair of members who have a third degree connection a 2.0 and a pair of members who have a fourth degree connection a 1.0 and not make additional pairs of members eligible for a connection recommendation. In an example the scores for connections are cumulative adding the score for each second degree connection each third degree connection and so forth between two members . Alternatively the score for degree of connection is simply that of the closest connection thus if two members have multiple second and third degree connections then the score is equal to one second degree connection. These examples are for the purposes of illustration and it is to be recognized that any of a variety of mechanisms for generating a base connection recommendation score may be utilized.

The connection recommendation module then applies the modifier to the base connection recommendation score for the pair of members to determine a connection recommendation modified score. In an example the connection recommendation module multiples the base connection recommendation score with the modifier . Alternatively the connection recommendation module adds the modifier to the base score. Additional mathematical operations for applying the modifier to the base score are contemplated.

The details of application of the modifier to the base score may depend on the policies of the social network . For instance if the social network policy seeks to increase connections with the overall quality of the connections being a secondary consideration then the connection recommendation module may add the modifier to the base score. Additionally or alternatively the connection recommendation module may add 1.0 to the modifier or otherwise ensure that all modifiers are above zero and then multiply the modifier with the base score thereby preventing final connection recommendation scores from being less than the base score or from being zero in the event that the modifier is also zero Alternatively if the social network policy seeks relatively high quality connections at the potential cost of fewer near term connections then the modifier may be multiplied by the base score without additional adjustment. In that case members who have little or nothing in common would be unlikely to receive a connection recommendation even if those members have a relatively close social graph.

The connection recommendation module may provide recommendations to one member . for connections with the highest ranked other members based on the base score as modified for that pair of members . The connection recommendation module may provide a predetermined number of recommendation based on the highest modified scores. Alternatively the connection recommendation module may provide recommendations based on all of the modified scores that exceed a predetermined threshold.

An illustrative example is provided herein. The illustrative example utilizes certain mechanisms and variations thereon to illustrate the determination of several modified scores for making connection recommendations. It is to be recognized and understood that the illustrative example is not limiting and that any suitable mechanisms may be utilized as appropriate to the circumstances.

In the illustrative example a first member has five second degree connections and three third degree connections with a second member for a total base score of 5 4 3 3 29. The first member and the second member have a modifier of 0.25 the calculation of the modifier is omitted for the sake of simplicity hut the principles are illustrated herein producing a modified score of 29 0.1 2.9. In the illustrative example the first member has two second degree connections and two third degree connections with a third member for a total base score of 2 4 2 3 14. The first and third members have a modifier of 2.25 producing a modified score of 14 2.25 31.5. In the illustrative example the first member has one second degree connection and five third degree connections with a fourth member for a total base score of 19. The first and fourth members have a modifier of 1.5 for a modified score of 19 1.5 28.5. In the illustrative example the first member has eight second degree connections and ten third degree connections with a fifth member for a total base score of 62. The first and fifth members have a modifier of 0.8 for a modified score of 62 0.8 49.6.

In the illustrative example the connection recommendation module is configured to provide two connection recommendations. As such the connection recommendation module provides connection recommendations for the third and fifth members to the message publishing module . The message publishing module generates a message for display on a user interface of the first member . The user interface module causes the message to be transmitted to a user interface of the first member .

In an example the connection recommendation includes a link that the first member may click or otherwise select to variously cause or request a connection between the first member and the object member of the connection recommendation in the illustrative example either the third or the fifth member . If the link is for a connection request the object member of the request may either accept or reject the connection request. In various examples upon the first member either selecting the link or rejecting the connection recommendation the connection recommendation module may provide a replacement connection recommendation by providing a recommendation corresponding to the next highest modified score. Thus if the first user requests a connection with the third member the connection recommendation module may then follow up with a connection recommendation with the fourth member .

At operation contextual data and social graph data related to a pair of members of a social network who are not currently connected on the social network are obtained with a processor from a database. In an example the contextual data is profile data of each of the pair of members and activity data of each of the pair of members. In an example the profile data includes individual data points for each of the pair of members. In an example each pair of the individual data points is assigned a score based on the similarity of the data points of the pair. In an example the activity data includes activities on the social network by the pair of members.

At operation a connection base score between the pair of members is generated by the processor based on the social graph data. In an example the base score is generated based on common connections within the social network between the members of the pair of members and other members of the social network. In an example the common connections include connections of multiple degrees.

At operation a recommendation modifier is generated by the processor based on the contextual data. In an example generating the recommendation modifier is based at least in part on a similarity between pairs of the individual data points. In an example generating the recommendation modifier is based at least in part on a combination of the score of each pair of the individual data points. In an example generating the recommendation modifier is based at last in part on related activities by the pair of members. In an example the related activities are based at least in part on an interaction by one of the pair of members with an action by another one of the pair of members.

At operation a connection recommendation modified score is determined by the processor by applying the recommendation modifier to the base score.

At operation a plurality of connection recommendation modified scores are determined by the processor individual ones of the plurality of connection recommendation modified scores corresponding to one of a plurality of pairs of members each of the plurality of pairs of members including the first member each one of the plurality of connection recommendation modified scores determined based on a connection base score between members of an associated one of the plurality of pairs of members and a recommendation modifier between the members of the associated one of the plurality of pairs of members.

At operation a connection recommendation is provided by the processor to at least one of the pair of members based at least in part on the connection recommendation modified score. In an example providing the connection recommendation includes providing connection recommendations ranked based on the plurality of connection recommendation modified scores.

The machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC or any suitable combination thereof a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The machine may further include a graphics display e.g. a plasma display panel PDP alight emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The machine may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored the instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the processor e.g. within the processor s cache memory or both during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the main memory and the processor may be considered as machine readable media. The instructions may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

As used herein the term memory refers to a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. software for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processor cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more data repositories in the form of a solid state memory an optical medium a magnetic medium or any suitable combination thereof.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an ASIC. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein processor implemented module refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented a processor being an example of hardware. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. Moreover the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. an API .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or any suitable combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information. Furthermore unless specifically stated otherwise the terms a or an are herein used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one instance. Finally as used herein the conjunction or refers to a non exclusive or unless specifically stated otherwise.

