---

title: Printed tag real-time tracking
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for flexible, low-cost tracking devices capable of seamless indoor and outdoor tracking transitions. A tracking device may comprise, for example, circuitry combined with one or more transceivers on a flexible substrate. At least a portion of the circuitry may be printed using a conductive medium, such as nanoparticle ink. The tracking device may be configured to localize the tracking device via GPS or an alternative localization strategy based on a determination of whether GPS communication is available.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473902&OS=09473902&RS=09473902
owner: KING ABDULLAH UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
number: 09473902
owner_city: Thuwal
owner_country: SA
publication_date: 20150908
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 799 272 entitled PRINTED TAG REAL TIME TRACKING filed on Mar. 13 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Tracking devices are used today to monitor the location of people or things in real time. Yet tracking devices remain relatively costly add notable weight to devices in which they are implemented and or take up valuable space in devices in which they are implemented. Interfacing with user friendly frameworks for the provision of tracking device locations to an end user remains burdensome. Moreover integrated traceability in indoor as well as outdoor situations remains problematic.

The present disclosure relates to providing an end to end system for providing and or monitoring tracking devices as well as a tracking device for use in the system. As may be appreciated tracking devices are used today to monitor the location of people or things in real time. Yet tracking devices remain relatively costly add notable weight to devices in which they are implemented and or take up valuable space in devices in which they are implemented. For example tracking devices may require circuitry that is bulky or burdensome. Damage to the tracking devices requires replacement of the tracking devices which may present an undue expense. Typically infrastructure capable of interacting with tracking devices require expensive infrastructure placement at relatively proximate intervals. For example radio frequency identification RFID tracking devices require RFID readers every so many feet. Further provision of a user friendly monitoring interface capable of seamless traceability in outdoor as well as indoor environments remains problematic.

For example by utilizing printable circuitry the cost of constructing a tracking device may be drastically reduced. Low cost fabrication methods may be used for the tracking devices such as reel to reel or roll to roll printing. In addition environment friendly materials may be used.

Moreover implementing one or more forms of localization and or communication may utilize existing infrastructure e.g. global positioning system GPS wireless access points Bluetooth devices etc. while providing redundancy and reliability. Implementing one or more forms of localization and or communication can also provide tracking across difference environments such as indoor and outdoor environments. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown are the components of an exemplary tracking device for use in the present system. The tracking device may be printed using for example an inkjet printer. In the non limiting example of a printed tracking device may comprise a circuit printed on a substrate one or more antennas printed on a substrate and a battery . A substrate for circuitry and or a substrate for antennas may comprise for example paper plastic silicon polymer or other material. As may be appreciated a circuit and or antenna may be printed using relatively inexpensive inkjet and or screen printing technology. For example an inkjet printer may utilize conductive ink to print a complete and or partial circuit on a substrate the circuit capable of being combined with additional circuitry. Conductive ink may comprise for example ink comprising conductive nanoparticles nanotubes and or other conductive materials such as gold silver copper silicon and or any combination thereof. As may be appreciated various paper and or plastic substrates may be used to flex and or bend without damaging the circuit and may be selected to be environmentally friendly. In the case of an inkjet printer the thickness of the substrate may be selected for use in the printer.

In order to power a lightweight flexible and minimal tracking device a battery may comprise for example a flexible battery. A flexible battery for example may be capable of being folded or bended without compromising the integrity of the battery. Such batteries may be printed using nanotube ink or may be commercially available e.g. flexible lithium ion flexible nickel cadmium batteries etc. . When combined with flexible circuitry the combination of the circuitry and the battery may also be capable of being folded or bended without compromising the integrity of a tracking device. Alternatively a tracking device may comprise any other power source in lieu of a battery . Additionally a battery may be combined with various recharging circuitry not shown . Recharging circuitry for example may comprise a solar panel perpetual motion recharging circuitry and or other recharging circuitry.

With reference to shown is an exemplary antenna of that may be deployed in a tracking device. As discussed above with respect to an antenna may be created by printing the antenna using an inkjet printer screen printing and or any like method. Moreover the antenna may be printed on a substrate that may comprise for example paper plastic silicon and or any other material also as discussed above. The antenna may be printed to be right hand circularly polarized CP . CP may be achieved by exciting two orthogonal field components with equal magnitude and a 90 degree phase difference. In the non limiting example of the two orthogonal field components are excited via asymmetry or a perturbation in the antenna structure. For example an L shaped absence is introduced in the rectangular monopole structure to achieve circular polarization.

With reference to shown are the layers of an exemplary tracking device created using the components of . In the non limiting example of a tracking device may comprise a circuit printed on a substrate one or more antennas printed on a substrate and a battery . In one embodiment the circuit printed on a substrate may be combined with one or more localization and or communications systems wherein a system may comprise for example receivers transmitters transceivers and or other localization and or communication circuitry. For example the circuit may be combined with receiver and receiver to configure the tracking device to localize and or communicate via GPS Wi Fi Radiofrequency RF Ultrasonic Bluetooth Z Wave ZigBee and or any other localization and or communication technology. In certain embodiments receiver and receiver may represent the same physical circuitry capable of providing communication as well as localization. For instance a receiver and a receiver may both comprise a Wi Fi transceiver. By using paper substrates a circuit may be combined with one or more antennas and a battery to create a durable and lightweight tracking device capable of inexpensive reproduction. The layers of the individual components of the tracking device of may be combined to form a uniform tracking device .

With reference to shown is an exemplary circuit block diagram for a tracking device . A tracking device for example may comprise a battery or alternative power source antennas a microcontroller and a Subscriber Identity Module SIM connector . As discussed above with respect to a battery may include a flexible battery ensuring the tracking device is capable of being bent or folded. Antennas are configured to provide the tracking device and its components with localization and or communication. A SIM connector is configured to facilitate the addition of portable electronics or other circuitry to the tracking device . As a non limiting example a SIM card may be used permitting a mobile communications system to identify the tracking device based on the data residing within the SIM card e.g. a unique tracking device identifier . A microcontroller may be configured to coordinate among the components of the tracking device as may be appreciated.

Moreover a tracking device may comprise one or more receivers transceivers capable of localization and or communication via one or more forms of communication. In the non limiting example of a tracking device may comprise a GPS receiver and Wi Fi transceiver . As will be discussed in greater detail below a Wi Fi transceiver may be to localize the tracking device in the event GPS is unavailable to do so e.g. the tracking device is unable to receive a signal from a GPS system or an acquired signal fails to resolve to an acceptable fix . Although shown utilizing a Wi Fi transceiver and a GPS receiver other receivers and or transceivers may be utilized permitting the tracking device to localize via alternative localization strategies using technologies such as RF Ultrasonic Z wave ZigBee Bluetooth and or any other form of localization and or communication. The tracking device may thus communicate with the present tracking system across multiple differing environments such as indoor and outdoor environments.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes a computing device a client device and or access points which are in data communication with each other via a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks. Access points may include for example wireless access points that may be used to facilitate communication between a tracking device and the network . Alternatively access points may comprise one or more cell sites that facilitate the communication of the tracking device over one or more cellular networks. Such cellular networks may be capable of communicating for example via Code Division Multiple Access CMDA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or any variation thereof. Utilizing a GSM network general packet radio service GPRS services may be used for communication between the access points and the one or more tracking devices . In various embodiments a tracking device may be capable of communication directly with the network without access points and or computing device and or client device as may be appreciated.

The computing device may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the computing device may employ a plurality of computing devices that may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the computing device may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the computing device may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing device for example include a location determination application a device monitoring service and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein.

The location determination application is executed to determine the location of one or more tracking devices as will be discussed in greater detail below. For example location data may be received from one or more tracking devices via any form of communication capable of providing location data associated with the one or more tracking devices . The location of the one or more tracking devices may be determined based at least in part on the location data provided by the tracking device .

The device monitoring service is executed to provide an interface thereby permitting a user to monitor one or more tracking devices . For example the device monitoring service may obtain location data from the location determination application . Subsequently the location data may be transmitted by the device monitoring service to one or more mapping application programming interfaces API . In response a digital map comprising one or more indicators e.g. an icon identifying the location of one or more tracking devices on the digital map may be received by the device monitoring service . This map may be encoded in a user interface e.g. a network page a mobile application page etc. and transmitted to a client for rendering.

The device monitoring service may be further executed to authenticate a user i.e. requiring a user to provide a user name password biometric data etc. prior to presenting and or transmitting information associated with the tracking devices . As a result only information pertaining to tracking devices associated with an account or user ID may be presented to that user.

The data stored in the data store includes for example location data network data Wi Fi data GPS data device identifier ID user ID radio maps and potentially other data. Location data may comprise for example data obtained from one or more tracking devices that may be related to and or may be used in determining the location of the one or more tracking devices . Moreover location data may comprise a position database of all tracking devices whether functional or non functional. Network data may be information related to frames and or packets of information transferred over network . Wi Fi data may comprise information associated with utilizing wireless access points to determine a location of a tracking device . GPS data may comprise information obtained by a tracking device configured to localize via GPS. A device ID may be for example a unique identifier used to identify a tracking device and or a group of tracking devices . A radio map may comprise for example an RF signature map and or an RF signature map history. A radio map may further comprise associations to points in a digital map.

The client is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The client may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc.

The client may be configured to execute various applications such as a client application and or other applications. The client application may be executed in a client for example to access network content served up by the computing device and or other servers thereby rendering a user interface on the display . To this end the client application may comprise for example a browser a dedicated application etc. and the user interface may comprise a network page an application screen etc. The client may be configured to execute applications beyond the client application such as for example email applications social networking applications word processors spreadsheets and or other applications.

The tracking device is representative of a plurality of tracking devices that may be coupled to the network or may localize and or communicate through network via access points . Moreover a tracking device may be configured to receive signals comprising location data and or other communication data from GPS . The tracking device may comprise for example the components of to communicate with network via Wi Fi Ultrasonic Infrared RF Bluetooth Z wave ZigBee and or any wireless communication technology. These components may include one or more receivers transceivers transmitters and or other communication circuitry. Alternatively a tracking device may comprise one or more of a commercially available tracking device as may be appreciated.

An access point may be configured to receive communication from one or more tracking devices translate the communication received into a form of communication e.g. data packets capable of being communicated over network and transmit the communication to for example computing device and or client . Furthermore a tracking device may comprise an identifier which may be communicated through network in order to identify the tracking device as may be appreciated. For example an identifier may be unique to a tracking device .

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin the location determination application may determine the location of one or more tracking devices . For example location data may be received from one or more tracking devices . Location data may be obtained via GPS or any alternative form of wireless communication such as Wi Fi. If the location data was obtained through a GPS receiver location data may comprise for example data that may be processed in order to determine a location of the tracking device . Alternatively in the event localization through GPS was unable to be established by a tracking device a tracking device may have obtained location data from one or more wireless access points . The location data may be transmitted by the tracking device to the computing device over network by utilizing the access points or like devices. Accordingly the location data received from the tracking device may be used in the determination of a location of the tracking device . The location determined may be based at least in part on the location data provided by the tracking device . In addition other data may be used in determining the location such as radio maps etc.

For example location data may have been obtained via a Wi Fi receiver embedded in a tracking device . In this non limiting example Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI methodologies may be used in determining the location of the tracking device by measuring the power of a received signal usually measured in decibels dB of the measured power referenced against one milliwatt mW . Such RSSI methodologies may include RSSI triangulation and or RSSI fingerprinting. RSSI triangulation may comprise triangulating a location of a tracking device using omnidirectional access points in order to determine coordinates of a transceiver embedded within the tracking device .

In RSSI fingerprinting one or more radio maps may be used to compare geo reference RSSI measurements i.e. fingerprints from one or more access points or from the tracking device itself during an online phase. The RSSI measurements may be compared to one or more radio maps to estimate a location of the tracking device based at least in part on the RSSI measurements. A probability distribution function may be applied to determine the highest probability location of the tracking device . During an offline phase RSSI measurements may be used to create radio maps although radio maps may be manually created using alternative technology e.g. radar sonar etc. .

RSSI fingerprinting traditionally observes RSSI measurements of a tracking device measured against three or more access points . A final location may be determined by applying Gaussian mixture models Markov models hidden Markov models etc. against a radio map to determine one location of the tracking device with the highest probability. However three or more locations of the tracking device may be observed against the three or more access points . The three or more locations may be fused to determine a final location utilizing for example a Euclidean Rule based GMM Markov models hidden Markov models etc. classification algorithm.

Although described in an embodiment specific to Wi Fi based access points alternative technologies may be used to conduct RSSI fingerprinting. Technologies that may utilize RSSI fingerprinting may include GSM CDMA Bluetooth Z Wave ZigBee RF Ultrasonic etc. Similarly although described with respect to RSSI other measurements may be utilized in place of or in combination with RSSI in determining a fingerprint of a tracking device such as time of arrival TOA angle of arrival AOA time difference of arrival TDOA uplink time difference of arrival U TDOA and or any combination thereof.

Upon determining the location of one or more tracking devices the location determination application may store the location data and or the location itself in data store in association with a tracking device or its identifier . Accordingly the location data may be used in determining the location of a tracking device over time paths traveled places visited length of time in a location etc.

The device monitoring service is executed to provide an interface thereby permitting a user to monitor one or more tracking devices . For example the device monitoring service may obtain location data from the location determination application . Subsequently the location data may be transmitted by the device monitoring service to a mapping API such as Google Maps Bing Maps Yahoo Maps AOL MapQuest and or any other mapping API. In response a map comprising an indicator e.g. an icon identifying the location of tracking device on a map may be received by the device monitoring service . This map may be encoded in a user interface e.g. a network page a mobile application page etc. and transmitted to a client for rendering. The user interface may comprise additional information about the tracking devices such as geocoded addresses duration at a location routes traveled and or any other information about the tracking devices .

The device monitoring service may require authentication from a user i.e. requiring a user to provide a user name password biometric data etc. prior to presenting and or transmitting information associated with the tracking devices . Accordingly a unique user account or user ID used during authentication may be associated with one or more tracking devices . As a result only information pertaining to tracking devices associated with an account or user ID may be presented to that user.

Referring next to shown is an exemplary embodiment of a user interface rendered in a client application for example on a client not shown . In the non limiting example of the device monitoring service may render a user interface embodied in as a network page comprising a digital map . As discussed above with respect to determined locations of tracking devices not shown may be transmitted to one or more mapping services by communicating for example through the mapping service s API. In return the mapping service provides the device monitoring service a digital map comprising the determined locations that may be identified with an icon. The device monitoring service may encode the digital map in a network page to be transmitted to a client for rendering. Additionally the digital map may be updated in real time by making subsequent calls to the one or more mapping services upon a request by a user or upon the occurrence of a predefined condition. For example the digital map may be updated and or re rendered upon a predefined delay and or upon noticeable movement of a tracking device .

Moreover information associated with the tracking devices may be encoded in the user interface . For example an address of each tracking device may be determined utilizing geocoding or like technique. Additionally statistics associated with the location of the tracking device also may be determined and encoded in the network page. For example a time in a location metric may be encoded in the network page to show a length of time a tracking device has remained in a particular position or range of positions.

As may be appreciated the device monitoring service may require authentication i.e. requiring a user to provide a user name password biometric data etc. before presenting and or transmitting information associated with the tracking devices . Accordingly a user account or user ID used during authentication may be associated with one or more tracking devices . As a result only information pertaining to tracking devices associated with an account or user ID may be presented.

Turning now to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the tracking device according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the tracking device as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box a determination is made whether the tracking device is able to localize via GPS. For example a GPS receiver embedded in the tracking device may attempt to receive one or more signals from one or more satellites. When indoors or in congested areas or in other similar environments GPS signals may be inhibited. Thus the GPS receiver embedded in the tracking device may be unable to receive signals from any GPS satellite. If a tracking device via its GPS receiver is able to localize e.g. obtain location data via a signal from a GPS satellite in box GPS may be used in obtaining location data . When using a GPS receiver location data may comprise for example data from the signal obtained from one or more GPS satellites as well as data used in computing a location of the tracking device .

Alternatively if a tracking device is unable to localize via GPS in box an alternative localization strategy may be attempted to obtain location data. An alternative localization strategy may comprise for example using Wi Fi RF Ultrasonic Bluetooth Z Wave ZigBee or any other technology to localize the tracking device . In one embodiment Wi Fi may be used in order to obtain location data . One or more receivers may be embedded in a tracking device capable of communicating via one or more of these technologies as may be appreciated. For example a Wi Fi receiver embedded on the tracking device may attempt communication with one or more Wi Fi wireless access points . As may be appreciated other receivers may be embedded in the event a GPS signal or Wi Fi signal is unable to be obtained and or communication established.

By localizing via Wi Fi or any alternative form of localization in the event GPS is unavailable a tracking device may be capable of a seamless transition for outdoor to indoor tracking and vice versa. Ultimately in box the location data obtained via GPS box or the alternative localization strategy box may be transmitted to for example a computing device . The location data may be processed in the computing device to determine a location of the tracking device as will be discussed in greater detail below.

Moving on to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the location determination application and or the device monitoring service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the location determination application and or the device monitoring service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box location data may be received from one or more tracking devices . As discussed above with respect to location data may be obtained via GPS or any alternative form of localization. If the location data was obtained through a GPS receiver location data may comprise for example data that may be processed in order to determine a location of the tracking device . Alternatively in the event localization through GPS was unable to be established by a tracking device a tracking device may have obtained location data from one or more wireless access points. The location data may be transmitted by the tracking device to a computing device over network by utilizing the wireless access points or like devices.

In box the location data received from the tracking device may be used to determine a location of the tracking device . The location determined may be based at least in part on the location data provided by the tracking device . In addition other data may be used in determining the location such as radio maps etc.

For example location data may have been obtained via a Wi Fi receiver embedded in a tracking device . In one embodiment Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI methodologies may be used in determining the location of the tracking device by measuring the power of a received signal. The RSSI methodologies may include RSSI triangulation and or RSSI fingerprinting. As discussed above with respect to three or more locations of the tracking device may be observed against three or more access points . The three or more locations may be fused to determine a final location utilizing GMM Morkov models etc. rather than the traditional RSSI fingerprinting approach.

Next in box the location data and or the location itself may be stored in data store in association with a tracking device or its identifier . Accordingly the location data may be used in determining the location of a tracking device over time paths traveled places visited etc.

In box the location data may be transmitted to a mapping API such as Google Maps Bing Maps Yahoo Maps AOL MapQuest and or any other mapping API. As may be appreciated the location determined in box of a tracking device or many locations of many tracking devices may be transmitted to the mapping API. In response a map such as a digital map comprising an indicator e.g. an icon identifying the location of tracking device on a map may be received in box . In box this map may be encoded in a user interface e.g. a network page a mobile application page etc. . Finally in box the user interface may be transmitted to a client for rendering.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes one or more computing devices . Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end each computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are a location determination application a device monitoring service and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the location determination application the device monitoring service and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the tracking device the location determination application and the device monitoring service . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the location determination application and the device monitoring service that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

