---

title: Integrating offsite activities related to chat and text messaging with online data records
abstract: Various systems and associated methods for tracking chats, text messages, and other user interactions. The process generates at least one identifier, distributes at least one identifier to at least one system, uses the at least one identifier to associate interactions with network-based content across different entities, whereby at least one interaction is anonymous. The method involves receiving a request sent to a database stored on a computer readable medium in response to online activity and any collected or known user information, creating a record thereof in response to the request, generating an identifier associated therewith, generating a code corresponding thereto, and using the identifier to associate an incoming text message, chat, resulting financial transactions, follow-on activities, etc. with associated online activity and user information. The association happens through remote communication with a system that receives and sends the incoming text message or chat requests.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491249&OS=09491249&RS=09491249
owner: 
number: 09491249
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20151217
---
The present disclosure generally relates to a method for associating at least two user interactions with network based entities where at least one of the interactions is anonymous in nature. The method is illustrated as an implementation for Short Message Services SMS chats and leads tracking and management. More particularly the present invention is directed towards a method for recording information related to chats and text messages that are triggered or initiated from network based content and associating the recorded information with information about the sending or receiving party collected by external systems such as web analytics software advertising platforms or phone systems and managing the information.

Businesses commonly advertise through many different media in order to attract leads. Advertisements commonly referred to as ads reach customers by way of a variety of modalities including online websites printed publications radio and television broadcasts direct mailings emails and other mediums in which customers are likely to receive the ads.

Increasingly businesses are focusing their advertising efforts on online or Internet advertisements. As online advertising spending continues to climb there is a strong interest in being able to attribute customer actions to a particular advertisement or marketing channel. Actions that occur during a visit to a website such as submitting an inquiry form downloading a file and the like can be tracked and associated with other visitor information including a visitor source channel a searched keyword term and the like. However offline actions such as Short Message Services SMS Multimedia Messaging Services MMS and the like commonly referred to as text messages cannot typically be tracked in the same manner.

Current methods for associating text messages with visitor data involve assigning a unique telephone number to each advertisement created. In this scenario if a visitor sends a text message to a business by way of a particular telephone number it can be assumed that the visitor viewed the associated advertisement that displayed that specific telephone number. This method of associating a text message with a website visit is inefficient because it requires a business to purchase a large number of telephone numbers such that each advertisement can be associated with its own telephone number.

Another alternative known method involves dynamically assigning forwarding telephone numbers for each visit and or page view. This alternative known method creates an increasing uncertainty when the number of visitors and page views increases and or when tracked details are more refined. For example tracking keywords compared to merely tracking all visits from organic searches. This is because a finite number of telephone numbers are spread and recycled through an increasing number of possible visit information combinations. For instance if an interior design company merely tracked a visitor source all visits from organic searches would be assigned the same telephone number. However to track each keyword searched a unique telephone number would be assigned to each phrase. Thus sofa upholstery and couch upholstery would require different telephone numbers. Since the business owns a finite pool of telephone numbers which are dynamically assigned and reused the method of dynamically assigning and reusing the telephone numbers increases the likelihood that an identical phone number would be reused frequently enough to render the system error prone.

Additionally if the telephone number is displayed on multiple areas on the web page this method would not be capable of disclosing which telephone number a visitor clicked to text. Such data would be important for a business attempting to understand which area of the web page attracts the attention of the visitors. To accomplish this with the current method a business would need to feature different telephone numbers on the same page which would be impractical.

Furthermore the current method for associating a chat or text message with a website visit uses analytics collected by the SMS or a chat tracking system independently which does not connect the tracking to the website s existing web analytics system. This approach limits the availability of data since the website s analytics system specializes in collecting a wide array of visitor data.

Additionally current tracking methods interfere with the branding efforts of businesses as it may be desirable for customers to associate a particular business with a particular or memorable telephone number.

Furthermore traditional tracking methods involve passing an SMS through the mentioned tracking numbers which incurs charges based on the usage of the network associated with these numbers for instance per SMS sent or received . For a business with substantial SMS volume the cost associated with such a setup is significant.

What is desired is a method for connecting text messages and chat data to one or more computer systems that issue user level identifiers. The desired method would unleash a stream of opportunities for improved analytics and operations of a business.

Introduced here is technology for associating at least two standalone user interactions where at least one of the interactions is anonymous. Thus a network based entity such as a website or mobile application generates an identifier and associates the generated identifier with certain user activity. The entity incorporates the identifier into properties that lead the user off the entity. For instance the entity may incorporate the identifier into a link for example as a query string a query parameter and the like that when clicked or selected leads the user to another network based entity. When the user clicks the link and lands at the second entity the second entity intercepts the identifier. The second entity then uses the identifier to request from the first entity all of the details collected by the first entity about the user s interactions.

The technology is illustrated using a method for chat SMS and leads tracking and management including a system and method for bringing SMS into an online context enabling the association of SMS with online data. This can be accomplished by tracking SMS in a similar manner to on website events such as chat requests. The terms leads and prospects generally refer to prospective customers herein. Methods and systems described herein can facilitate tracking recording and associating data about the online SMS and offline activities of leads or prospective customers. Advantageously the methods described herein can utilize a single telephone number which can be an existing telephone number belonging to a business maintained by a business or maintained for a business.

The specific details which involve repeated communications between a user s browser website analytics system and leads database are more fully described below.

Various systems for tracking chats text messages and or leads are disclosed herein. The system may include one or more non transitory computer readable storage mediums storing instructions that when executed by a computing system cause the computing system to perform a method to track activity by associating interactions across network based entities. A method executed by the computing system may include the steps discussed with respect to any or all of the above described methods of tracking chats text messages and other interactions.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the invention consists of a tracking system comprising 

In a second aspect the at least one of the plurality of computers is characterized by at least one of the following 

In another aspect the at least one of the plurality of computers is characterized by at least one of the following 

In yet another aspect the at least one of the plurality of computers is characterized by at least one of the following 

In yet another aspect the first computer system comprises a plurality of first computer systems the method further comprises steps of 

In yet another aspect the step of appending the user level identifier to the at least one of the text message and the chat message is accomplished by appending the user level identifier as one of 

In accordance with a first variant of the present invention the invention consists of a tracking system comprising 

In accordance with a second variant of the present invention the invention consists of a tracking system comprising 

These and other aspects features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent from the attached drawings and the detailed description of the preferred embodiments which follow.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of the exemplary embodiments. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to bibliographical meanings or any extrinsic dictionary definition but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the disclosure. The terms used herein must be understood based on the descriptions made herein and are defined herein according to the functions of the present disclosure. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. Descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

A Target Website refers to a website that a Business maintains on one or more server computers. A Target Website may display a telephone number such that a visitor to the Target Website can send a text message to Business via the telephone number displayed on the Target Website.

A user refers to a person who visits the Target Website or accesses any other network based content for example a marketing property of Business.

A Tracker refers to at least one of an entity and a service wherein the Tracker is typically external to a Business. The Tracker tracks and associates data related to user activity from accessing network based content of Business. In general the Tracker can adapt to any external system or service that the Target Website selects provided that such system has a public facing Application Programming Interface API that allows for remote calls for retrieval additions recording and or alterations of data. In some embodiments the Tracker can also or instead associate data collected after a User s interaction with Business for example data relating to a purchase following a text message conversation with data related to the User having accessed network based content of a Business for example a website . The Tracker can communicate with other systems for example Communications Provider Capable Entity Lead Manager Chat Software Analytics Account Advertising Account Foreign Domain and the like by way of HTTP POST requests HTTP GET requests and the like or a combination thereof.

A Lead Manager is one example of an external service referred to above e.g. a leads management system. Examples of suitable leads management systems can include those provided by FUTURE SIMPLE SALESFORCE and the like. A similar example is a message management dashboard utilized by a support center such as CONTACTATONCE.

A Chat Software is another example of an external service referred to above e.g. a provider of software that allows web visitors to communicate with Business via a chat window presented on the Target Website. Examples of such software programs can include those provided by LIVECHAT LIVEPERSON and the like.

A Communications Provider refers to a communications service that enables forwarding incoming text messages to pages of code. Possible examples of a Communications Provider include TWILIO PLIVO and BANDWIDTH.

A Tracking Number is a number that Business can maintain at Communications Provider. A Tracking Number can be a general number for online inquiries and can be configured to generically forward text messages if no code is identified. Alternatively the Target Website can maintain a telephone number outside of Communications Provider and can have all text messages forwarded to a designated Tracking Number at Communications Provider.

An Analytics Account is an account of an analytics tool system of Business which is another example of an external service referred to above and an example of such an analytics tool system is GOOGLE ANALYTICS.

An Advertising Account is an account with an online advertising platform which is another example of an external service referred to above and an example of such an online advertising platform is GOOGLE ADWORDS. The advertising platform can be for example any advertising platform that can accept remote requests and or imported conversions in the form of file uploads for example. The advertising platform can also refer to a media buying platform that incorporates information about a User s activity into its algorithms.

A Tracking Cookie is a cookie that can be used to track online activity. A Tracking Cookie can be associated with an analytics tool such as that provided by GOOGLE ANALYTICS or the like where the cookie can be the  utma or  utmb cookie utilized by GOOGLE ANALYTICS. The  utma cookie values are used to distinguish users and sessions and are created when a JAVASCRIPT library executes and no existing  utma cookies exist. The  utma cookie is updated every time data is sent to GOOGLE ANALYTICS. The  utmb cookie values are used to determine new sessions visits and are created when the JAVASCRIPT library executes and no existing  utmb cookies exist. The  utmb cookie is updated every time data is sent to GOOGLE ANALYTICS. Alternatively a Tracking Cookie can be associated with an advertising platform such as that provided by GOOGLE ADWORDS or the like where the cookie would be the globally unique tracking parameter or GOOGLE Click Identifier gclid utilized by GOOGLE ADWORDS. A Tracking Cookie can have a Tracking Cookie value that can be used to distinguish among Users and sessions. Such cookies can be created when at least one of a the JAVASCRIPT library executes and b when no existing tracking cookies exist.

Note that although the methods introduced here are described as using GOOGLE ANALYTICS any other cookie based analytics system that uses unique values to identify the Users and visits and that can be queried for visitor details associated with a label could be substituted. The methods can also be modified to accommodate an analytics system that does not utilize cookies and instead relies on user specific profile IDs or a similar unique variable to identify a user provided that the profile ID can be retrieved and queried remotely and that subsequent information associated with the profile ID can be recorded remotely.

A Remote Tracking Request refers to a request sent from a server to the Analytics Account using the Tracking Cookie value.

An Operator is an employee or agent of a Business whether real or virtual handling lead management on behalf of the Business.

A Foreign Domain is an online property other than the Target Website where Business can display a telephone number such as a classified ads website e.g. Craigslist .

A Capable Entity is Business with a system capable of collecting incoming text messages and communicating the information to an external system via the Internet. Such a system can be managed internally by Business or outsourced to a provider of such systems. Note that certain Communications Providers can also qualify as Capable Entity.

In the exemplary flow diagram illustrated in the User can execute an action at step that takes the User to the Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. Next a request can be sent to the Tracker once the Target Website has loaded at step . The request can be sent from the User s browser to the Tracker using a JAVASCRIPT snippet that Business adds to a Target Website s code. The JAVASCRIPT can reference code on the Target Website or the Tracker. Alternatively the Target Website can make a server side request to the Tracker as soon as the User s browser sends a request to load pages from the Target Website before the Target Website has actually loaded at the User s browser.

At step the Tracker can create a new lead record in the Target Website s leads database table and can send back a record identification code to the User s browser. The record identification code or record ID mentioned herein assists the Tracker in uniquely identifying the record in its database. The User s browser can receive the record identification code at step and can send a request to the Analytics Account. If the Analytics Account used were GOOGLE ANALYTICS the request can be a trackEvent request labeled with the record identification code. The User s browser can then send a request to append the record identification code to Chat Software at step . At step Chat Software can notify the Tracker that the User activates a chat window. Note that depending on Chat Software certain software includes this step while other software excludes this step and the method can simply skip to the next step instead. The Tracker can then connect to the Analytics Account and query for all visitor details associated with the request labeled with the record identification code at step . Using the chat ID visitor ID or token provided by Chat Software the Tracker can communicate this information to Chat Software at step . At step the Operator can see all the visitor details next to the chat request in the Chat Software dashboard.

There are several alternatives to sending the request referenced in step . In one scenario the Tracker can utilize an identifier that has already been created. For instance the Tracker can collect a Tracking Cookie and use this value in lieu of generating the Tracker s record identification code.

Another possibility can involve submitting the tracking data together with the chat request at step . The code can populate the available data into a database of the Tracker or another system such as Lead Manager. Note that in this alternative data related to accessing network based content is limited to the information available and collected at the time of the connection request e.g. information specific to the connection request cannot be collected later . This can be remedied by collecting and submitting a Tracking Cookie with the connection request and later using the Tracking Cookie to send a Remote Tracking Request that incorporates a record identification code which would then permit retrieving information specific to the record at the external system via another remote request.

Yet another scenario can involve the Tracker establishing its own tracking data which can be submitted together with the connection request at step . This data can be associated with an identifier generated by the Tracker such as a Tracking Cookie or a pre specified identifier such as an IP address. If the data is associated with an identifier the Tracker can elect to send only the identifier at step and use that identifier to retrieve additional data later.

In any scenario where data is available prior to the connection request the Tracker can utilize the data to route the connection request. For instance the Tracker can decide to route a connection request associated with a visit from a web search to a certain destination e.g. network locator and a connection request associated with a visit from a banner ad to another destination e.g. network locator . As a result the chat request can be routed to a specific Operator using the User s activity to optimize this process. If the Tracker elects to use the data to assign records to a specific Operator the Tracker can follow rules pre specified by Business.

In another variant the method can be applied to track SMS messages following the flow chart illustrated in . The User can execute an action at step that takes the User to the Target Website such as clicking on an ad clicking on a search link or clicking on a referring link etc. At step upon entering website the User can see an empty text now link. When the User clicks the link at step a request can be sent to the Tracker. The request can be sent from the User s browser to the Tracker using a JAVASCRIPT snippet that Business adds to the Target Website s code. The JAVASCRIPT can reference code on the Target Website or the Tracker. Alternatively the Target Website can make a server side request to the Tracker as soon as the User s browser sends a request to load pages from the Target Website before the Target Website has actually loaded at the User s browser. Then at step the Tracker can create a new blank lead record and can generate a record identification code associated with the lead record.

In step the Tracker can store the record identification code in a temporary table and assigns to it a temporary proxy code which can be a shorter single digit such as 1. The record identification code Tracking Number and the proxy code can then be sent to the User s browser. The User s browser can receive the record identification code at step and can send a request to the Analytics Account such as a trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS labeled with the record identification code. Using JAVASCRIPT the Tracker can then instruct the User s browser to populate the text now link with the Tracking Number and temporary code at step . In step the User s phone can switch to the phone s native SMS application or a default one used to handle text messages and the temporary code can be inserted at the beginning of the message body. For instance the message can be pre populated with the words Ref . The User can type the text message following the words and tap Send at step . At step the text message can be sent to the Tracking Number can be received by Communications Provider and can be forwarded to a page of code e.g. a page in a server side programming language for example PHP at the Tracker that can parse the message body extracting the temporary code.

In step the Tracker can search the Tracker s database for the temporary code locate the record identification code associate the text message with the record identification code and delete the record identification code and the temporary code from the temporary table making the temporary code available for re use by the system. The Tracker can then associate the rest of the text message body e.g. everything after the temporary code with the record in step . At step the Tracker can connect to the Analytics Account and query for all visitor details related to the request labeled with the record identification code. Finally in step the Tracker can utilize the information obtained from the Analytics Account to automatically route the text message to a specific Operator. In this process the Tracker can follow preset rules defined by Business.

In another variant the method can be adapted to integrate with any Lead Manager as shown in exemplary flow diagram illustrated in . Herein the Tracker acts as an interpreter between Lead Manager Communications Provider and the Analytics Account. The Tracker can generate an ID or record identification code send the code to both Lead Manager and Analytics Account and forward the text message to Business. In the exemplary flow diagram of steps are similar to steps described in . At step the Tracker can send a create request to Lead Manager such as SALESFORCE which can return a record identification code. This record identification code can then be used in lieu of the Tracker s own record identification code. Alternatively the Tracker can still generate the Tracker s own record identification code and associate Lead Manager s record identification code with the Tracker s identification code. Steps are similar to steps in . In step the Tracker can connect to the Analytics Account and retrieve all details associated with the request from step similar to step . In addition the Tracker can populate the record at Lead Manager with the information obtained from the Analytics Account. For example if the Lead Manager were SALESFORCE the Tracker can populate the Campaign object in SALESFORCE.

Another exemplary flow diagram describing the technology introduced herein is illustrated in . In the exemplary flow diagram illustrated in the method is illustrated using an alternate analytics software. Instead of using GOOGLE ANALYTICS as described above in the method can use SALESFORCE as the Lead Manager and CLICKY ANALYTICS as the Analytics Account. In the illustrated embodiment steps are similar to steps in . At step the Tracker can send a request to the Analytics Account labeled with the identification code such as a log request titled with the identification code to CLICKY ANALYTICS. The remaining steps are similar to steps in .

Yet another exemplary flow diagram describing the technology introduced herein is illustrated in more specifically a system that tracks and associates activity across the SMS and mobile browser applications. In the exemplary flow diagram illustrated in the method can be adapted to associate multiple user interactions across different entities where at least one of the interactions is anonymous. An entity can be any form of managed network based content such as a website or an application. An anonymous interaction refers to one where the User is not personally identified for instance by entering user specific information such as an e mail address. Note that the anonymity of an interaction can also be measured by its scope. Thus a personally identified interaction with one entity can be anonymous to another entity. For instance the interaction of a logged in User browsing products inside a clothing brand s mobile device application is personally identified to the operator of the application. However when the User clicks to call e mail or send a text message to the brand s support team the User s device will navigate to another application such as the phone e mail or SMS application of the device. From the perspective of any of the phone e mail or SMS applications as well as the brand s support system the User s preceding interaction with the clothing brand s application is anonymous. Similarly to the clothing brand s application operator the User s interaction with the phone e mail or SMS applications as well as the brand s support system is anonymous.

The exemplary flow diagram illustrated in enables linking such two interactions by issuing a common identifier. In this embodiment an entity such as an application can collect information about user interactions with the properties such entity operates and can associate it with an identifier. The identifier can be issued by the entity or a third party. The entity can attach the identifier to any activity that leads the User outside of the entity operated properties for instance by appending the identifier to the URLs of outgoing links as a query string parameter. When the User clicks the URL and is led to a second entity the second entity can infer the identifier and use it to request from the first entity all of the information the first entity collected about the User. Further the second entity can also embed the same identifier to continue tracking the User s activity across additional entities.

Steps introduced in are similar to steps from . In step the Operator can reply to the User embedding in the message a link to open Business mobile application. Note that the Operator can also communicate with the User through e mail messages. The Tracker can append the record ID to the link for instance by appending it to as a query string parameter and can forward the message to the User s phone. If the User s device is running the iOs operating system from APPLE the link can be trackedAppName identifier User12345.

Note that the link can also be an HTML link that redirects to a device specific link. This can be accomplished using the browser s window location Javascript command. An HTML link can be minimized with a URL shortening service creating a user friendly link that can be inserted in text messages which often have limited character length. For instance the HTML link corresponding to the example native link given above can be http tracker.com app trackedAppName identifier User12345. In step the User clicks the link and the application opens on the User s phone. The entity operating the application infers the identifier and uses it to request from the Tracker details about the User s conversation with the Operator in step . Note that entity can also embed the identifier in outgoing URLs thereby passing it forward to other entities. In addition the entity can use the information obtained from the Tracker to record information about the source of the visit in entity s activity tracking system.

In yet another embodiment the system can be modified to enable sophisticated remarketing efforts. Specifically Business can create remarketing lists associated with pre specified criteria within its Analytics Account such as event categories in GOOGLE ANALYTICS. The Tracker can store the Tracking Cookie values associated with the visit that triggers a text message together with the new lead record and can use those values to send a Remote Tracking Request to the Analytics Account at a later date such as when the Operator marks a lead record as Converted in the Tracker s dashboard. Essentially this allows Business to record information about leads such as purchases in a manner similar to e commerce transactions even if the actual sale occurs days weeks or months later and without any action taken by the lead. When the request registers the lead s cookie information is automatically added to the pre specified remarketing list just as if the lead took a pre specified action on the Target Website. Using a combination of such lists Business can then segment for targeted advertising the customers that called but never converted. Examples of the method are outlined in for text messages and for chat requests.

In both methods the system can be modified to include remarketing tags which enable adding visitors to lists that enable targeted marketing. For instance events with different action categories can be added at different times throughout the interaction e.g. when a text is initiated a conversation has ended etc. This adds the prospects to related lists and enables targeting for example users who attempted but never sent a text message. Further by storing a visitor s Tracking Cookie values such as the  utma or  ga cookie values utilized by GOOGLE ANALYTICS the system can also automatically add Converted events when the Operator tags lead records as such which in the Analytics Account would be associated with the original visits that triggered an action. This would allow Business to segment for advertising visitors at different stages of the customer lifecycle and connect online behavior patterns to offline interactions. Note that although the methods are described using GOOGLE ANALYTICS and cookies that the same methods can be implemented using any identifier that distinguishes users and or sessions on any device.

An embodiment of this method is illustrated in . In step Business can create in the Analytics Account a separate remarketing list for each request type for example a separate remarketing list for each event category in GOOGLE ANALYTICS. Steps are similar to steps in . At step the Tracker can utilize the stored Tracking Cookie value to send a Remote Tracking Request to the Analytics Account which can be labeled with the record identification code. For example the Tracker can send a server side trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS categorized Text Sent and labeled with the record identification code. Note that the request at step can also alternatively occur as a server side request using the Tracking Cookie value stored in step . In step when the Operator later tags the lead record Converted in the Tracker dashboard the Tracker can use the stored Tracking Cookie to send another Remote Tracking Request which can be labeled with the record identification code. For example the Tracker can send a server side trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS categorized Converted and labeled with the record identification code. As with each of the previous tracking requests this can cause the visitor cookie to automatically be added to the associated remarketing list at step and using these lists Business can then create new lists with custom combinations e.g. Text Sent but not Converted. 

The remarketing method can also be adapted to the chat tracking methodology as illustrated in . An embodiment is illustrated in . Step is similar to step in . Steps are similar to steps from with the initial request to the Analytics Account sent only when the User initiates a chat as an alternative. Note that this request can also occur as a server side request similar to the request in step from outlined above. At step when the chat ends the Tracker can receive a notification from Chat Software with the record ID. The Tracker can use the record ID to locate the associated Tracking Cookie at step . At step the Tracker can use the Tracking Cookie to send a Remote Tracking Request to the Analytics Account which can be labeled with the record identification code. For example the Tracker can send a server side trackEvent request to GOOGLE ANALYTICS categorized Chat Completed and labeled with the record identification code. Steps are similar to steps in .

The remarketing method can be adapted to work with any Lead Manager. This can be accomplished by creating a custom field for each lead record that stores the Tracking Cookie along with a custom Status field that when changed will trigger the Tracker to send to the Analytics Account a Remote Tracking Request. Alternatively the Tracker can query the external leads system in regular intervals e.g. hourly or daily and send a Remote Tracking Request for any updated or newly tagged records. Moreover the method can be adapted to track information on attributes other than a lead s conversion status that Business could possess such as indicated interests in a specific service category or demographic information.

Furthermore the method can be adapted to other types of user lists that involve a recordable action taken on a website such as newsletter signups. Thus Business can choose to track and create specialized advertising for leads that sign up for a sports newsletter and indicate a specific interest in soccer using lists from its e mail marketing software such as MAILCHIMP. The method can also be adapted to record offline actions taken by leads such as a meeting with Business. In all of these cases sending the data to any external account such as an Analytics Account or an Advertising Account can assist in adjusting follow on advertising personalizing an experience including content or simply facilitate Business efforts in analyzing how online behavior correlates with offline activity.

The method can also be used for other purposes. For instance when the User revisits the Target Website the Target Website can collect the User s Tracking Cookie and send it to the Tracker. The Tracker would then search its database for a match and communicate to the Target Website information about the User s previous activity as well as any applied tags sales and other pertinent data. The Target Website can then utilize the information as needed whether to adjust content communicate activity to other systems and the like.

Furthermore the method can also be adapted to an automated scenario that does not require direct the Operator intervention in order to record information about leads. This would typically involve additional systems. For instance using text recognition technology the method can automatically detect a lead s expressed interest in a specific product or service and create and send tags based on this information. Alternatively using machine learning or other algorithms the Tracker can automatically read information entered by the Operator in a lead record and create and send tags based on this information.

The system can be further adapted to record chats and text messages as conversions in an Advertising Account by recording the corresponding Tracking Cookie such as the globally unique tracking parameter or GOOGLE Click Identifier gclid associated with GOOGLE ADWORDS. With GOOGLE ADWORDS recording the gclid parameter enables the system to generate a MICROSOFT EXCEL or similar spreadsheet software file that can be imported as offline conversions into the GOOGLE ADWORDS account. Prior to generating the file the Operator can manually delete within the system any records that do not qualify as conversions such as promotional messages. One such embodiment is illustrated in .

At step in Business can create in Advertising Account a conversion for text messages such as an offline conversion type named Text Message in GOOGLE ADWORDS. Steps are similar to steps in with the GCLID as the Tracking Cookie sent in step and stored in step . At step the Tracker can record the current time as the conversion time in addition to associating the text message with the record ID and deleting the temporary code making the code available for re use. The Operator can review the text message log at step decides which conversations should qualify as conversions and mark all the conversations to be reported. At step the Tracker can generate a file that can be imported into the Advertising Account. In the case of GOOGLE ADWORDS this can be an EXCEL file with the gclid conversion name e.g. Text Message and time of each conversion from the database. The Operator can import the file into the Advertising Account. This methodology results in step with Advertising Account conversion reports having more complete data associated with each ad incorporating different conversion types such as offline conversions in GOOGLE ADWORDS. A similar methodology can be applied to chat conversations as well.

Further to the description of when displaying the sources of visits associated with text messages and or chats the Tracker can aggregate identical ads to provide a more insightful performance report. Specifically the Tracker can query the Advertising Account periodically obtaining the ads content and targeting metrics. These can be matched against the Tracker s existing information. Within the Tracker s database IDs of multiple ads with identical content and targeting metrics can be given a single master ad ID stored together with the ad content and targeting metrics. When the Tracker retrieves visitor source information from external systems each text message or chat record can be associated with the master ad ID of the ad ID that was clicked rather than the ad ID itself . A similar process is performed on the search queries entered by the User that triggered the ad impressions the system can maintain a phrases table with an ID assigned to each phrase and can attempt to match new search queries obtained from the analytics system against existing values. If a phrase matches an existing record the phrase ID is associated with the record otherwise a new phrase record and ID can be created. In addition to reducing duplication pairing this indexing of ads and keywords with User tags helps discover patterns e.g. the ad keyword combinations that generate the most revenue.

Yet another embodiment enables tracking text messages that originate on Foreign Domain. An example of such an embodiment is illustrated in . This method is useful for analyzing activity from off site marketing properties by tracking text messages originating in clicks on an ad placed in Foreign Domain such as classifieds websites e.g. Craigslist . Business can create a new ad record in a central database operated by the Tracker at step specifying the domain name on which the ad will run e.g. craigslist.org. The Tracker can store each ad at step which has a record ad ID with a corresponding URI which points to a webpage. The URL is based on the ad II and a Target Website s username. An example URL can be www.tracker.com offsite tracking username TargetWebsite adID 5. Business can add the URL to the ad HTML such as inserting it into a Text Us link within the ad and can post the ad on Foreign Domain such as craigslist.org at step .

The User can visit the third party website see the ad and Like action by clicking the Text Us link at step . The URL can verify that the referrer information matches the domain entered by Business and once open a JAVASCRIPT snippet can intercept the ad ID and the Target Website s username. The snippet can initiate a request with the ad ID and the Target Website s username to the Tracker at step . At step the Tracker can proceed to create a new lead record associated with the ad ID and the Target Website and assign a record identification number at step . The remaining steps are similar to steps in . The Tracker can also initiate a Remote Tracking Request to the Analytics Account indicating that a text message from Foreign Domain has occurred. Alternatively Business can generate a QR code that points to the URL and feature it on a print ad. When scanned with a mobile device the User s browser can be automatically redirected to the URL creating a scan to text functionality similar to the click to text outlined above.

Another embodiment as shown in forwards the incoming text from the User to multiple Operators and connects the User with the first Operator that answers. This embodiment also allows the Operator to associate text messages with visitor data by communicating with the Tracker using SMS. Note that although these two features are described in a single embodiment they are modularly independent. Steps are similar to steps in . At step the Tracker can instruct Communications Provider to forward the User s text to all of the telephone numbers of Operators associated with Business. At step when one of the Operators replies the Tracker can record that Operator s number and communicate all further incoming text messages from the User only to that Operator s telephone number. Further at step the Operator can send the Tracker a text message with the record identification code and a few notes. For instance the Operator can type Ref needs follow up on Tuesday. At step the Tracker can receive the text use a method similar to step to parse the message body and collect the temporary code identify the associated record identification code and can then proceed to use the code to associate the remaining portion of the text message body with the text message conversation which can be displayed as a note in the Tracker dashboard.

When generating the temporary code the Tracker can insert designated Special Symbols e.g. one or more symbols characters or digits . This would allow the Tracker to issue the same short temporary code to more than one party simultaneously provided that in each additional simultaneous instance a Special Symbol such as or is appended to the code. For example the Tracker can maintain temporary codes table for interactions on devices running the iOs operating system by APPLE and another temporary codes table for devices running the Anroid operating system by GOOGLE. To differentiate interactions the Tracker can append or prepend a key to a generated code for iOs device interactions while Anroid device interactions codes can be appended a different key or no key or vice versa . Thus the Tracker can assign the code 1 to two distinct interactions simultaneously in the form of 1 and 1 .

When analyzing the code the Tracker can look for the Special Symbol and can use the Special Symbol to determine the appropriate table to search for the temporary code. Alternatively the Tracker can store all codes in a single table utilizing one or more Special Symbols simply to enable use of otherwise identical temporary codes simultaneously. With the Special Symbols implemented a temporary code of a certain number of digits can be used to track a larger number of simultaneous interactions thereby improving scalability e.g. a 3 digit code length without Special Symbols can track up to 999 simultaneous interactions a 3 digit code with Special Symbols appended or prepended can track a multiple of this number .

In yet another embodiment of the technology collected data can be aggregated into visual analytics reports. As shown in in step the User can take an action that takes the User to the Target Website. For example the User can click on an ad a search link or on a referring link etc. to direct the User to the Target Website. Several text links buttons or a combination thereof can be loaded on the page at the Target Website at step . Each such text button or link element can have an Element ID for instance by altering the ID attribute of the HTML link tag. This Element ID attribute can be defined in the HTML or attached dynamically through JAVASCRIPT code. When the User clicks any of the elements at step a JAVASCRIPT can execute collecting the clicked link or button Element ID as well as the current page URL and sending it to the Tracker. The Tracker can create a new blank record in its database associated with the Target Website populate it with the Element ID and page URL and can generate a record ID at step . Steps are similar to steps in .

In step the Tracker retrieves the HTML code of each page URL that is associated with at least one record in its database. This can be achieved by querying the records for unique values of page URLs provided that these have been standardized e.g. cleaned of prefixes such as http https or www as well as webpage file extensions GET variables and the like . To retrieve the HTML code the Tracker can initiate a cURL request to the appropriate URL at the Target Website. As described in step the Tracker can use the HTML code retrieved in step to display a simulated version of the webpage with an overlay visualizing the click popularity of each text element. This would be calculated by summing the number of text message or chat records associated with each Element ID over a specified time period. the Tracker can then utilize a color scale to visually indicate the popularity of each Element ID in triggering interactions. For instance the scale can vary from red to blue with the most frequently clicked elements colored in red and the least frequently clicked elements colored in blue.

Another embodiment shown in allows the Operator to associate financial transactions resulting from text messages or chats with visitor information. This is accomplished by entering information in a system that interprets the data into a format suitable for sending to a website analytics system where such data is associated with the visitor information. Steps are similar to steps in . During the text message and chat conversation or following the system can display the record to the Operator in a UI. The Operator can use the UI to enter information obtained during the conversation for instance the amount of sale revenue generated. Alternatively the Operator can return to the record at a later date to enter a sale amount when such a transaction actually closed. To locate the correct record the Operator can read to the original text message conversation refer to information automatically entered by the Tracker such as the lead s telephone number or consult information entered by the Operator during the original conversation or at a later date such as the User s name and any relevant notes.

When the Operator enters the sale revenue the Tracker can use the Tracking Cookie value to send a Remote Tracking Request associating a transaction with the original visitor data that triggered the text message or chat request. The Remote Tracking Request can incorporate the sale revenue entered by the Operator as well as additional variables such as a cost of sale amount. Such variables can be numeric or subjective attributes of the User sale or any other aspect of the interaction and resulting transaction. This data can be manually entered by the Operator such as the number and level of agents involved in the interaction. Numeric figures can also be automatically calculated by the Tracker based on predefined constants. For instance the Tracker can use the original chat duration or number of messages multiplied by a preset cost per time or cost per message configured by the Operator to calculate the cost of sale. Furthermore the Tracker can subtract the cost from revenues to arrive at a profit figure and send such figure as the transaction value if desired.

Another embodiment shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to except that the Operator is given the option to update the record with financial transactions by communicating with the Tracker using SMS. Steps are similar to steps in . At step following a disconnection of the chat or end of text message session the Tracker can instruct Communications Provider to initiate a SMS to the Operator s telephone number with instructions on replying to the Tracker e.g. Reply with PHONE 202 555 0169 in beginning of SMS in such a way that the Tracker can interpret the Operator s reply and trigger a Remote Tracking Request. Specifically the Operator s SMS can be sent to a telephone number at the Communications Provider which can forward to a page of code at the Tracker. In the original text message body the Tracker can include an identifying variable such as the record ID or the User s telephone number. When replying to the Tracker s SMS the Operator can include the identifying variable sale revenue and similar pertinent information formatted according to a predetermined standard which can allow the Tracker to utilize such data to search for the correct record retrieve the Tracking Cookie and initiate the Remote Tracking Request.

For instance the Tracker can assign reserved keywords such as PHONE SALE PROFIT ID or similar. These keywords can be formatted in a distinguishing manner for example enclosed in brackets e.g. PHONE SALE PROFIT ID . the Tracker can search the SMS for the reserved keywords separate the text between such keywords and use the data to populate the relevant information for the Remote Tracking Request. For example at step the Operator can reply PHONE 202 555 0169 REVENUE 1 000 PROFIT 500 . At step the code at the Tracker can receive the SMS can discern that the text between PHONE and REVENUE or 202 555 0169 is the User s telephone number and can use this value to search for the record and obtain the associated Tracking Cookie. Using a similar method for the remaining text message body the Tracker can interpret the SMS as a need by the Operator to record a 1 000 revenue transaction with 500 profit for the Tracking Cookie associated with 202 555 0169. the Tracker then can proceed to send to the Analytics Account a Remote Tracking Request with the financial transaction in step . The Tracker can also combine information from the Operator s SMS with figures automatically calculated by the Tracker based on predefined constants. For instance the Operator can enter the revenue while the Tracker can use the original chat duration or number of text messages to calculate the cost as described earlier.

Note that this method can also be adapted for tracking off site marketing properties as described in . To accomplish this when creating a lead record the Tracker can generate a lead ID an additional variable that can later substitute for the Tracking Cookie. For the Remote Tracking Request the Tracker can retrieve the lead ID associated with the record as well as the ad ID and related information and can use this information in lieu of the Tracking Cookie and source respectively to initiate a Remote Tracking Request which can be recorded as a financial transaction. Although a name field corresponding to each source at the Tracker is described additional fields can be added to fully describe the source. For instance Analytics Account could record the Document Referrer Campaign Name Campaign Source Campaign Medium Campaign Keyword Campaign Content and Campaign ID among other variables. When the Analytics Account records such data the Tracker can allow the Operator to describe each off site marketing activity in detail and can populate this information when sending Remote Tracking Requests related to the conversation that was triggered by each marketing activity.

In another embodiment shown in the Tracker communicates remotely with a Capable Entity. This allows for text messages to route directly to Business eliminating network costs incurred by the Tracker for passing text messages through its network. Steps are similar to steps in with the text message in step forwarding to the Capable Entity rather than the Communications Provider. In step the Capable Entity can forward details of the text to the Tracker which can parse the body of the text message and extract the temporary code. Alternatively the Capable Entity can extract the temporary code on its own and forward only the code to the Tracker. Step is similar to step in with the Tracker forwarding to the Capable Entity the record identification code. Alternatively the Capable Entity can generate its own ID and can communicate the ID to the Tracker together with the text message or temporary code. The Tracker would store this ID as associated with its own record ID. Thus the systems may communicate using an ID generated by either party.

At step the Capable Entity handles the conversation as usual. Optionally the Capable Entity can use the record ID to source a section or module of the Capable Entity s dashboard from the Tracker which can use the record ID to customize the code of such a module to the specific record. For instance such a module can provide the option of applying tags or nicknames to a record. When submitted the tags can be sent to the Tracker together with the record ID which can be used to apply the tags to the record and can be included in communications with the Analytics Account as detailed below. In step the Tracker can connect to the Analytics Account and query for all visitor details associated with the label corresponding to the record ID. At step the Tracker can optionally forward such details together with the record ID to Capable Entity which can choose to store them in its database.

Alternatively the value of a Tracking Cookie can be included in the request to the Tracker at step . The Tracker can store the Tracking Cookie as associated with the new record ID in step and can use it together with the ID associated with the Analytics Account to send a Remote Tracking Request to the Target Website s Analytics Account such as a remote trackEvent request in GOOGLE ANALYTICS when Capable Entity communicates the related temporary code. This Remote Tracking Request optionally replaces the browser based request in step . The Analytics Account ID a fixed variable can be stored in the Tracker s database.

Yet another embodiment shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to except that it enables tracking text messages that originate on properties other than the Target Website. For instance the method can be used to track text messages that originate in e mail campaigns social media and other similar off site entities managed by Business. Steps are similar to steps in . The remaining steps are similar to steps in with no intermediate Remote Tracking Request step . Alternatively when creating a record the Tracker can generate a lead ID. The Tracker can later use this lead ID in lieu of the Tracking Cookie to send a Remote Tracking Request with the ad name entered by the Operator as the visit source allowing data associated with text messages from off site sources to be recorded within the Analytics Account.

A final embodiment shown in utilizes a similar method to the one described above with respect to except that it allows Business to track custom information about each lead. Such information can be related to and or inferred from the User s actions on the Target Website including a selected language view customization product selection etc. This information can then be shown to the Operator handling the text message and displayed in reports. Optionally this information can also be used to verify at least one of a the User s identity and b infer User s intentions. Thus a Capable Entity can use the information to automatically route the text message to the appropriate Operator.

Steps are similar to steps in . At step on page load at the Target Website and following any subsequent touch gestures the User performs or at preset intervals the Target Website can send custom information to the Tracker through a JAVASCRIPT function. For instance the User can see a Language drop down. When the User selects Spanish the Target Website can pass to the Tracker a variable value pair such as language Spanish . Multiple variable value pairs can be passed in an associative array. Values can be obtained from the array cookies established by the Target Website or a URL among other sources. When passing the variables the Target Website can instruct the Tracker to replace all previously stored custom information add to existing information or overwrite the old variables while keeping the other variables intact. In step the Tracker can receive the information and can store or can update its value in a cookie. Variable value pairs can be separated by a predetermined delimiter such as a or character. For instance a cookie value for language Spanish and product cellphone can be stored as language Spanish product cellphone . When the User clicks Text at step a JAVASCRIPT can execute which can collect the latest custom cookie value and send it to the Tracker. The Tracker can create a new blank record in its database associated with the Target Website can populate it with the custom information and can generate a record ID at step . The remaining steps are similar to steps in .

An exemplary schematic diagram detailing interactions between users and providers is illustrated in . The user is representative of a user and a browser enabled computing device such as a computer a portable computing tablet a Smartphone and the like wherein the browser enabled computing device additionally includes a capability for transmitting text messages including Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Services MMS messages and the like . The general concept of the present invention is to provide a mechanism for identifying a user or visitor to a website presented through a web server and retaining the association between a plurality of entities. The system and method additionally enables tracking of the user s activities and correspondences through text messaging using the same identifier or a similar identifier. The web server includes a network connected server in communication with an associated web server digital data storage device . The web server digital data storage device stores and manages one or more websites and any associated data.

The user requests to view a webpage in accordance with a request from a web server . The web server returns source information to the user by way of a source transfer communication . A data management company server operated by a data management company establishes a user level identifier and forwards the user level identifier to the user by way of a communication link . Information would be stored on a data management company digital storage device wherein the data management company digital storage device is in signal communication with the data management company server .

The requested webpage includes at least one link for establishing a text messaging link . The text messaging recipient link includes at least one of the tracking identifier and the user level identifier which is introduced by a tracking company and or a data management company . This is accomplished by placing a code snippet on at least one website on the web server at any reasonable point in time. The transfer is accomplished using a source transfer communication . The code snippet can be introduced prior to during or after the transfer of the source code of the website . The code snippet can be transferred to the web server the user or any other suitable location to provide the desired solution. In the exemplary embodiment the code snippet is transferred to the user via a snippet communication link .

In one exemplary solution at least one of the tracking identifier and the user level identifier is appended to the text messaging link by the code snippet after the web page is forwarded to the user . In one variant of the process the process can append a permanent or temporary tracking identifier to the text messaging link . If a temporary identifier is used the temporary identifier is exchanged with a permanent identifier when text message is sent to the recipient such as an inquiry management server by way of a text message communication link the tracking company by way of a text message communication link or any other suitable recipient. The combination including the appended permanent identifier would be stored as the record.

The user selects the text messaging link such as a click link in the illustration which activates a click to text request. Once the text messaging link is selected the system initiates transmission of a text message including the associated user level identifier . The combination of the text message and the user level identifier are submitted to the inquiry management server operated by an inquiry management provider . The transmitted text message can optionally include additional information provided by the at least one of the user and the system. The collective received information is stored on an inquiry management digital storage device wherein the inquiry management digital storage device is in signal communication with the inquiry management server .

In one practice the user is subsequently connected to an agent by any suitable communication link not shown . Examples of communication links can include a text message an e mail in person a telephone call transfer to a different website or any other communication link. In one variant the communication between parties is accomplished using an offline communication process. The records would be generated by the agent an automated record generation process or any other suitable process. The agent forwards the collected data activity records of follow up activities to the inquiry management provider referenced as a user agent activities records transfer .

A tracking company server operated by a tracking company would transmit an application programming interface API request to the inquiry management provider in accordance with a request communication . The tracking company subsequently responds by forwarding the data collected from the agent to the tracking company server in accordance with a data request response or data transfer communication . The tracking company collects and stores the received records on a tracking company digital data storage device . The stored records including the associated user level identifier are forwarded to the data management company for future use wherein the conveyance of the stored records is accomplished via a data transfer communication link . When a tracking identifier is used the user level identifier associated with the tracking identifier is first located and then used to forward the stored records to the data management company .

In summary the method overcomes deficiencies in the art by enabling chat and text messages to be tracked. The method can also be applied to other applications where off line activities are manipulated to be presented as on line activities. This allows the system to capture valuable data from the analytics system such as visitor source information. Incorporating an ID throughout the method allows Business to drill down into visitor data attributing each interaction to a specific marketing channel geographic location device etc. The described features are not mutually exclusive each Business can select as few or as many of the options to fit its needs and or preferences.

The above described methods can be implemented in a system that can include one or more non transitory computer readable storage mediums with instructions stored thereon that when executed by a computing system cause the computing system to perform the above described operations.

Each of the methods described herein with reference to the accompanying figures can be implemented as a system including one or more servers providing data related to the website and the database wherein each server comprises at least one computing system having at least one data processor. The above described methods according to the technology introduced here can be implemented as devices and or systems including multiple devices.

For example the methods described herein can be implemented in hardware firmware or as software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM an RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered in such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that can store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein.

Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and applications of the technology introduced here. For example the term business is not limited to a business but can include any entity having an online or Internet presence in the form of a website. It is to be understood that unless otherwise indicated herein the order in which the steps of the figures are described is not intended to require that such steps be performed in the order in which they are described. It is therefore to be understood that numerous modifications can be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other arrangements can be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications that are within the spirit and scope of the invention. Furthermore material appearing in the background section of the specification is not an admission that such material is prior art to the invention.

