---

title: Management system for using speech analytics to enhance contact center agent conformance
abstract: A call center compliance system is used to ensure that agents adhere to call center policies and applicable regulations when handling calls. A call handler processing a call between an agent and a remote party bridges on a speech analytics component. A keyword set is used by the speech analytics component to analyze the remote party's or the agent's speech. If a keyword is detected, an event notification is provided from the speech analytics component to the call handler. A logic script executing in the call handler defines what actions are to occur in response to receiving the event notification. The call handler can provide information to the agent, record a violation, or await further event notifications. In one embodiment, detection of a first keyword in a first keyword set spoken by a remote party causes the agent's speech to be monitored using a second keyword set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473634&OS=09473634&RS=09473634
owner: NOBLE SYSTEMS CORPORATION
number: 09473634
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151012
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 949 467 filed on Jul. 24 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 225 833 the contents of which are incorporated by reference for all that it teaches.

The concepts and technologies disclosed herein generally pertain to using a speech analytics component for enhancing contact center agent compliance with contact center policies and or regulations such as those governing debt collection calls. A framework is provided allowing customization of a call handler component for responding to various detected contexts based on analyzing speech between an agent and a remote party in order to facilitate agent compliance with contact center policies and or regulations.

Various government regulations may govern how calls are handled in a contact center. Some of these regulations may regulate what can be said or what must said during a call. For example in some instances regulations may require informing the called party of certain aspects as to the purpose of the call. In other instances certain agent behaviors may be prohibited or discouraged. For example with respect to debt collection calls involving collection of debts owed by an individual aspects of the call may be regulated by the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act FDCP . This regulation prohibits agents from certain practices such as using profane or intimidating language. Such statutes may also prohibit debt collectors from attempting to collect a debt from individuals who have declared bankruptcy. If a debt collector calls a debtor who just filed for bankruptcy or is about to file for bankruptcy then the agent should cease attempts to collect the debt upon being informed of this. Further many contact center operators will instruct their agents to then limit their responses to certain inquiries.

In addition contact centers may have internal policies governing what agents may or may not do under certain conditions. Agents may not be fully trained or experienced to handle all contexts arising in a call and it is possible that adherence to internal policies are not always followed by agents. Agent training is one approach for minimizing such non compliant actions but identifying agents requiring training can be laborious. Recoding the agent s call and reviewing these may serve as one way for identifying agents requiring further training. This allows the agent and their supervisor to review how the agent conducted the call and improve any identified deficiencies. However this approach does not ensure that agents comply with policies and regulations in real time and is merely proscriptive. Further recording and reviewing only occurs for a fraction of the agent s calls and a non complying agent may not always be immediately detected. In some instances an agent s non compliance with a regulation can result in a fine to the contact center. Consequently technologies are required to provide real time compliance solutions.

Further speech analytics has matured to the point where such systems can accurately and practically detect specific contexts in a conversation. While some limited applications have been devised for using speech analytics in a contact center to assist agents with information required to handle a current call no general framework has been defined allowing contact centers to configure systems in a flexible manner to detect and act upon non compliant agents in real time. It is with these aspects in mind that the concepts and technologies herein are disclosed.

Various embodiments are disclosed for providing compliance enforcement in a contact center. In various embodiments a speech analytics component monitors a remote party s speech. Based on analyzing certain words or phrases the speech analytics component informs a call handler which determines whether certain regulations or policies are applicable. The system may provide to the agent visual text information or icons for commanding pre recorded audio announcement to be played to facilitate the agent s compliance. The agent may respond by indicating a particular pre recorded announcement should be played which provides an appropriate response under the conditions encountered. Failure of the agent to play the prompt or respond in a prescribed manner may result in reporting a violation such as to an administrator.

As is discussed in greater detail below the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a tangible non transitory computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to exemplify concepts at a high level form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that address any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

Compliance enforcement may broadly refer to how calls are established or handled by a contact center in certain contexts. In some instances compliance enforcement involves ensuring calls are establishing within certain calling windows avoiding calling wireless numbers using certain equipment or calling numbers associated with a do not call list. Many contact centers use computerized equipment such as dialers to originate calls so as to avoid such compliance violations. Rather the compliance issues addressed herein do not deal so much with how when or why the call is established but what is said between the agent and the remote party after the call is established i.e. the context . Reference to context means a situation as defined by the content spoken between an agent and a remote party. Thus the compliance issues addressed herein largely involve what is said between the parties and pertain to after a connection is established and not how the call was established . These context related compliance issues may equally apply to either outgoing or incoming calls relative to the contact center.

Ensuring contact center agents comply with applicable regulations and policies can be difficult. Detection of an agent s failure to conform to applicable regulations has largely been after the fact and because this involves what is said between the agent and the remote party detection has been conventionally accomplished by reviewing recordings of the agent s calls. Analyzing an agent s past call recordings can also serve as a training aid to impact how to handle future calls. Agent training can be used to inform and educate the agent about proper call handling procedures in a variety of contexts. However agent training is largely targeted to facilitate compliance for future calls and still leaves the possibility that an agent will not conform to policies and regulations on a particular call. Obviously analyzing agent recordings does not provide a real time detection of agent non compliance. However it is desirable to detect agent compliance for every call in real time and this remains difficult using conventional means. In some situations agent non compliance with certain call handling procedures can result in large fines and legal action. Thus detecting and addressing non compliance in real time is very desirable from the perspective of the call center operator.

Some tools can facilitate agent compliance to regulations in real time when handling a call. These aids include on line procedural manuals and other automated tools to provide information that may be useful to the agent. A relatively new tool involves speech analytics that may be incorporated for real time agent assistance. This tool can monitor the agent s speech in real time and determine the existence of certain words or phrases and present the appropriate on line manuals to the agent. While such tools may have some value without a general framework allowing contact center operators to configure such systems uniquely for their operations the utility of such technology is largely limited and do not serve well for ensuring agent compliance with regulations.

Since the call center may process calls originating from a calling party or initiated to a called party the term party or individual without any further qualification refers to a person associated with a call processed by the call center where the call is either received from or placed to the party. Because the term party can also refer to either the agent or the calling called party the term remote party used herein refers to either the calling or the called party but not the agent. Although the architecture may illustrate the call center originating outbound calls the concepts disclosed here are not limited to only outbound calls or voice calls of a certain technology unless the context dictates such.

Depending on the embodiment voice calls may originate or terminate to remote parties using a variety of different phone types. For instance a remote party may originate a call from a conventional analog telephone connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN using an analog plain old telephone service POTS line . The calls may be routed by the PSTN and may comprise various types of facilities including but not limited to T1 trunks SONET based fiber optic networks ATM networks etc. Various types of routers switches bridges gateways and other types of equipment may be involved in the processing of the calls.

Voice calls may also originate from or terminate to a smart phone device such as a smart phone tablet or other smart device which wirelessly communicates with a mobile service provider MSP . The voice calls may be routed to the PSTN using an integrated services digital network ISDN interface or other types of interfaces that are well known to those skilled in the art. In particular embodiments the MSP may also route calls as packetized voice referred to herein as voice over IP VoIP to an Internet provider using Internet based protocols. For convenience unless indicated otherwise the term trunk refers to any type of facility or providing voice calls to or from the call center regardless of the type of protocol or technology used. Specifically a trunk is not limited to time division multiplexing TDM technology.

Voice calls may also involve a remote party employing a so called IP phone VoIP phone or soft phone . In one embodiment this device may comprise a computing device such as a laptop computing tablet or other electronic device which interfaces with a headphone microphone combination also referred to as a headset . An IP phone may use a digital voice control protocol and may process packetized voice data according to various Internet based voice protocols such as session initiated protocol SIP . The call may be conveyed by other types of Internet providers such as a cable company providing Internet access services over a coaxial cable facility . Those skilled in the art will recognize that a variety of protocols and facilities may be used to convey voice calls.

The term telephone call as used herein is generally synonymous with a voice call unless indicated otherwise. Further the term telephone call may encompass a voice call originating from any type of device such as a soft phone a conventional telephone a smart phone or other device known in the art. The term call as used herein may mean an active instance of two way communication an attempt to establish two way communication or a portion of the two way communication. For example a user at a conventional telephone can dial a telephone call in an attempt to establish two way communication and a call can be said to exist even prior to establishment of a two way connection. In another example a call may be put on hold and a portion of the call may be referred to as a call leg existing between two points. A call may comprise a number of concatenated call legs as known to those skilled in the art or the call legs may be joined to form a conference call.

In various embodiments calls in the contact center are handled by a call handler. This refers to equipment that may process either incoming or outgoing calls. One form of a call handler is an automatic call distributor ACD not shown in but would replace the dialer as shown for receiving incoming calls. In particular embodiments the ACD may be a specialized switch for receiving and routing inbound calls under various conditions. Further the ACD may be embodied as a dedicated form of equipment readily available from various manufacturers or the ACD may be a so called soft switch comprising a suitable programming module executed by a processing device to perform the necessary functions. The ACD may route an incoming call over call center facilities to an available agent.

Another form of a call handler is a dialer that originates calls. In various embodiments outbound calls may originate by a dialer over facilities or to the remote parties. The dialer may further establish a call leg to an available agent using facilities or in some instances depending on the technologies and embodiments. Depending on the embodiment the facilities may be any suitable technology for conveying the call including but not limited to a local area network LAN wide area network WAN ISDN or conventional TDM circuits. In addition the facilities may be the same or different from the facilities used to transport the call to the ACD.

The physical area at which the agent works is often referred to as an agent position and these positions are often grouped into clusters that are managed by a supervisor who may monitor calls and the agents productivity. An agent typically uses a computing device such as a computer and a voice device . The combination of computing device and or voice device may be referred to as a workstation. Thus for these particular embodiments the workstation collectively has a data capability and a voice capability although separate devices may be used. In some instances workstation may be used in reference to either the data or voice capability at the agent s position. For example routing the call to the agent s workstation means routing a call to one of the voice devices at the agent s position. Similarly routing the call to the agent means routing a call to the appropriate equipment at an agent s position. Displaying data at the agent s workstation means displaying data at the computer at the agent s workstation.

In particular embodiments the voice device used by an agent may be a soft phone device exemplified by a headset connected to the computer . The soft phone device may be a virtual telephone implemented in part by an application program executing on the computer . Further the phone may also comprise an Internet Protocol IP based headset or a conventional phone . Use of the term phone is intended to encompass all these types of voice devices used by an agent unless indicated otherwise.

Agents typically log onto their workstations prior to handling calls. This allows the call handler to know which agents are available for handling calls. In particular embodiments the call handler may also maintain data of an agent s skill level that may be used to route a specific call to the agent or group of agents having the same skill level. In particular instances if a suitable agent is not available to handle a call the call handler may queue the call for the next available agent. As can be expected various algorithms may be employed to process calls in an efficient manner.

In various embodiments a CTI server may be incorporated in the call center architecture to control monitor and or coordinate other components of the architecture . Specifically the CTI server may interact with other components to coordinate call processing. Thus in particular embodiments the CTI server may control routing of calls from the call handler to the various agent workstations and or may provide data to other components processing the calls. In addition in particular embodiments the CTI server may also monitor various components of the architecture . For example the CTI server may monitor the number of calls received and or made by the call center and or monitor performance parameters of agents such as the average handling time of calls for individual agents. Further the CTI server may also provide call reporting functionality based on data collected during calls.

In various embodiments an interactive voice response system IVR may be used to play voice prompts. In particular embodiments these prompts may be in a menu type structure and the IVR may collect and analyze responses from the party in the form of dual tone multiple frequency DMTF tones and or speech. In addition the IVR may be used to further identify the purpose of the call such as for example prompting the remote party to enter account information or otherwise obtain information used to service the call. Further in particular embodiments the IVR may interact with other components such as the CTI server or a data store to retrieve or provide information for processing the call. In other configurations the IVR may be used to only provide announcements.

Depending on the embodiment the interaction between the call handler e.g. dialer IVR CTI server agent computers as well as other components may involve using a local area network LAN . However other configurations are possible such as but not limited to using a wide area network wireless network router bridge direct point to point links etc.

In particular embodiments when an agent is interacting with a remote party the agent may use her workstation computer to further interact with other enterprise computing systems such as for example a customer relationship management CRM server . A CRM server may be used to integrate information from various enterprise business systems to facilitate the agent servicing the call. In addition the CRM server may provide a variety of applications used by the agent to service the call.

In various embodiments the dialer or other form of call handler may also interact with a speech analytics component . The interaction may involve establishing a call leg of a call between the remote party and an agent so that the speech analytics component is able to analyze the speech in real time. This may involve a set of dedicated trunks between the dialer and the speech analytics component or a data connection suitable for conveying voice over IP which can be conveyed using LAN . Further signaling information may be exchange between the dialer and the speech analytics component as necessary. The speech analytics component may provide indications to the dialer or call handler if other types of call handling equipment are involved that indicate certain words were spoken by one of the parties on the call e.g. either the agent or the remote party. These indications may be also referred to as events or event notifications herein. Technically the detection of a keyword is an event and the notification of the event is an event notification. However as it will be seen both of these may be broadly referred to as an event. 

An administrator s computer may interface to the speech analytics component that allows a call center administrator to define which keywords are to be used the logic as to how the keyword sets are to be used and what should be done when event notifications are received by the call handler. More about these capabilities will follow.

Although a number of the above components may be referred to as a server each may be also referred to in the art as a computing device unit or system. For example the speech analytics component may be a stand alone system a.k.a. speech analytics system . A component may incorporate a local data store and or interface with an external data store. Use of the word server does not require that the component interact in a client server arrangement with other components although that may be the case. Further the above components may be located remotely from or co located with other components. Furthermore one or more of the components may be implemented on a single processing device to perform the functions described herein. For example in various embodiments one or more functionalities of the dialer IVR CRM server CTI server and speech analytics component or other component may be combined into a single hardware platform executing one or more software modules. In addition the call center architecture may be provided as a hosted solution where the call processing functionality is provided as a communication service a so called communication as a service or CaaS to a call center operator. Thus there is no requirement that the components identified above actually be located or controlled by a call center operator.

In addition depending on the embodiment the agent positions may be co located in a single physical call center or multiple physical call centers. The agents may be remotely located from the other components of the call center and may also be remotely located from each other an arrangement sometimes referred to as a virtual call center. In particular instances the virtual call center may describe a scenario in which agents work at home using their own computers and telephones as workstations. In some configurations a single physical location of the call center may not be readily identifiable. For instance this may occur when the call processing functions are provided as a service in a hosted cloud computing environment and the agents positions are in their individual residences.

Those skilled in art will recognize represents one possible configuration of a call center architecture and that variations are possible with respect to the protocols facilities components technologies and equipment used. For example various algorithms and queuing arrangements may be defined to efficiently process and or place calls.

Speech analytic tools can be used to enforce real time agent compliance with call center policies by monitoring the speech of both the agent and the remote party during the conversation. In many instances it is not sufficient to merely monitor the combined speech without knowledge of which speech corresponds to the remote party and which speech corresponds to the agent. Compliance usually requires knowing sufficient details of the context to identify which party spoke what information and how the other party responded. In a very simple example monitoring a call to ensure that the agent does not utter profanities requires knowing which speech is associated with the agent. It is not unusual for angry remote parties to utter a profanity and the agent should not be tagged as being responsible.

As evident from the above example compliance may also involve in some instances monitoring only the agent s speech. There may be certain words or phrases that the agent should never state but in practice these may be relatively rare since absolute bars to stating certain words or phrases may be easily taken out of context. For example suppose the agent is never to say the phrase give it to you for free because they are not to give away products or services. However the agent may repeat such a phrase when confirming a question from the caller by saying If I understand you correct you want us to give it to you for free which we cannot do. Under a strict interpretation a violation may be detected by that agent when in practice no violation was actually committed by the agent. However there may be times when the agent should never utter certain words during a call such as profanity.

In many instances agent compliance involves the agent responding in a certain manner to information provided by the party. The agent may be required to respond in a certain manner after being informed by the individual of certain facts or allegations. Thus many compliance situations involve how the agent reacts to information provided by the party.

The detection of a word or phrase is reported by the speech analytics component to the call handler via a message referred to herein as an event or event notification. The event may signify detection of a particular word or phrase as defined by criteria specified by an administrator. In many other instances a flexible format may allow defining criteria so that an event may report a variety of conditions associated with one or more words. For instance returning to the example where the agent is never to say the phrase give it to you for free specifying criteria may not cover instances such as when the agent says give the item to you for free or give that to you for free. Rather than define all the possible phrases the criteria may be defined as whenever the word give is used within six words of the word free by the agent. Alternatively criterion could be to report an event whenever give or have is used by the agent within five words of free or no charge. Those skilled in the art will recognize that various formats can be defined to specify the phrase to be detected. Such flexibility makes it easier to define the criteria used by the speech analytics component to detect a particular situation in a conversation.

For example an agent inquiring about the type of vehicle a caller needs to be serviced may expect to hear one of several individual words such as car automobile sedan convertible truck etc. However in certain contexts phrases may be used such as sport utility vehicle. The word sport by itself is not very useful but when used in the proximity of utility and vehicle the phrase becomes indicative of the type of vehicle. Thus combinations of words used as a phrase can also be a define phrase.

Once the call handler receives the event notification various actions may occur. This may involve presenting information to the agent as well as presenting an option to play pre recorded scripts. In many instances a script may be pre recorded in the agent s voice so that when the agent approves the script to be played the called party will not be able to readily discern that a recording is being played as opposed to the agent is speaking live. The pre recorded script can be written to confirm with applicable policies. Thus integration of speech analytics and pre recorded scripts can ensure that an agent is conforming to applicable policies and regulations. Many other possible actions can be taken as will be seen.

An example is presented herein for illustrating aspects of the invention including how a call handler can react upon receiving an event from a speech analytics component reporting detection of certain words. This example is based on a debt collection context. More specifically the example involves an agent contacting an individual in relation to collecting a debt owed by the individual. Hence the call handler is a dialer and the call is an outbound call. Upon being called and discussing the debt with the agent the individual may inform the agent that they are about to file for bankruptcy or have just filed for bankruptcy. In such situations the agent acting to collect the debt should proceed in a certain manner. Preferably the agent should obtain information of the individual s attorney and contact information if possible. Further if the bankruptcy case has been already filed the agent should ask for the court s case number. At this point regulations or policies may require that the agent cease any attempts to collect the debt and cease making any related inquiries regarding the status or repayment of the debt or specifics pertaining to the individual s bankruptcy.

This example is used to illustrate how detecting keywords by the individual and the agent can be used to determine if the agent is in compliance with applicable policies. The invention is not limited to only compliance enforcement in a debt collection context but can be applied to other contexts such as when soliciting donations telemarketing sales etc. Additional examples are provided later on to illustrate other applications and to illustrate the breadth and scope of the invention.

The speech analytics component can monitor and analyze the called party s speech for the presence of words or phrases. It can also determine whether certain words occur frequently or within the vicinity of other words. For simplicity reference to keyword will be used herein as opposed to word and or phrase s and it should be understood that reference to keyword also encompasses a single word phrase or certain words used within the vicinity of each other as well unless the context dictates otherwise. A relatively short list of phrases will suffice for accurately detecting this situation. For example for this embodiment a set of keywords associated with the remote party may include bankrupt bankruptcy attorney lawyer filing for bankruptcy chapter 7 or bankruptcy court. The set of keywords is referred to as the keyword set. There is a high probability that a called party informing the agent of a change in their financial status would use one of the words in the keyword set. If additional phrases or words are discovered these can be added to the keyword set. The keyword set can also define when certain words are used in close relationship. For example a remote party who has filed for bankruptcy may use the word file in close relationship with the word bankruptcy. Detecting words in close association with each other increases the likelihood of correctly assessing the context of the conversation.

It further becomes evident from this example that the keyword set must be associated with the remote party. That is the keyword set is used when analyzing the speech of the remote party not the agent. In other cases another keyword set is defined that is associated with the agent. This may be a different keyword set or the same. Typically the keywords in the set overlap to an extent but are not the same. To facilitate identification the keyword sets may be named. For example the keyword set containing the various words related to bankruptcy as reported by the remote party may be labeled the bankruptcy keyword set. Other naming conventions may include a reference to which party the keyword set is associated with. Thus the above keyword set could also be referred to as the remote party bankruptcy keyword set. 

An event notification reporting detection of a keyword in a keyword set may simply indicate a match has occurred or may indicate a probability of a match. In many embodiments disclosed herein the event notification reports that a match has occurred and there is a presumption that there is a high level of confidence by the speech recognition component that the match occurred. Based on various embodiments a probability or weighting indication may be provided that indicates the strength of the match.

Once the speech analytics component determines that the called party in a debt collection call context has used one of the keywords in the bankruptcy keyword set appropriate alerts can be provided to the agent on their computer. The alerts may provide text indicating to the agent that they should e.g. ask for the name of the individual s lawyer and confirm whether bankruptcy has already been filed. If so then the court s case number should be obtained. The text may further indicate to the agent that no further attempts to collect should occur during the call.

The actions that occur upon detection of a keyword in the bankruptcy keyword set may trigger other actions by the call handler. For example in addition to presenting text informing the agent of the preferred course of conduct an option may be presented for the agent to select and play a pre recorded announcement to the called party. In one embodiment the announcement is recorded in the agent s voice and the content has been pre cleared to ensure that the announcement conforms to the appropriate call center policies.

In certain situations the detection of a keyword by the called party may be in error. For example the called party may have stated they were not considering bankruptcy and instead the speech analytics system properly detected the word bankruptcy. In such situations the agent may disregard the suggestions provided on their workstation and elect to ignore any pre recorded announcements offered. Instead options may be presented allowing the agent to indicate to the call handler that these suggestions are not applicable e.g. the detection of bankruptcy was in error . This allows the agent to override the system s operation in cases where an incorrect determination occurred.

In one embodiment the agent may choose whether to respond to the called party s indication of bankruptcy by using a pre recorded script or by speaking live to the called party. If the speech analytics component was correct in determining that the called party has entered into bankruptcy then the speech analytics component may monitor the agent s speech to ensure that compliance with regulations is followed by the agent asking the called party what attorney is handling the case. If the pre recorded script is used then there should not be any question as to whether compliance with the regulations occurs. However if the agent proceeds with a live dialogue the agent may or may not comply with the policy.

For example after the called party has indicated they have filed bankruptcy the speech analytics system may monitor the agent s speech for a corresponding set of keywords or phrases such as e.g. name lawyer law firm counsel attorney case number or court. If the agent follows the procedures by asking for the name of the attorney handling the bankruptcy there is a high probability that one of these words will be used.

Thus a second keyword set may be defined for the agent which can be referred to as the lawyer inquiry keyword set. This keyword set is used or applied to the agent s speech only after the called party is determined to have entered bankruptcy. Thus application of this second keyword set is dependent on keywords being detected in the first keyword set. Thus the agent s use of a keyword in the second keyword set should not result in an event reported by the speech analytics component if the called party did not previously indicate they were filing for bankruptcy.

It would be possible to apply the lawyer inquiry keyword set to the agent s speech at all times and provide the event notification whenever such keywords are detected but the only time that the event notifications would be relevant in this case is if a keyword was previously detected from the bankruptcy keyword set.

Assuming that the agent uses one of these keywords in the lawyer inquiry keyword set it is likely that that the agent has complied with the policy requiring that they ask the name of the law firm or attorney handling the bankruptcy. If the agent does not use one of these words the speech analytics component may issue a second event notification resulting in a warning reminder text presented to the agent and wait for the presence of such words in the agent s next response. If these words are not detected by the agent within a certain time frame then a violation of the policy or regulation may be noted and or transmitted to a supervisor or other actions taken. Because violations may be levied against a call center for each occurrence of a violation having tools that allow real time detection offer the possibility of minimizing such occurrences and any associated liability.

A more detailed description of one embodiment of this process flow is shown in . Turning to the process begins with the agent recording a script in operation . This is the script that the agent may select to have played to the called party under specific situations. Preferably the agent records the script in a voice that is typical of their normal voice. This minimizes the likelihood that the called party will be able to distinguish when the agent is talking live from when a pre recorded script is being played. The agent may record a number of scripts each which represents a different response to a commonly occurring situation. This step may involve using speech recording editing systems that allow the user to record playback and edit the recording.

The system also allows the recorded script to be linked to detection of a keyword set in operation . The keyword set may be defined by a name e.g. bankruptcy and associated with the agent or the called party. This list may be refined over time but represents the set of phrases along with associated requirements which when detected indicates a certain context has been detected in the conversation. Obviously the set of words is dependent on the context to be detected.

Once the script has been recorded stored and linked to a context a set of actions is defined that is appropriate for the context. The actions may include responses that may be taken by the call handler when the select words in the keyword set are detected. As described above one response may comprise an action displaying text on the agent s terminal informing the agent of the relevant policy. Another action may be to display text of a script that the agent should read to the called party. Another action may display an icon for playing a recommended pre recorded script to the called party. Other actions may not necessarily involve informing the agent via text information presented on the display but may involve recording a data reflecting the detection of a keyword in a keyword set sending a notification to a supervisor that certain information has not been provided by the agent or recording a portion of the conversation that reflects the detected context e.g. the situation that is associated with the detection of the select words by the remote party and the absence of a suitable response from the agent. An unsuitable agent response may involve failing to convey certain information to the called party or inquiring whether the remote party has actually filed for bankruptcy.

Thus the steps illustrated in operations and involve defining in advance of any call what the keyword sets are which party the keywords sets are associated with the logic defining what happens when a keyword is detected and by whom and defining the actions that may be triggered such as playing any recordings that may be played etc. Further details will be discussed as to further steps and procedures involved with these aspects.

Once this operating context is defined the system is ready to process calls. The next operation shown in is originating a call to the called party in operation . Although the process flow is illustrated using an outbound call the concepts and technologies herein can be applied to inbound calls as well. Recall that the example used to illustrate the concepts and technologies is a debt collection scenario and typically calls are made by the contact center to called parties that are the individuals with the debt. That is in this example the individuals are being calls and they are not calling into the contact center.

Once the call is originated to the remote party the audio data of the conversation is copied to the speech analytics component so that the speech content can be analyzed in operation . This can occur using a conference bridge or similar technology. Since the speech analytics component only needs to receive audio and does not provide audio a modified bridging capability can be used as well.

Typically on a debt collection call there may be a short exchange between the agent and the called party exchanging introductory comments along with a statement from the agent indicating the purpose of the call. In one embodiment the called party s words are continuously examined for the presence of the selected words or phrases in the bankruptcy keyword set in operation . In other embodiments a timer may be associated with detecting a particular word from a keyword set. For example if the called party is going to indicate that they have filed bankruptcy they likely will state this after learning of the purpose of the call. That is a keyword from the bankruptcy keyword set will likely be mentioned within the first few minutes of the call as opposed to sometime later. In any case in operations and the called party s speech is continuously analyzed until one of the keywords are identified.

Once one of the selected words is identified in operation a timer T1 may be started in operation . This timer is used to determine if the agent complies with applicable regulations by responding properly within a typical time period. The agent should not attempt to collect the debt but should inquire immediately of the individual s attorney handling their bankruptcy case. In addition after detecting a keyword by the called party a screen response may be presented to the agent in operation . A screen response is visual information provided to the agent s computer screen when a keyword is detected. The screen response could comprise text informing the agent of the proper action or policy for handling the situation an appropriate link to a policy manual a script that can be read or presenting an icon for playing a pre defined script recorded in the agent s voice. Other indications could be provided by the screen response and other actions can be taken aside from or in addition to providing a screen response.

The speech from the agent that includes the agent s response after hearing the called party state the select words is then analyzed in operation . The speech analytics component may apply a second keyword set to determine if the agent is responding appropriately. Thus a test is made in operation to determine if the agent s response is appropriate e.g. has the agent used a word from the lawyer inquiry keyword set . For example the agent may have responded by acknowledging the called party has filed for bankruptcy and asks for their lawyer s name and contact information. If the determination in operation is that the agent has properly responded then the process is completed. In effect the process identified a situation that required a specific response by the agent and it was determined that the agent did respond appropriately.

Although shows that the process has completed in other embodiments information may be written to a file indicating the context that was encountered and noting that the agent appropriately handled it. In other embodiments the system may record an indicator every time an agent follows the policy in a specific situation e.g. accumulate a point for the agent or increment a counter of some sort . There may be multiple opportunities for determining whether the agent has properly responded in a situation during a call. The accumulation of points may be used to evaluate the agent s performance award compensation schedule agents in a preferred manner or award prizes. Indications may be presented to the agent regarding the agent s cumulative performance with respect to compliance as well as information on the current call. Further instances of exemplary agent responses can be recorded and identified for use as a training guide for other agents.

If however in operation the agent has not provided a suitable response the process continues to operation where a test is made as to whether timer T1 has expired. It becomes evident that in many contexts determining whether the agent has responded appropriately typically involves using a timer. That is if the agent is informed by the remote party that they have filed for bankruptcy the agent should respond by inquiring about the party s lawyer or case number within a certain time limit. The particular values of these times are dependent on each particular context and are typically set using the experience of the contact center operator.

For instance in this example when the remote party informs the agent that they have filed for bankruptcy the agent should not attempt to collect the debt but should obtain their lawyer s name and or the case file number. In most situations this response should be provided in a timely manner by the agent in response to learning of the individual s bankruptcy. Consequently the timer may be set in a range e.g. 15 30 seconds. It could be less or slightly more but typically it would not be in e.g. the 3 5 minute range. In other embodiments the timer T1 may be started upon the agent s response as opposed to detecting when the keyword spoken by the individual. This accommodates individuals that inform the agent of their bankruptcy and continue to talk for some while possibly running out the value of T1 before the agent has an opportunity to response. In other applications of the concepts and technologies herein for other situations the agent may be expected to respond to information provided by the individual sometime during the call. In these other applications the timer may be in the 3 5 minute range or may be open ended e.g. for the duration of the call .

If the timer T1 has not expired in operation then the process continues to operation which continues to analyze the agent s response. Thus operations check to see if the agent responds appropriately within a certain time period. If not then the process continues at Label A which continues on to .

Turning to a text display may be presented to the agent in operation . The text display may remind the agent that they should ask the individual for their lawyer and or case number. For example the text may be presented in a pop up window on the agent s display stating If the individual has filed bankruptcy you should ask them for their lawyer s name and telephone number and the case number if the bankruptcy filing has already occurred. You should not continue to attempt to collect the debt. 

In addition the agent may be presented with an icon for selecting a pre recorded script that was previously recorded using the agent s voice. Selecting the icon requests that the pre recorded script be played to the called party. This relieves the agent from having to read the script. At the end of a long shift the agent may be less than enthusiastic short on patience or likely to take a shortcut with respect to complying with applicable policies. Thus allowing the agent to have a pre recorded script played to the called party ensures that a compliant and clear response is provided to the called party.

After presenting the text reminder to the agent in operation another timer T2 may be started in operation which is used to determine if the agent has responded properly after being reminded. At this point the agent may opt to play the script to the called party in option or engage in further dialog with the called party and provide the appropriate response in option .

If the agent elects to play the recorded script to the called party the agent indicates this by appropriately interacting with their computer to select the option. There may be for example several possible scripts that can be selected and played. Upon receiving the agent s input in operation to play an indicated script the agent s microphone may be muted in operation the script played in operation and the agent microphone un muted in operation . Thus the called party hears only the pre recorded script and cannot hear any other sounds from the agent which may suggest to the called party that a recorded script is being played .

If however the agent decides to engage in further dialogue with the called party via option then the process flow continues to operation where the agent s responses are analyzed. If the keywords are detected in the agent s response in operation before the expiry of timer T2 in operation then the process is completed. Essentially the agent has provided a proper verbal response to the called party after being initially reminded.

If the selected words are not detected within the time period T2 i.e. the timer T2 expires in operation then this indicates that the speech analytics component has not detected the appropriate select words in the agent s response. At this point another warning text can be displayed on the agent s display and or a warning indication may be sent to the agent s administrator in operation . This provides a record of the agent s failure to adhere to the policy and allows the administrator to investigate in real time. In addition the call may be recorded to allow manual verification that the supposed agent s failure was correctly assessed. It is even possible that upon detecting a failure in the agent to provide the proper inquiry the agent could be prevented from immediate communication with the remote party and the pre recorded announcement played to the remote party in place of the agent. After the pre recorded script is played to the remote party the agent may be able to then communicate with the remote party.

In some cases the speech technology may not correctly assess the agent s response and may have incorrectly noted the agent as failing to follow procedures. Meta data associated with the call recording could indicate the policy failure and the nature of the failure. Tagging of recorded calls in this manner would allow quick identification retrieval and review of such calls so that manual verification of the speech technology s assessment can be undertaken.

One embodiment of the architecture within a call center for using speech analytics in conjunction with a call handler for agent compliance is illustrated at a high level as a compliance enforcement system CES in . The CES architecture comprises two main components a call handler and a speech analytics component . The call handler may be a dialer automatic call distributor computer telephony integration server or some other component associate with handling of calls. The call handler has knowledge of the existing calls and related information involving agents. In some embodiments multiple components may form the call handler. For example the call handler may comprise a switching component and an application server. In other embodiments the call handler may comprise an ACD for handling incoming calls and a dialer for handling outgoing calls. Other functional configurations are possible as are known in the art.

In this embodiment the call handler will have a call leg to the called party which may be an incoming or outgoing call. The call handler will establish a call leg to the agent s phone at their workstation comprising a computer and a telephone . The call handler will also set up a call leg to the speech analytics component . In this manner the speech analytics component is able to monitor and analyze the speech between the agent and the called party and is able to detect the presence of specified keywords. Typically the speech analytics component does not provide audio on the call to the call handler but in some embodiments this may occur e.g. if the speech analytics component is integrated with an interactive voice response unit . In various embodiments an identifier of some form is used to uniquely reference the call leg between the call handler and the speech analytics component.

The speech analytics component may comprises a module for receiving the audio on call leg and may perform various pre processing on the audio. This pre processing may involve identifying audio from the agent versus the remote party and processing the audio into phonemes used in detecting keywords. Further processing of the audio may then involve detecting the keywords and providing appropriate indications to the control logic script .

Once the speech analytics component is able to receive audio of the call it is able to detect the presence of keywords uttered by the agent or called party. That provides some utility by itself but additional functionality is required beyond the mere detection of words to fully utilize the capabilities of the speech analytics component. This additional functionality comprises three capabilities.

The first capability is the control logic script that is a program executed by a processor in the speech analytics component. The control logic script is configured to define which party s speech should be monitored e.g. agent remote party or both and what word s should be detected e.g. what keyword sets should be used . In some embodiments additional functionality may be defined in the control logic script as to whether events are reported indicating that certain words are not detected by a specified party within a certain time period. The control logic script is also able to receive call leg identification information for the call leg and associate the call identification information with the keyword detection. Since there may be a number of simultaneous calls monitored by the speech analytics component that are associated with a plurality of campaigns and potentially involving a number call handlers it is necessary to determine for which call the keywords are detected.

The control logic script may also control when keyword sets are used applied to examine a party s speech. For example it may be only appropriate to monitor the agent s speech based on certain conditions occurring such as detecting a keyword first uttered by the remote party. Alternatively the control logic script may report out whenever any keywords are detected for a particular party without being dependent on other conditions occurring.

The control logic script can be defined so that a single control logic script is executing for all incoming call legs . In other embodiments multiple control logic scripts can be defined that operate on distinct calls. For example a first control logic script could operate for calls associated with a certain incoming call campaign whereas a second control logic script could operate for calls associated with another incoming or outgoing call campaign. Thus the control logic script can be associated to process calls for a particular call campaign call type incoming or outgoing for a particular agent or set of agents for a particular incoming telephone number trunk group or other distinguishing aspect.

The control logic script can be programmed to apply different keyword sets at different times. This provides flexibility as to defining which keyword sets are analyzed and when and may also save processing resources. For example calls which are not debt collection calls would not require applying the keyword sets to the party s speech defined for debt collection calls. Because there may be a number of different calling campaigns and a number of compliance regulations that are being monitored this ability to define which sets are to be used has the potential for significantly saving processing resources as the scale and application of the system increases. Of course other embodiments may simply define a large keyword set able to accommodate all needs and simply report event notifications whenever a party speaks one of the keywords.

The second capability involves a communication capability where events of the detected keywords are communicated in real time to the call handler specifically the call processing logic script . This involves using an application programming interface API that is incorporated into the call processing logic script . These messages may be conveyed using a LAN WAN bus or other communication facility between the speech analytics component and the call handler.

The event notifications include contextual information which provides information about what was detected by the speech analytics component at what point in a call by which party and for which call. A mere indication that a word was detected is of little use to the call processing logic script unless it is known for which call keyword set and which party the event applies to. The call handler may be handling dozens of calls. Further in some embodiments the event notification may reflect the absence of the detection of a word by a party at a certain point during a call. Additional contextual information may be required to properly interpret detection or lack thereof of certain words by the call handler.

The need for additional context information in certain situations can be illustrated with two examples. In one example the agent is required by call center policy to thank the caller for their call and ask if there is anything else that they can assist the remote party with. Thus at some point during the call such appropriate words should be detected in the agent s speech. As long as this is detected before the end of the call the call center policy can be deemed to be complied with. Thus if the speech analytics component informs the call handler that such speech was detected during a specific call then the contextual information may be sufficient.

Now in the second example the agent is required to confirm the telephone number to the called party after the called party requests to be placed on a do not call list. If the speech analytics component merely informs the call handler that the agent did not confirm a number then this information is insufficient since it is not known whether the called party first made a request to be placed on the do not call list. It is necessary for the event notification to provide additional contextual information namely that the called party requested to be placed on the do not call list along with a report of whether the agent confirmed the number or not. Thus determining whether an agent complied with a policy may require more than just knowing what the agent did or did not say.

How this additional context information is communicated by the speech analytics component can vary. Using the above example a first event notification could be sent reflecting that the called party requested to be placed on the do not call list followed by a second event notification reflecting that the agent did or did not confirm the number. Alternatively a single event notification could be sent indicating that a request was detected for being placed on the do not call list and the agent did or did not confirm the number. Still yet a code could be assigned to this situation and only a single code could be transmitted which reflects a specific context.

The third capability that is required is a corresponding call processing logic script executing in a processor in the call handler . This call processing logic script defines what actions should occur upon receiving the event from the speech analytics component. While there is value in the speech analytics component by itself being able to detect certain keywords in a conversation between an agent and a called party there is significant additional value in the call handler receiving events from the speech analytics component and being able to respond in different ways for different calls. These responses may be based on other information that may be unavailable to the speech analytics component.

The responses performed by call processing logic script are referred to as actions. These actions may involve messages to other call center components or applications or messages to the agent s computer . The actions may include by way of example and not limitation 

The list of potential actions that the call handler can take upon receiving an event notification is broad and no doubt those skilled in the art will be able to expand this list in light of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

For example the call processing logic script can invoke an action of searching based on keyword terms. This could be used to provide information from various sources such as knowledge management systems as information presented on the agent s desktop display. In other words the call processing logic script could receive a event notification indicating a keyword and then search a database for all files having that keyword. However the function of searching information repositories for matching content and presenting this to the agent is not the same as displaying a pre defined set of text information such as informing the agent how to handle the call. In other words searching for information among information sets e.g. files is not the same as retrieving a specific set of information that is present whenever the agent one of several keywords are stated by a party. In most cases detection of one of several keywords in a keyword set results in a single pre defined information to be present to the agent regarding the policy of how to handle the compliance situation. This is not the same as using information of the keyword that is detected and searching among a plurality of information sources as to the most relevant content.

The ability to react to reported events from the speech analytics component allows the speech analytics component to focus on detecting keywords without having to become involved with call center specific policies data. Nor does the speech analytics component have to implement capabilities that are not core to operation of the speech analytics component. In other words the control logic script in the speech analytics component is focused on reporting speech detection not on how to interpret what the presence or absence of these keywords means for the context of a particular call. Whether certain keywords are detected or not between the agent and the called party fundamentally relate to the call center s policies and regulations that govern the call and not generally to speech analytics. Further the applicable policies and regulations are highly specific to the call center the call handler equipment the nature of the call and the call campaign. It is preferable that these aspects are segregated from the speech analytics component since the policies and regulations are subject to change and it is desirable to insulate the speech analytics component from aspects unique to call center operation as much as possible. Further because a variety of call handling equipment may be used it is desirable to avoid having to customize the speech analytics component to perform capabilities unique to each configuration of the different types of call handling equipment. For example the speech analytics component may be shared among various call handlers in a call center and or provided on a service bureau basis. Thus the call center operator may not be able to and may prefer to avoid having to reprogram the speech analytics component each time a new or modified regulation is discovered. Rather the reconfiguration of the speech analytics component may be accomplished by merely loading or modifying the keyword sets and the control logic script as needed.

The call processing logic script allows the call handler to determine when an agent has not complied with a certain policy as defined by the call center operator. For example based on the type of call the agent may be required to inform the called party at the beginning of the call of certain information. Depending on the context it may be merely desirable that the agent uses a specified introductory statement or it may be required that the agent uses a very specific introductory statement and failure to do so may constitute a regulatory violation that can subject the contact center operator to fines. Assuming the greeting format is merely desirable then based upon the event notification from the speech analytics component or lack thereof the call processing logic script may handle the context appropriate. For example the call processing logic script may simply record a notation in an agent performance file that the agent failed to meet an aspirational policy. If the introductory statement is provided to meet a regulation and compliance is required then the call processing logic script may not only record a notation upon failure to detect the statement but present a text warning to the agent on their computer and immediately notify the agent s supervisor. Thus a call handler via the call processing logic script has the flexibility to provide different types of actions based on defining different call processing logic scripts to meet different policies or requirements. If the call processing logic script were integrated with the speech analytics component then a new module would be required for addressing each variation. This would increase the complexity of the speech analytics component and provide a processing burden as the architecture is scaled.

The call processing logic script can also assist the agent in compliance with certain policies by performing actions such as informing the agent of what a proper response requires for a certain situation. Once the call processing logic script receives certain event notifications from the speech analytics system it can determine for that agent what the appropriate response should be. For example for a novice agent the call processing logic script could pop up detailed information including a text based script that the agent should read to the called party. Or the call processing logic script could present options of pre recorded scripts in the agent s voice that the agent can command to be played to the called party. If the agent is instead an experienced agent the call processing logic script could merely present a reminder warning to the agent. The flexibility as to how the call processing logic script handles an event notification allows the call center operator to define an appropriate response for the event notification taking into account various circumstances.

In addition to assisting the agent with compliance the call processing logic script can also increase agent productivity by assisting the agent with activities associated with handling the call. The call processing logic script may invoke certain applications or write data to certain applications or files. This may save a few seconds of keystroke time and minimize agent data entry errors during a call. Since this may be repeated for many calls and for many agents the savings can be significant.

For example in certain contexts the remote party may choose to purchase a product or make a payment by credit card. This requires the agent to open a credit card payment application on their computer screen and then follow a strict sequence of steps namely asking for the card type the card number expiration date and security code. The call processing logic script can facilitate opening the credit card application. After the agent asks the called party would you like to pay by credit card and the called party says yes then the call processing logic script may receive a corresponding event notification from the speech analytics component identifying this context. Namely the event may inform that these keywords have been detected by the speech analytics component. The call processing logic script may then invoke the credit card application on the agent s computer thus avoiding the agent having to find and select the icon to open the credit card application. In addition the call processing logic script can select and play several appropriate scripts recorded in the agent s voice which include voice prompts for requesting the credit card type number etc. Further the call processing logic script can instruct the speech analytics component to monitor and report back with the credit card type number etc. spoken by the remote party. The call processing logic script can then present the card number on the agent s screen for verification. Thus in such an embodiment the agent can hear a dialogue between the remote party and the pre recorded scripts and see the corresponding text based display of the answers on the agent s computer. The agent can view the information verify that the recognition of the remote party s response is correct and then simply click on an icon to request that the charge be processed by the credit card application.

In other embodiments the call processing logic script can open a customer relationship management CRM application access a web page retrieve text email information etc. on behalf of the agent. For example if the customer indicates that they would like to place an order the call processing logic script upon receiving the event could open up the product ordering application.

Another example of how agent efficiency may be increased using the concepts and technologies disclosed herein involves the call processing logic script coding a call on behalf of the agent at the end of the call. Coding a call refers to entering a disposition code by the agent on an application executing on the agent s computer. The disposition code reflects status information the disposition about the call just completed by the agent. The definition of these codes varies as call center operators have flexibility in defining how granular these codes may be. For example if the answering party indicated that the intended called party has moved or if the telephone number has been reassigned the agent may enter a disposition code indicating that the number is no longer associated with the intended individual and should not be re dialed or attempted again. The call processing logic script may receive an event notification from the speech analytics component reflecting this context and pre populate the appropriate disposition code in the call processing application for the agent. This saves time for the agent and the agent merely has to confirm the code value at the end of the call. Although the time savings may be only a few seconds this activity may be required for every call by each agent and when multiplied for all call agents the time savings may be significant.

It becomes evident that the call processing logic script becomes a powerful tool to augment the call center s capabilities of using the speech analytics component. The call processing logic script allows a variety of call center agent policy violations to be avoided detected or mitigated. By informing or warning an agent of a required response the policy violation by an agent can be avoided. By detecting an actual policy violation the agent policy violation no longer goes undetected for many calls possibly over many days. Finally by responding to a policy violation immediately it is possible to mitigate the impact of the policy violation while the agent is still on the call. None of these capabilities are possible without the call processing logic script executing in the call handler. Simply having a sophisticated speech analytics component without a corresponding call processing logic script that is able to act upon the event notifications does not allow such features to be provided.

As with the control logic script in the speech analytics component the call processing logic script can be defined so that a single control logic script is executing for all incoming call legs . In other embodiments multiple call processing logic scripts can be defined that operate on distinct calls. For example a first call processing logic script could operate for calls associated with a certain incoming call campaign whereas a second control logic script could operate for calls associated with another incoming or outgoing call campaign. Thus the call processing logic script can be associated to process calls for a particular call campaign call type incoming or outgoing for a particular agent or set of agents for a particular incoming telephone number trunk group or other distinguishing aspect. Although the call processing logic script in the call handler is associated with a particular control logic script in the speech analytics component it is not required to be a unique one to one correspondence. Specifically multiple different call processing logic scripts in the same or in different call handlers may interact with the same control logic script in a single speech analytics component.

The call processing logic script also can control aspects of the control logic script in the speech analytics component indicating when it should use certain keyword sets for which calls and for which parties. The call processing logic script can utilize various conditional logic commands and other logical constructs to determine when and how certain actions are to be performed. This may also involve establishing timers or other conditions that detect when a keyword was or was not detected. For example the absence of receiving a keyword during a specified time period can be interpreted as that party not speaking the keyword.

In some embodiments the call processing logic script may incorporate multiple threads of logic for acting on distinct event notifications or separate call processing logic scripts may concurrently act upon the same call. The call processing logic script can be programmed to handle various compliance contexts so that it is flexible enough to be defined by the call center operator as needed to perform real time agent compliance monitoring.

The call handler also maintains other information that allows the call processing logic script to perform the necessary functions. For example the call handler may know or have access to information regarding the agent s supervisor or skill set so that the call processing logic script can take actions dependent on the agent specific information. This information is not readily available to the speech recognition component and provides another reason why the compliance specific aspects are implemented in the call processing logic script.

Returning back to the call handler is likely serving a plurality of agent workstations e.g. agent computers and phones . Thus there is likely a plurality of call legs between the call handler and the speech analytics component . Each event notification received by the call processing logic scrip must be able to map the call reference information in the event to a particular agent workstation so that any actions performed that involve the agent s computer can be uniquely addressed to the appropriate agent s computer. Other actions may be directed to a common resource e.g. a database that all agents use which does not require the same mapping.

Thus the event notification message received by the call handler from the control logic script may include several pieces of information. First a call identifier is included in the event notification. Presuming that there may be multiple call legs between the call handler and the speech analytics component call identification information must be included so that the call processing logic scrip knows what call the event pertains to. Second the event notification may include identification of which keyword set was involved. In some embodiments multiple keyword sets may be applied to a party and may be necessary to know from which keyword set s a phrase was detected. Third depending on how keyword sets are defined information may also be provided as to which party was involved in matching a word in a keyword set e.g. the agent or the called party. Finally there may be benefit to indicating which word was detected in the keyword set.

It is presumed that events are transmitted in real time from the speech analytics component to the call handler. In some embodiments a time stamp of the detection time may be provided.

Thus the call processing logic script knows upon receiving an event notification which call is involved what keyword and keyword set is involved whose speech was detected and when the detection occurred. There may be a fixed or variable structure of the API protocol and a limited set of elements may be sufficient to provide the necessary information.

The API protocol between the speech analytics component and the call handler can vary in complexity. The complexity depends in part on where functionality is allocated between the control logic script in the speech analytics component and the call processing logic script in the call handler. In one embodiment the more complex logic processing is placed in the call handler as opposed to the speech analytics component. This simplifies the functionality in the speech analytics component. An example will illustrate the tradeoffs.

Returning to the debt collection example an event notification from the speech analytics component could indicate to the call handler that a remote party was detected as using the word bankruptcy and then a second event notification could indicate detection of the agent speaking the word lawyer. This would allow the call handler to detect that the agent complied with the appropriate policy.

However what if after the event notification that reported the called party used the word bankruptcy there was no follow up event notification that the agent used the word lawyer The call processing logic script could start a timer upon receiving the first event notification and if a second event notification is not received regarding the agent speaking the word lawyer within 60 seconds it can be presumed that the agent did not respond properly.

It is also possible to implement this timer in the control logic script and avoid the timer being implemented in the call handler. This would allow the speech analytics component to start the timer after detecting the called party s match of the keyword set. However in order to convey this additional message formats would have to be defined. The control logic script would send a first event notification when the called party speaks the word bankruptcy and would have to send a second event notification signifying that the agent did not speak a word from the second keyword set. It would not be difficult to define such a message but this example illustrates that the definition of the API protocol may be impacted by how the functionality is distributed between the call handler and speech analytics component depending on whether the timer is in the call handler or speech analytics component .

In light of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein those skilled in the art can readily define a protocol comprising syntax and semantic element definitions for the event notifications sent by the speech analytics component to the call handler. It is envisioned that various embodiments may distribute functionality differently between the call handler and speech analytics component and hence different protocols may be used. More information of an exemplary call processing logic script structure is provided below.

An example application of using the API in the call handler is now illustrated. In this example the call handler is a dialer. Turning to the called party the dialer the agent s workstation comprising a phone and computer and the speech analytics component are shown. Time is represented as increasing in a downward direction. To distinguish between voice communication and signaling messages voice communications are shown by horizontal solid lines e.g. line whereas signaling messages are shown as horizontal dotted lines e.g. line . For purposes of convenience the figure illustrates the dialer which comprises the call processing logic script and the speech analytics component which comprises the control logic script. Thus although the signaling messages may be described herein as being sent to the dialer the messages are actually processed by the call processing logic script in the dialer.

The message diagram begins with the dialer originating an outbound voice call via call leg to the called party. The dialer also establishes contemporaneously a call leg to the agent s phone and another call leg which may be unidirectional to the speech analytics component. These call legs may be associated with a 3 way bridge or other suitable bridging device. In summary the dialer has established a call between the called party and the agent with the speech analytics component being able to monitor and analyze the conversation.

The speech analytics component monitors the called party s speech in operation to detect a word in a specified keyword set. For purposes of illustration in this example the called party informs the agent that they have filed for bankruptcy. At this point in the call the speech analytics component informs the dialer of the detection of a keyword that is in the appropriate keyword set. The dialer responds by causing an appropriate pop up text window to display on the agent s computer to inform the agent of the situation and indicate the proper response to be provided by the agent by sending message . This results in the data being displayed on the agent s computer display in operation which may be using a pop up text window. In some embodiments the option of the agent selecting a pre recorded script that could be played to the called party could also be presented to the agent at this point.

In this example it is assumed that the agent provides a verbal response to the 3 way bridge and the response is provided to the called party and to the speech analytics component over call legs . The speech analytics component monitors the agent s response to determine if a proper response is being provided in operation . Determining that the agent has or has not provided a proper response is accomplished by using another keyword set and detecting whether the agent uses one of those keywords. Detecting whether the agent uses one of the keywords may require a minimum amount of time since the agent may not use one of the keywords immediately. For example upon being informed by the called party that they have entered bankruptcy the agent may respond with I am sorry to hear that we understand that it is an available legal course of action. Thus the agent may not necessarily use a keyword e.g. lawyer in the initial few seconds of their response. Then the agent may follow up with Can you tell me the name of your lawyer The appropriate time limit is dependent on the context and may be determined by the call center operator.

If no keyword is detected in operation the speech analytics component sends an event notification via message informing the dialer that no keyword was detected. The dialer in response may transmit a message resulting in a pop up window that reminds the agent to ask the called party for their lawyer s name. In addition the agent may be presented with an option to play a pre recorded script. This may result in a pop up window displayed on the agent s computer in operation with the suitable icons and functions to do so.

In this example it is presumed that the agent selects the option to play the pre recorded script which results in message sent to the dialer. There the dialer retrieves and plays the appropriate pre recorded script in operation . Because it is recorded beforehand to address a particular situation the recording can be presumed to be an appropriate response. The result is an audio recording that is played to the called party to the agent and to the speech analytics component using call legs and respectively.

Turning to this messaging presents a slightly different embodiment but largely based on the same debt collection situation as shown in . The steps up to operation are the same where the agent is presented with the warning text and the option of playing a pre recorded script. In this embodiment the agent decides not to select playing the pre recorded script and instead continues with a live dialog with the called party.

The agent s second response and is provided to the conference bridge not shown which then provides the response to the called party and to the speech analytics component. The speech analytics component continues to monitor the agent s speech for the appropriate keyword in operation since the agent has not yet stated a proper response. If there is another failure in detecting the proper response from the agent then a second event notification is sent via message to the dialer informing it that the agent has not provided a proper second response. At this point the dialer may take various actions such as notifying the supervisor in real time via a text message and recording a procedural violation in operation . Although not shown the dialer could provide a second warning text window or take other actions.

In the message diagrams of the speech analytics component functions to detect occurrences of keywords from an appropriate keyword set from either the agent s speech or the called party s speech. Upon detection or lack of detection of a keyword the speech analytics component informs the dialer via an event notification. The dialer then takes appropriate action. In other embodiments the functionality of the speech analytics component could be integrated into the dialer or the functionality of the dialer acting upon the event notification could be performed by the speech analytics component such that the actions originate from the speech analytics component. This architecture represents one embodiment and those skilled in the art after reviewing the present disclosure may develop other alternatives with different distributions of functionality.

It becomes evident that the speech analytics component must know which keywords are to be used on a given call and whether the application of a particular keyword set applies to the agent s speech the called party s speech or both. Further if the absence of a keyword is indicated a timer has to be defined to trigger when the event notification is sent to the dialer. In other words the timer indicates a time period during which the keyword is or is not detected. It can be appreciated that different keyword sets may be required at different times of a call or may be predicated on detection of a keyword in an earlier keyword set. Thus subsequent keyword sets may or may not be applied depending on whether a keyword from a first keyword set is detected or lack thereof is detected .

It is evident from the above example that the call hander needs to know the context in order to properly process event notifications. The call handler needs to know what keyword sets the speech analytics component is using and how to interpret an event that a keyword has been detected or lack thereof . The call handler also needs to know for which calls the keyword has been detected. Finally the call handler also has to know what actions should be taken upon receipt of an event notification. This is determined by the appropriate logic in the call processing logic script.

The information required to process a particular context for enforcing compliance is collectively called a compliance handler set group CHSG . A CHSG is a grouping of information that defines how to handle a particular compliance context. The information comprises different defined sets of information which are of different types. There are three main types of information sets keyword sets action sets and logic sets. The keyword sets comprise a grouping of keywords that are related to a common theme. The action sets define a set of allowable actions that may be invoked upon receipt of an event notifying that a keyword in a keyword set was detected. Thus an action may depend on a first event notification received involving detection of a first keyword set by a first party and then a second event notification received involving detection of a second keyword set by a second party. The scope of the actions can vary as previously described and may include writing data displaying data to the agent playing pre recorded scripts transmitting a short message service SMS message to a destination etc.

The third type of information set is a logic set. Logic sets may be of two types a call processing logic script and a speech analytics control logic script. The call processing logic script may be executed by the call handler or dialer ACD or some other device and the speech analytics control logic script also referred to a simply the control logic script is executed by the speech analytics component. Note that in some embodiments the call processing script may be running in a server that communicates to the call handler. The control logic script in the speech analytic component is typically more limited in functional capabilities and largely pertains to defining which keyword sets are to be used for which party and reporting events of detecting a keyword in a party s speech. The call processing logic script is typically more feature rich. It defines what actions are to occur in response to receiving an event notification. As mentioned before in one embodiment greater functionality is in the call handler as opposed to the speech analytics component. Hence the control logic script in the speech analytics component may be relatively simple control logic as compared to the call processing logic script.

The relationship of these different sets of information can be illustrated as shown in . illustrates one embodiment of a CHSG that addresses the debt collection context previously discussed. In this embodiment there are two keyword sets. One keyword set is associated with the called party. Associating a keyword set to a party means that the set is used when analyzing speech from that party. In this figure the keyword set is simply referred to as Keyword Set 1. In other embodiments the keyword set may have a more descriptive name such as bankruptcy. This keyword set represents words that may be analyzed by the speech analytics component for speech from the remote party. The words in this keyword sets include bankruptcy bankrupt chapter 7 filed for Bankruptcy. These are the words or phrases associated with the debt collection context which in this example is determining when the called party has informed the agent of their bankruptcy filing. Other words may be included or added over time as experience develops in identifying such contexts.

There is a second keyword set that is associated with the agent. These are the words that the agent should be expected to say upon being informed of the called party s bankruptcy. Since the agent is expected to inquire the called party s attorney these words include Attorney Law Firm Lawyer Name Contact Number and Phone Number. These are words that would expect to be spoken by the agent when asking the called party about their lawyer s name. Additional words may be defined to determine if the agent asks for the case number court identification etc. In other embodiments the keyword set name may be more descriptive such as the lawyer inquiry name previously mentioned.

The keyword sets are used by the speech analytics component to monitor speech. Merely knowing the keyword sets may not be sufficient as the speech analytics component may require to know which set to use when e.g. for which calls and at what time during a call for which party and under what situations. For this the speech analytic control logic script is used. In other embodiments the speech analytics component may simply apply a single superset of all keywords and report events whenever they occur.

The speech analytics control logic script comprises commands and data that informs the speech analytics component how and when to use the keyword sets. The script begins by defining events which are designated as e.g. E1 in a preamble. These events represent what keyword set is used for which party. For example event E1 in this figure means to detect a keyword from Keyword Set 1 that is spoken by the called party. Event E2 refers to detecting a keyword from Keyword Set 2 spoken by the agent. The syntax is a label e.g. E1 followed by the command Detect followed by the name of the keyword set followed by the command BY and the appropriate party e.g. Agent or Called Party . This example is a command to analyze speech from a certain party using the indicated keyword set. Note that other syntax structures could be defined. This could be used to indicate which campaign or trunk groups are associated with which keyword sets.

The next portion is the core logic portion of the control logic script which is demarked by a Begin and End statement with commands identified between. The command PERFORM means to execute the indicated event s which in this case is the aforementioned action E1. The next statement commands that if event E1 is true has occurred e.g. a keyword from keyword set 1 is detected then action E2 is PERFORMED. In essence the speech analytics control logic script tells the speech analytics component to monitor the called party s speech for the bankruptcy related words and if detected then monitor the agent for appropriate response words in the second keyword set. Each time a keyword is detected an event notification is sent.

For each control logic script in the speech analytics component there is a corresponding logic script in the call handler. The corresponding logic script in this example is in the dialer in other examples it could other forms of a call handler and referred to as the call processing logic script . The call processing logic script processes the event notifications generated by the control logic script and may initiate one or more actions as defined in the action set . The action set indicates various possible actions that the dialer may take upon receiving an event notification. Example actions include displaying text where the text may be defined displaying a web page monitoring the agent s speech monitoring the called party s speech writing data to a file etc.

The call processing logic script implements the logic indicating what should be done under certain conditions. The call processing logic script may define conditions in a preamble. In this example E1 refers is event notification 1 and this event notification is associated with the called party speaking a keyword from Keyword Set 1 within a time period T1. A similar event notification E2 is defined that pertains to the event of detecting whether the agent has spoken a keyword from keyword set 2 within time period T2. It is not by coincidence that the event notifications in the call handler correspond to the events detected in the control logic script.

The core portion of the call processing logic script is again delimited by a Begin and End statement . Because of space limitations only a portion of the control logic for the debt collection example is shown. The first command is IF E1 THEN PERFORM Action Set 1 d USING Keyword Set 2. This command states that if the condition of E1 occurs within time period T1 e.g. the called party states a bankruptcy word then PERFORM the action item d from Action Set 1. This action is defined as Monitor Agent and specifically the agent is monitored using Keyword Set 2 which is an appropriate agent response word. The value of T1 can be hardcoded or another data set of timers can be defined.

The second command IF E2 THEN PERFORM Action Set 1 f is a command that directs if condition E2 is observed within the time period T2 e.g. the agent speak an appropriate response word then execution of the action item f from Action Set 1 is performed. This action is to write data to a file. This action could be to record data indicating that the agent provided a proper response and complied with regulations or policies.

The third command IF NOT E2 THEN PERFORM Action Set 1 c indicates that if event notification E2 is not observed within the time period T2 e.g. no event notification of a proper response is detected by the agent then action item c is performed which is to notify the agent s supervisor. Other actions could be performed. For example a warning could be initially presented to the agent on their computer screen and if the proper response is not detected within another time period then the agent s supervisor can be notified. Other actions may occur but this limited example is sufficient to illustrate the concepts for dealing with a non compliance situation.

This command language is exemplary. First it does not describe how to handle all the scenarios discussed above. For example the logic script shown does not address displaying an icon to the agent for playing a pre recorded script as was mentioned previously. The language s syntax and semantics may be augmented in various ways. Those skilled in the art may adapt or defined another control structure programming language syntax or control language for accomplishing such sequence of functions and operations. For example the definition of how long a party may be monitored for detection of a keyword can be indicated in various ways.

The administrator may define the script using a text editor to type the commands or a wizard comprising drop down menus could be used to define the sequence of operations that are to occur thereby defining the logic script. Those experienced with API design could define various alternatives for controlling what actions should be taken based on which event notifications are received.

One purpose of is to illustrate that in order to handle a particular context for a certain type of call various keyword sets have to be defined. In this example keyword sets are defined for the called party and for the agent. Further logic has to be defined as to how the speech analytics component uses the keyword sets. Finally logic has to be defined by the call controller as to how to interpret the event notifications provided by the speech analytics component. The logic has to be able to perform actions based on the event notifications from the speech analytics component and defines logical conditions as to when certain actions are triggered.

In this example the focus was only the debt collection call. Other campaigns may be simultaneously processed and the call handler and the speech analytics component may have different CHSGs defined for other campaigns. Thus mechanisms are required to associate a call leg and an event notification to a particular campaign. This can be done using a variety of mechanisms for associated a CHSG to a campaign and associating a call leg to a campaign so that the appropriate information sets for the appropriate CHSG are applied. It is possible for CHSGs to use common keyword sets or share the definition of the same actions.

Other embodiments may not require the formal definition of the information sets as disclosed e.g. keyword sets actions sets and logic sets . Other embodiments may define for example the allowable actions in the command language itself instead of referencing a defined action set. Similarly the keyword sets could be defined in the command language. Other embodiments may allow an administrator to define or identify keyword sets in a different manner.

The CHSG defines the data for handling agent compliance for a particular context. Hence the name Compliance Handle Set Grouping. Each compliance condition will require a unique CHSG to define how to handle that particular situation. Because each compliance condition is unique a CHSG for a debt collection call is likely to be inappropriate for a telemarketing sales context and likewise inappropriate for a customer service call. Since call centers may have call campaigns for different purposes different CHSGs may be defined and associated with these different campaigns. Further it is possible that a given call in a campaign may have multiple CHSGs associated with it defining how to handle different situations that may arise within a call. Alternatively the different situations that need to be handled on a call may be defined within a single CHSG. The disclosed infrastructure is quite flexible as to how call processing scripts can be defined to handle various situations that may arise.

For example in one embodiment the speech analytics component may have only a single large keyword set. Whenever a keyword is detected an event notification is transmitted to the call handler. In many instances it is possible that the event notification indicates a word was detected that is not relevant to handling a particular context. In such embodiments the call processing logic script may simply ignore such event notifications that are not relevant to a particular context. Thus the concepts of how the different information sets may be structured defined and allocated may be reflected differently in other embodiments without departing from the spirit of the concepts and technologies disclosure herein.

Many of the compliance policies may be specific to a particular state i.e. geo political area . That is federal regulations may apply to all calls but state specific regulation may only apply to calls originating or terminating in a particular state. For example certain states allow recording of calls with only one party consenting to the recording. Thus the call center agent can consent to recording and there is no need to request permission or notify the other party that the call is being recorded. Other states require both parties or all parties if a conference call is involved to consent to recording so there is a need for the agent to notify or request permission of the other party. Depending on the state involved the speech analytics component can apply a keyword set to the agent s speech at the beginning of the call that detects whether the agent initially notified or requested permission from the other party. Further the remote party s response can be analyzed as well.

In this application it is evident that that whether the agent conforms to the appropriate policy depends on which state the call is destined to. The agent may be made aware of the destination state via a display at their computer workstation indicating the state the call is destined to and whether the appropriate state regulations require two party or one party consent. However if the call processing logic script is not aware of the state then the call processing logic script cannot properly evaluate an event notification from the speech analytics component to ensure whether the agent has complied or not. In other words simply because an event notification indicates the agent did not ask for consent does not mean there is a policy violation. It would only be a policy violation if the call involved a two party consent state. Thus the call processing logic script must have access to determine the state the call is associated with.

In some instances this can be accomplished by a function call initiated by the call processing logic script or using an API to an application module that identifies the state. This can be accomplished in the module by mapping the called number to a state by address lookup or some other means. In this manner the call processing logic script can then ascertain the state the call is destined to. Such application modules may be executing in the call handler for other purposes. Further data structures can be defined that associate a group of states with a certain capability. For example the call processing logic script could define a first set of states as one party consent states and another set of states as two party consent states. After querying an external module for the state associated with the call the appropriate data structures could be used to determine whether the call should apply the one party consent or two party consent rules. Thus the call processing control logic can properly process the event notifications to determine if the state specific policies that should be applied.

In some instances the state associated with the call may not be known. For example incoming calls from cell phones may have numbers in an area code of one state but the person is using the mobile phone in another state. Thus the agent may be asked to confirm the state even though the state may have been tentatively identified. In other instances a caller may block their calling number so that it is not possible to even tentatively identify the calling state. The call processing script logic can check that the agent is confirming the state when it is known or asking about the caller s state if the state is unknown.

Once the CHSG is defined the CHSG is associated with the call campaign in operation . This may involve loading the appropriate data associated with the CHSG into the appropriate call handlers and speech analytics components along with the campaign data. Once this is done then calls associated with the campaign can be received in operation .

For each incoming call the particular call processing logic script in the CHSG is executed in operation . Simultaneously the speech analytics component is executing the control logic script. The call processing logic script in the call handler involves reacting to various event notifications sent by the speech analytics control logic script and in response thereto performs certain actions which are also defined by the call processing logic script. If there are additional incoming calls in operation then the process loops back to operation . If not then if there are no further calls the process is completed.

Next the call processing logic script is defined in operation . The call processing logic script indicates in part what actions should occur in the call handler upon detection of a keyword by the speech analytics component. This logic is typically unique for a particular compliance context. A similar control logic script is defined for the speech analytics component in operation . In one embodiment the functions performed by the speech analytics component may be more limited and pertain to detecting keywords from keyword sets and reporting the same. In other embodiments additional functionality could be defined so that more sophisticated actions can be performed by the speech analytics component upon detection of a keyword. In this embodiment the functionality in the speech analytics control logic script is more limited compared to the call processing logic script.

In operation the data sets of the CHSG are saved and in operation the data sets are transmitted pushed to the appropriate call center components if required . At this point the call center components may be ready to process calls. Note that is some embodiments the CHSG may be created separately on the call handler and the speech analytics component so that no information set needs to be pushed to a corresponding component.

The process flow performed by the call handler which in the debt collection situation involves a dialer is shown in . This process flow again illustrates aspects of the debt collection example previously discussed. This process flow begins with retrieving the call processing logic script for the campaign being executed in operation . Next an outbound call is originated and a call leg is connected to the agent and to the speech analytics component in operation . Next operations and in combination serve to monitor whether any event notification is received from the speech analytics component for this call. If no event notification is received that a keyword has been detected in operation e.g. a bankruptcy related keyword spoken by the called party then the process proceeds to operation which determines if the call is completed. If not then the process flow loops back to operation to monitor for any received events. Otherwise if the call is completed in operation then the process loops back to operation for processing a new call.

If a keyword is detected as manifested by receiving an event that a keyword has been spoken by a party in operation then the dialer retrieves the appropriate text as defined by the script logic in operation and causes the defined text to be displayed on the agent s computer in operation . At this point the agent has been informed of the correct procedures that should be followed upon the remote party declaring they have filed for bankruptcy.

Next a test determines whether the agent properly responded in operation . In this embodiment the speech analytics component sends an event notification if the proper response was or was not detected by the agent within a set amount of time. If an event notification is not received that the agent failed to speak one of the keywords e.g. indicative that a proper response was provided by the agent then the process proceeds to operation where a determination is made whether the call has completed. If so the process loops back to operation . Otherwise the process loops back to operation to continue monitoring the agent s response.

If an event notification is received that the agent did not respond appropriately in operation then another text is provided to the agent s display in operation . Specifically a warning and an option to play a script is presented to the agent in operation . If the agent selects the script in operation then the script is played to the called party in operation . The process then loops back to operation for processing another call. In other embodiments the call handler may simply play the pre recorded script in operation by continuing direct to operation and not allow the agent to make the determination whether to play the script thereby skipping operation .

If the agent does not select the script in operation then presumably the agent is deciding to continue the live dialogue with the called party. The speech analytics component monitors the agent s speech. A test occurs whether a second event notification is received reflecting that the agent did not provide an appropriate response at operation . If not then the process continues to operation which effectively monitors the agent for the second event notification for the remainder of the call.

If an event notification is received that the agent did not speak an acceptable keyword in operation then in operation a violation of policy is recorded. Other actions may include notifying the agent s supervisor. If the second event notification is not received in operation then this means the agent did speak an appropriate response. Once the call is completed in operation the process loops back to operation for processing the next call.

The process flow in is exemplary and shows how the call processing logic script may act upon being informed by the speech analytics component that the remote party has detected an event e.g. they have filed for bankruptcy . Namely the agent is to be provided with information on how to handle the situation and is provided the option of playing a pre recorded announcement. If the pre recorded announcement is played then presumably a proper response has been provided. If the agent continues with a live dialogue the call processing logic script waits to see if the speech analytics component indicates a suitable response was provided by the agent. If not then a warning display is provided to the agent and a second failure to respond by the agent properly results in recording an agent violation.

This process flow is comparatively simple as much more complex logic flows can be constructed for more complex situations and additional exception conditions can be defined. However this process flow is sufficient to illustrate how the dialer can execute a call processing logic script and react to a situation where the called party provides certain information and the agent is then informed how to respond but the agent then proceeds to ignore the information and fails to provide a correct response.

For example in operation a test occurs to determine whether the agent failed to provide a suitable response. This requires implementing a timer that defines a time window wherein if the agent does not provide a suitable response the determination is made that the agent failed to provide the suitable response. This timer could be implemented in the call processing logic script in the dialer or in the control logic script in the speech analytics component.

One embodiment of the processing logic for the speech analytics component is shown in . This processing flow is somewhat generalized in that it is not rigorously defined for the debt collection example and does not exactly correspond to the call processing logic script flow. The process flow for is applicable for this and other contexts although the explanation focuses on how it could be applied for the above mentioned debt collection context.

The process presumes that the appropriate control logic script is retrieved and ready for execution in the speech analytics component. The process begins with the speech analytics component receiving a new call in operation . Next the speech analytics component monitors the agent s or the called party s speech as appropriate in operation . For the example of the debt collection call the called party s speech would be monitored first to see if a bankruptcy related word is detected. If no such word is detected during the call then the process loops back up to operation to monitor the next call.

If in operation a keyword from the appropriate set is detected during the call then the process notifies the call handler in operation of the word detected and by whom. In the debt collection example the event notification would inform the call handler that the called party spoke a word from the bankruptcy keyword set and it would also identify the particular call involved. In some embodiments it may inform of the actual word detected.

In operation the speech analytics component executes the control logic script to determine whether there is any additional monitoring to be provided in response to detecting the called party s keyword. If not the process loops back to operation to process the next call. In the debt collection example after the called party is observed to have stated a bankruptcy keyword the agent is then monitored using another keyword set.

If the control logic script indicates that additional monitoring is required then the speech analytics component applies the appropriate keyword set as indicated in the control logic script for monitoring in operation . If the agent is then observed to have stated a keyword from this set indicating the agent responded properly then the processing may loop back and process the next call. If no matching keyword is detected in operation indicating the agent did not respond properly an event notification may be returned to the call processor in operation that indicates no match occurred. The processing flow may return to operation to determine if the control logic script requires applying yet another keyword set. In the debt collection example there was no third keyword set to be applied.

It is evident that the scripts for the dialer and the speech analytics component have to be designed to work together. For example in operation the speech analytics component determines whether e.g. the agent s response matches a keyword. In the debt collection example the purpose is to determine whether the agent provided a suitable response after being informed of the called party s bankruptcy. A corresponding function occurs in the control logic script in the dialer to receive and process the corresponding event notification or lack thereof from operation whereby if no matching keyword is detected by the agent an event notification signifies the agent has not provided a suitable response. In if a response is provided in operation the process simply loops back for the next call and no event notification is sent to the call handler.

This lack of response by the speech analytics component of detecting a keyword in the agent s keyword set is acceptable if the call handler implements a timer which is cancelled upon receiving an event notification of a matching keyword from the speech analytics component in operation . In other words the call processing logic script institutes a timer waiting for an event notification that the agent responded properly. If no event notification is received the timer expires and a violation is presumed by the call handler. Alternatively the timer could be instituted in the speech analytics component and an event notification of violation e.g. a failure to detect a suitable response by the agent within a time period is reported to the call handler. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the functionality can be distributed in different ways between the call processing script logic and the speech analytics control logic script. Corresponding changes are required in the process flow for the call handler and the speech analytics component as well in the messaging between them.

Another example of a slightly different CHSG is illustrated in . This builds upon the debt collection context by adding another keyword set which is continuously applied but where the logic for using it is separated from the logic associated with the other keyword sets. shows a CHSG which incorporates the same keyword set 1 and the same keyword set 2 for the debt collection scenario as before but adds a new agent keyword set 3 . This keyword set 3 comprises profanity words which are continuously applied against the agent s speech to ensure that the agent does not utter any profanities at any time while on a call. Thus application of this keyword set to the agent is not dependent on detecting any keyword from the called party. Further it is immaterial whether the called party uses profanity as the compliance condition is that the agent does not use profanity.

There is additional control logic required for both the call processing logic script and the speech analytics control logic script for using this new keyword set. The speech analytics control logic script has an additional action. The action includes PERFORM events E1 and E2 as before but now adds a new event of performing event E3 . Focusing on the performance of E3 this event is defined as E3 Detect Keyword Set 3 BY Agent . This event is to essentially monitor the agent s speech for any detection of a keyword in keyword set 3 e.g. the defined profanity words . As defined in the core logic portion the script indicates that this event is to be performed at all times not within a specified time. Its performance is separate and independent of other events detected that occur as a result of other actions associated with keyword sets. Specifically event E3 is not dependent on detecting any keywords from the remote party. Whenever a profanity is uttered by the agent an event notification is sent to the call handler. Different message syntax can be used in other embodiments as compare to the message syntax shown.

When the speech analytics component reports an event notification of a profanity uttered to the call handler this indicates detection of the condition defined by E3 in the call processing script logic. This event in the call processing script logic is defined as the same as the event detected speech analytics component which is to monitor for use of profanity. In other words the speech analytics component is told by the control logic to perform an action of detecting profanity which is reflected by transmitting an event notification that the condition is detected and the call processing logic script defines what the dialer should do upon detection of the event. Specifically the logic script indicates that if event E3 occurs then PERFORM Action Set 1 atext fdata j53. This indicates which actions from action set 1 are to be performed.

The action atext means specific text as defined within the brackets is displayed or caused to be displayed using the agent s computer. Next fdata indicates specified data is to written to a file. Next action c indicates the agent s supervisor should be notified immediately. This action requires a lookup to determine the agent s supervisor. These actions may function to warn the agent against using profanity record the portion of the call with the profanity so that it can be reviewed or record that a compliance violation occurred and notify the supervisor so that immediate action can be taken.

The syntax and format of the script logic can vary significantly from that illustrated depending on the function script design and other aspects. Those skilled in the art of script logic design will appreciate that variously scripting formats can be used.

Thus it is possible to have different levels of complexity of CHSGs. This is represented in which is intended to illustrate the breadth of applications and the flexibility afforded by the present architecture. Turning to and the first CHSG this focuses on analyzing the party s speech using a specified keyword set. The keyword set includes words that may indicate an unsatisfied customer. Upon detection of a keyword arrow indicates that an action is taken. The action is to record a potential unsatisfied customer. Upon reporting that action arrow returns to monitoring the keyword set.

This CHSG example may be the only CHSG executing on calls for a particular campaign. The CHSG only monitors the called party and records a possible unsatisfied customer. That is upon detection of a keyword the process returns to continue monitoring. The data collected could be used for identifying agents requiring additional training.

Another example involves two CHSGs both of which are focused only on only monitoring the agent. These may be running in parallel but independently. Here there are two word sets and . The keyword set 3 is used to monitor for agent profanities. If a profanity word is detected then the action is to notify the supervisor. Separately executing is another keyword set which monitors the agent for failure to assist. Thus for example phrases such as I don t know or can t help may be indicative of the agent not knowing the product details. The resulting action may be to record data indicating the agent requires product training . These two keyword sets and may operate independently. That is matching a keyword from one set is not predicated on any matching from the other set.

The third example illustrates two word sets which are linked. This corresponds to the bankruptcy context described above. Specifically one keyword set is used to monitor the called party s speech and if a keyword is detected then another keyword set is applied to the agent s speech. Specifically if the called party has informed the agent of bankruptcy then a keyword from the party keyword set 1 is detected. This in turn causes the keyword set 2 to be applied which may result in recording an instance of non compliance by the agent. Note that if a keyword from the party keyword set is never detected then the agent keyword set is not applied. Thus these keyword sets are dependent and cannot operate independently. It is possible to structure the CHSG for the bankruptcy example as two independent keyword sets which independently report events. If so then appropriate logic in the call handler must process the event notifications to detect the desired condition and implement the appropriate linking.

In one embodiment the different levels of complexity of the CHSG is largely reflected in the call processing logic script executing in the call handler. The functions of the control logic script in the speech analytics component is largely the same to monitor a party s speech and report the detection of a keyword. Thus the speech analytics component may be in some embodiments largely isolated with respect to complexity of the call processing.

Defining a CHSG for handling a particular compliance context can be facilitated by an administrator using a graphical user interface GUI . This can be provided by a module that executes in the speech analytics component the call handler or both. In some embodiments a portion of the information sets may be exported from one component to another. For example if the CHSG is defined in the call handler then the keyword sets and the speech analytics control logic must be loaded onto the speech analytics component. If the CHSG is defined in the speech analytics component then the call processing logic script needs to be exported to the call handler. Separate modules may execute on the call handler and the speech analytics allowing defining the appropriate modules such that no exporting is required.

One GUI example is shown in . In this screen various tabs for functions are shown. The selected tab provides a window for defining a keyword set. In one embodiment the words in a keyword set are listed individually . Adding a word may be accomplished by typing in a word selecting a keyword from an available vocabulary or selecting a set of phonemes associated with the word.

A function box may be defined to allow the user to link the keyword set with the agent called party or the calling party as appropriate. Another function box may allow functions to be performed on the keywords in the current keyword set. For example functions may include adding a new word deleting a word editing a word or changing the name of the keyword set. Once all the changes to the keyword set are defined the changes can be saved by selecting a save icon .

Turning to another screen can be shown that is associated with the edit keyword set function tab . In this case a window showing the list of keywords is provided with a function box indicating functions that may be applied to the keyword set including editing the contents of the keyword set copying and renaming a keyword set deleting a set changing the name or changing the association of the set with a particular party.

Finally shows one screen associated with the define call processing logic function tab that provides a window that allows the user to define the call processing logic. The call processing logic is associated with a script name so that different CHSGs may be defined. In this example the CHSG being defined is called the Bankruptcy Compliance handler.

Several windows are presented including a script window a command window a select keyword set window a conditions window an action window and a timer window . Appropriate icons and are provided for editing or defining new elements in certain windows and an icon is provided for saving.

In other embodiments a wizard or other forms of GUI interfaces may be used to allow the user to create the various data sets required to be defined in the call processing and speech analytic components. This can ensure that the syntax and semantics of the logic script conforms to the defined requirements.

The embodiments discussed above presume that there is a single speech analytics component and a single call handler in the form of a dialer. In other embodiments there may be a plurality of speech analytics components and call handlers. For example a call center may have separate call handlers for incoming calls e.g. an ACD and for outgoing calls dialer . Both may bridge calls to a single speech analytics component which analyzes speech on a call leg for a particular campaign. The speech analytics component may be remote located and operated as a service bureau. Alternative embodiments may involve a single dialer that establishes call legs to a pool of speech analytics components which provide a load sharing and redundancy capability.

In another embodiment there may be multiple call handler processing logic scripts that operate in coordination to process an event notification from a speech analytics component. For example returning to the call handler may implement a portion of the call processing logic script that receives the event notification and determines the applicable call campaign and agent. The call handler then forwards the event notification to the appropriate agent s workstation computer which then has a call processing logic script executing that processes the event notification. This may be based on each call campaign having a unique call processing logic script that is loaded into the agent s computer when they log in and start to receive calls. The call handler functions to route the event notifications to the appropriate agent s computer as necessary.

The actions that may be performed by the call processing logic script may include actions that result in information being displayed on the agent s computer. These types of actions may be considered as alerts because they inform the agent. As mentioned previously alerts can result in presenting text to the agent s screen or presenting icons for selecting pre recorded scripts. In addition certain actions that are not primarily classified as an alert may also result in another action performed namely alert presented to the agent. For example the action of bridging on the agent s supervisor does not by itself involve informing the agent of the condition but it may be appropriate to define the bridging action as also presenting an icon to the agent informing them of this situation. Other embodiments may simply display an icon representing a particular context. For example detection of a profanity word may result in presenting an icon to the agent representing no swearing. Thus displaying icons may be associated with a severity level of an action.

Other alerts may be presented to the agent based on their handling of a context. These alerts may not be explicitly defined as an action in the call processing logic script but are defined to be presented to the agent based on various conditions. For example returning to the debt collection example each such call has the potential of the called party informing the agent that they have declared bankruptcy. Therefore there is the potential for each call for the agent to handle in compliance with a policy or in non compliance with the policy. A visual indicator can be presented to the agent indicating how they are performing with respect to conforming to policies. For example the compliance indicator could be an icon of an arrow that is initially pointed horizontally. If the agent is determined to have conformed to a policy then the arrow is positioned to point up. If the agent is determined to have not confirmed to the policy the arrow could point down. This provides a continuous feedback indicator to the agent as to their performance.

In other embodiments a miniature stop light like icon could change colors to indicate compliance. In other embodiments a numerical or letter score could be presented to the agent for each call. Thus the agent receives a real time trend indicator or a real time call outcome score that provides feedback to the agent as to how they are performing. Further the agent may be able to select the icon and receive further detailed information regarding which compliance policies were determined to be non complied with allowing the agent to investigate and potentially learn from such instances. Further functionality may be provided where the user can flag that instance for dispute as there may have been an incorrect assessment by the system.

Other alerts may be presented to the agent on their desktop screen that merely informs the agent that real time compliance testing is active. Merely informing the agent that such compliance testing is being performed may remind the agent to properly conform in various contexts. The administrator may have the control to activate deactivate this on a per agent station basis.

In other embodiments the agent could be presented with a real time cumulative compliance score. Compliance could result in call compliance points being added to the agent s compliance file whereas non compliance could result in points being subtracted. This allows the severity of compliance non compliance to be tracked and presented to the agent. The accumulation of points could further be stored in a compliance file and associated with the agent. Further information about the context in which the points were accumulated may be recorded. The agent compliance file could be used in evaluating the agent s performance for a defined evaluation timeframe or all calls associated with a particular campaign. This compliance file could be used to determine if the agent should be trained for what topics receive a bonus or increase their performance rating etc.

In addition calls may be recorded retained and retrieved on the basis of certain context occurring. This allows the recorded calls to be used as a training tool. For example returning to the debt collection example if the agent fails to respond to the initial warning after the called party informs the agent of bankruptcy the call may be recorded. If the agent fails to respond after the second time of being warned the recording may be indexed as an example of an extreme failure to comply and may be retrieved and played to other agents as a training tool. Alternatively the recording may be reviewed between the agent and their supervisor for evaluation purposes. If an agent disputes a recordation of a compliance violation these calls could then be reviewed to verify that the compliance violation was correctly ascertained.

Information may be generated for each agent and for each call that provide a call by call evaluation of the agent s compliance to policies as well as an overall compliance. This data can be collected for all agents in a shift in the call center or working on a particular campaign. The call handler may maintain such information in a database such as the data store of which can be compiled into reports and used by the call center administrator. These reports may allow the administrator to review each agent s call compliance score for each call their cumulative compliance score major compliance violations as well as average values relative to others. In addition a real time dashboard can be presented to the call center administrator that shows the current per call and cumulative compliance scores for each agent in a campaign. Such reports can be structured for a shift defined time period per campaign per supervisor per team or any other such parameter as deemed appropriate.

The concepts and technologies disclosed above in conjunction with the compliance enforcement system are largely illustrated in regard to detection of a called party s bankruptcy filing for a debt collection call. Some other compliance related applications are provided but it should be recognized that many other contexts can be defined for using the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

In one embodiment a called party may request to be placed on a do not call list. The agent may be expected to disposition the call in a certain manner and confirm the number that is to be placed on the do not call list. The CES disclosed herein can detect if the called party requested to be placed in the do not call list and if so an application for adding the number to the do not call list can be opened on the agent s computer. Further the CES can detect whether the agent confirmed the number to the remote party and can warn the agent that confirmation is necessary. Finally the CES can disposition the call with the appropriate code assuming a code is defined for removing the number from all dialing lists.

In another embodiment involving debt collection agents are required to provide a statement to the called party at the beginning of the call informing them about the purpose of the call. This is sometimes referred to as mini Miranda in the art since it carries various ramifications if it is not stated at the beginning of the call. The CES can monitor for each call of an agent as to whether the agent has properly stated the mini Miranda statement at the beginning of each debt collection call.

In another embodiment agents initiating telemarketing calls offering refinancing of mortgages must provide certain information regarding the products being offered. The CES again can monitor each agent to ensure that the appropriate and required product information is being offered such as the effective interest rate and other terms.

In another embodiment callers seeking customer service may provide a product type model number and serial number for repair. The CES can monitor for certain keywords e.g. printer versus computer and present the agent with the appropriate information for troubleshooting the product. Further appropriate pages from repair guides can be presented to the agent.

In another embodiment the CES can detect when callers or agents are frustrated and present to the agent an option of conferencing a supervisor onto the call who can address unresolved issues. In an extreme case where the context dictates the CES can mute the agent on the call play a message to the called party Please hold while we connect you to a supervisor and then connect the party to a supervisor.

In another embodiment agents can be identified for training along with the subject to be trained. For example assume that an agent providing product support is asked questions about printers and computers. In various instances when asked by a caller about a printer model the agent winds up frequently saying I don t know or I will have to check. However these phrases are rarely spoken by the agent when questions are asked about the computer. This suggests that the agent is knowledgeable of the computer products but not with the printer products. By analyzing instances of when the agent indicated they do not know an answer to a question deficiencies for that agent on a particular product can be identified. This can be ascertained by analyzing data written based on an action in the call processing logic script. The agent can then be scheduled for training on the appropriate product.

In another embodiment the agent remote party conversation can be analyzed to determine whether the remote party consented to recording the call. Assuming that the remote party provided consent the call processing logic script can then invoke an action that activates call recording for the current call. The call processing logic script could also then deactivate it at the end of the call or the call recording could otherwise be automatically deactivated at the end of the call. In other embodiments call recording could be activated at the beginning of the call and if the remote party does not authorize recording then the call processing logic script could deactivate the call recording.

In the previous discussion it was explained how allocation of functions between the call handler and the speech analytics component impacts the protocol over the API and how the corresponding scripts are structured. In another embodiment all the flexibility is provided by the call handler and there is minimal flexibility provided by script logic in the speech analytics components.

In this embodiment the functions performed in the speech analytics component are limited and primarily relate to 1 loading a keyword set to be applied for a subsequent call LOAD 2 applying a specified keyword set to a specified party s speech on a specified call APPLY 3 removing the application of a specified keyword set REMOVE and 4 reporting event notifications of a detected keyword by a party EVENT . The API message is correspondingly limited to the call handler issuing commands to the speech analytics component to load a keyword set s apply a keyword set and remove a keyword set. In one embodiment there is no functionality in the speech analytics component to report if a party fails to state a word. Hence there are no timers executing in the speech analytics component for this function.

This approach has a benefit of conserving processing resources in the speech analytics component. If a keyword set is not required to be used at a certain point in the call the speech analytics component can be instructed to remove the application of the keyword set. Thus the speech is not analyzed to detect the keywords in the keywords set. This can also save conserving processing resources in the call handler. For example if a party s speech is no longer required to be monitored for a particular keyword then the call handler will not receive any event notifications. If the speech analytics component continued to monitor the speech and then reported an event notification then the call handler would have to ignore the event notification if the context indicated that such was not relevant. Thus if the event notification is not required processing resources are saved on both the speech analytics component and the call handler.

Of course some keyword sets may be required to be monitored throughout the call. For example the profanity keyword set may be monitored throughout the call since profanity may be uttered at any time and any time it is uttered it should be detected. On the other hand monitoring the agent for inquiry of a lawyer handling the remote party s bankruptcy is only applicable if the remote party has indicated they have filed for bankruptcy which typically is at the beginning of the call. Further once the party has indicated they filed for bankruptcy and the agent has inquired as to their lawyer there is no further need to continue to monitor the called party and the agent.

In many compliance related issues the agent is expected to respond in a certain manner after the remote party has stated certain information. Thus unnecessary processing for so called linked keyword sets can be avoided by first waiting for the remote party to state certain information before monitoring the agent. Further once the remote party has stated the information there is no reason to continue monitoring the remote party. In many instances each party may repeat words or phrases in a keyword set which may result in extraneous event notifications sent by the speech analytics component. However in many contexts there is not need to monitor the parties after a certain point in the call. Hence detection of keywords reporting of keywords and processing event notifications may not be required.

This simplified architecture can be illustrated using a message flow diagram as shown in . The message flow illustrates the call handler in the form of a dialer communicating with the speech analytics component . The process begins with the call handler loading campaign related data prior to handling any calls. This results in the call handler transmitting a message indicating which keyword sets will be required. This would include all keyword sets that are used for the call including ones may be applied generally for the entire call or keyword sets which are applied only based on the detection of a keyword from another keyword set.

In response the speech analytics component loads the necessary keyword sets in operation . A confirmation message may be sent back to the call handler.

Next the call handler establishes a call leg in message with an identifier value. In this example the call leg reference value is arbitrarily set to 53. Next the call handler sends an APPLY command instructing the speech analytics component to apply a keyword set in this case the bankruptcy keyword set for a particular call call leg 53 and for a particular party the remote party .

At this point the speech analytics component begins to monitor the remote party s speech in operation . When a keyword is detected an EVENT message is reported. Monitoring continues until the call handler sends a REMOVE command in message indicating that the keyword set no longer needs to be applied to the remote party.

Next the call handler instructs the speech analytics component to APPLY the lawyer inquiry keyword set to the same call but for monitoring the agent s speech via message . Thus the speech analytics component no longer is monitoring the remote party s speech but the agent s speech. This message triggers operation of monitoring the agent s speech. The call handler also starts a time in operation since if the agent does not respond properly within a timeframe the agent may be presumed to have been in non conformance.

Assuming the agent does respond properly an EVENT message is returned when the agent inquires of the lawyer handing the bankruptcy. In response the call handler terminates the timer in operation . The call handler may then send an REMOVE message to indicate that the agent should no longer be monitored.

In this example once the remote party indicates bankruptcy and the agent inquires of their lawyer there is no further need to detect and report events to the call handler of the remote party stating certain keywords and the agent stating other certain keywords. This frees up resources in the speech analytics components and avoids the call handler from having to field and ignore EVENT messages.

In this example the speech analytics component control logic script could effectively become a command parses that acts upon the LOAD APPY and REMOVE messages. In other embodiments other variations of the functions may be allocated differently and greater autonomous control may be defined in the speech analytics component.

Based on the above a call processing logic script language can be defined. Such exemplary scripting language could augment or modify the previously provided examples. The script logic commands that can be defined include 

The main logic command may be structured as an IF . . . THEN . . . ELSE type of command which is referred to herein as a conditional logic command. In many embodiments the format structure may simply be a IF . . . THEN format without an ELSE command e.g. the ELSE is optional . The IF portion pertains to whether the indicated condition is true. In many instances the condition is whether an event is received. It is clear now that the event notifications being acted upon in the call processing logic script must correspond to the same events that are being detected in the speech analytics component. If the test is for the event being false e.g. an event has not been received then the conditional logic command may be structured as IF NOT event Below are some common example scripting structures and what they indicate.

One skilled in the art can augment this scripting language can be augmented in various ways including allowing nested IF THEN ELSE statements commands to define timer values other conditional logic statements associating values to campaigns etc.

As shown in the processing system may include one or more processors that may communicate with other elements within the processing system via a bus . The processor may be implemented as one or more complex programmable logic devices CPLD conventional microprocessors multi core processors digital signal processors DSP system on a chip SOC co processing entities application specific integrated circuits ASIC field programmable gate arrays FPGA programmable logic arrays PLA hardware accelerators integrated circuit processors other circuitry or the like.

In one embodiment the processing system may also include one or more communications interfaces for communicating data via the local network with various external devices. In other embodiments communication may be via wired optical or wireless networks or a combination thereof . The communication may use a variety of data transmission protocols such as fiber distributed data interface FDDI Ethernet asynchronous transfer mode ATM or frame relay.

The input output controller may also communicate with one or more input devices or peripherals using an interface such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse a touch screen display input microphone pointing device etc. The input output controller may also communicate with output devices or peripherals such as displays printers speakers headsets banner displays etc.

The processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in volatile memory non volatile memory or other forms of non transitory computer readable storage media accessible to the processor . The volatile memory may comprise various types of memory technologies including but not limited to random access memory RAM dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM and other forms well known to those skilled in the art. The non volatile memory may comprise various technologies including but not limited to storage media such as hard disks floppy disks read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM electrically erasable read only memory EPROM flash memory and other forms well known to those skilled in the art.

The non volatile memory may store program code and data which also may be loaded into the volatile memory at execution time. Specifically the non volatile memory may store one or more computer program modules such as a logic script module containing instructions for performing the process and or functions associated with the technologies disclosed herein and related data such as keyword sets and or operating system code . In addition the logic script module may generate or access the data in the non volatile memory as well as in the volatile memory . The volatile memory and or non volatile memory may be used to store other information including but not limited to records applications programs scripts source code object code byte code compiled code interpreted code machine code executable instructions or the like. The volatile memory may include keyword sets action sets and other related data to implement the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. These instructions may be executed or processed by for example the processor . These may form a part of or may interact with the logic script module and or data .

The technologies described herein may be implemented in various ways including as computer program products comprising memory storing instructions causing a processor to perform the operations associated with the above technologies. The logical operations described herein may be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or one or more program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. Greater or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in a different order than those described herein.

The computer program product comprises a tangible non transitory computer readable storage medium storing applications programs program modules scripts source code program code object code byte code compiled code interpreted code machine code executable instructions and or the like also referred to herein as executable instructions instructions for execution program code and or similar terms . Such tangible non transitory computer readable storage media include all the above identified media including volatile and non volatile media but does not include a transitory propagating signal. Non volatile computer readable storage medium may specifically comprise a floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape compact disc read only memory CD ROM compact disc compact disc rewritable CD RW digital versatile disc DVD Blu ray disc BD any other non transitory optical medium and or the like. Non volatile computer readable storage medium may also comprise read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and or other technologies known to those skilled in the art.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the concepts and technologies set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that embodiments other than the embodiments disclosed herein are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms may be employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

