---

title: Method of manufacturing multi-component functional article
abstract: A method of manufacturing a multi-material functional article, the method comprising the steps of providing a design module from a database, the design module encoded with physical characteristics, material needs, additive manufacturing equipment required, and performance outputs required for modeling a multi-material functional article, allowing a user access to the design module to integrate the design module into a functional article design, having the design module interface with available additive manufacturing equipment and allowing the user to print the multi-material functional article.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09623609&OS=09623609&RS=09623609
owner: Vadient Optics, LLC
number: 09623609
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150210
---
This application is a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 599 731 filed on Jan. 18 2015 and is also a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 599 917 filed on Jan. 18 2015 and is also a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 293 574 filed on Jun. 2 2014 and is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 299 777 and is also a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 480 426 filed on Sep. 8 2014 and is also a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 307 071 filed on Jun. 17 2014 and is also a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 480 515 filed on Sep. 8 2014 and is also a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 554 399 filed on Nov. 26 2014 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates in general to methods of manufacturing articles with additive manufacturing equipment. The invention relates in particular to manufacturing multi material functional articles using design modules implementing additive manufacturing processes.

Traditional manufacture of a functional articles made of multiple components typically require a plurality of separate components manufactured separately. Mechanical electrical and optical components are each manufactured using different specialized processes. Generalizing mechanical components are manufactured at a machine shop with specialized equipment to machine the part based on its size material and complexity. Likewise an optical component such as a lens may be manufactured at an optical house with grinding and polishing equipment or optical fiber may be drawn at a draw tower. Electronic components such as an integrated circuit are typically made in semiconductor fab. The components are represented by distinct and separable drawing or electronic designs. The components are manufactured separately based on the drawing and then integrated to create the multicomponent functional article.

Design and manufacture of the functional article whether mechanical electrical optical or combinations thereof require considerable engineering time and expense. Typically an engineer or team of engineers design the components send the designs to different sites for manufacturers and then assemble or contract for assembly of the functional article

To provide mass markets the functional article the functional articles must be manufactured at off the shelf volumes or comprise of off the shelf components. Otherwise functional articles must be manufactured at higher cost on a per order basis with longer lead times due to the manufacturing process. Availability of the functional articles to consumers whether for direct use or integration into another design is then limited based on the functional articles use by large manufacturers. The design and manufacture of functional articles that are otherwise viable and useful are then unavailable to consumers and designers of the functional articles. Likewise incentive to design the functional articles is stifled.

The present invention is directed to methods of manufacturing multi material functional articles. In one aspect a method of manufacturing an article comprises the steps of providing a design module from a database the design module encoded with specifications material needs additive manufacturing equipment required and performance outputs required for modeling a multi material functional article. Then allowing access to the design module to integrate the design module into a functional article design. Then having the design module interface with available additive manufacturing equipment. Last allowing the multi material functional article to be printed.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like components are designated by like reference numerals. Methods and embodiments of the present invention are described further hereinbelow.

The design module is an encoded file with the information necessary to integrate and print the multi component functional article design embodied by the design module with available additive manufacturing equipment. Here multi component functional article means an article of various components the components operating in cooperation to give the article functionality. Preferably the database has the design modules aggregated and accessible via the internet or public or private cloud based clients.

Designers of the design modules can upload design modules to allow user integration. Preferably the database is managed to control the submissions of the design modules based on proven and printable designs. The design modules are preferably indexed and searchable according to specifications performance input and outputs material requirements and additive manufacturing equipment required. The user can then search among the design modules to either print the embodied multi component functional design individually or integrate a plurality of design modules into a more complex design.

The design module can represent a single component or preferably the design module is encoded with multiple integrated components. For example the design module can be encoded with mechanical electrical optical magnetic and thermal based systems sub systems and combinations thereof. Nonlimiting examples of basic components include such as fasteners structural cores resistors capacitors inductors lenses and waveguides. More complex examples include electro mechanical actuated members electro optic devices and integrated circuitry such as amplifiers and transistor. Similar to the semiconductor industry in which a complex electrical design are embodied by intellectual property cores IP cores which include series of lithography steps to create the design in a semiconductor fabhouse the present invention enables complex mechanical electrical and optical systems to be designed and manufactured. The design modules similar to IP cores are made available to users to integrate into more complex designs. The users can then offer those more complex designs as design modules or retain such designs and print the multi component functional articles for use or sale.

The design modules are encoded for manufacture on additive manufacturing equipment. Nonlimiting examples of additive manufacturing techniques include stereolithography SLA selective laser sintering SLS laminated object manufacturing LOM fused deposition modeling FDM electron beam melting EBM and selective laser melting SLM powder bed manufacturing and combinations thereof. The additive manufacturing equipment is preferably capable of depositing a plurality of materials.

Such additive manufacturing printers are available from a variety of manufacturers. Nonlimiting examples include manufactures such as 3DSystems Inc. of Rock Hill S.C. EnvisiontTEC Inc. of Dearborn Mich. FujiFilm of Japan and Stratasys Inc. of Minneapolis Minn. Hybrid approaches based on powder bed printing include plaster based printing wherein a binder is inkjet deposited onto granular material in a powder bed and then cured. One such hybridized material printer is the HP Multi Jet Fusion available from Hewlett Packard of Palo Alto Calif. Another hybridized 3D printer based on inkjet technology and nanoparticles is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 480 426 commonly owned by the assignee of the present invention and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The specifications include the basic physical characteristics including the shape volume and orientation and preferably include operating parameters such as mechanical structural thermal electrical optical magnetic properties and combinations thereof. For instance any given component will occupy a certain volume and have limited orientations options based on the printing process. Further the component will have performance characteristics and related operating conditions and ranges. Such parameters inform the user of viability in multiple component function article.

By way of example a printable optical element may specify orientation as limited by the printing process. For a refractive based optical element the design may specify numerical aperture NA focal length thickness working distance internal and external transmittance surface type surface constants surface irregularity transmitted wavefront aberration design wavelength or wavelength range Abbe Number refractive index or dispersion curve birefringence partial dispersion operating temperature range thermal coefficient of expansion TCE damage threshold and related process dependent variations thereof. With additive manufacturing equipment such as an inkjet printer gradient refractive optical elements GRIN can be manufactured. Such GRIN optics need further specification of the refractive gradient profile effective focal length pitch and GRIN Abbe number.

The design module also includes the material requirements needed to print the embodied article. The materials needs can include the basic material description and substitutes. If specialized material is required the design module preferably includes the manufacturers of the specialized material and allows access to manufacturer provide batch data if needed. Batch data is especially useful when the performance of the apparatus depends on the material properties. For instance the aforementioned refractive optical element will have performance limitations based on the optical properties of the transparent material deposited. Further optical elements such as GRIN optics require variation in the optical properties to generate the refractive gradients. Such optical elements require a plurality of materials mixed before or upon deposition. One method of providing such refractive gradients and providing the material required by depositing polymers with varying concentrations of dispersed nanoparticles is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 299 777 assigned to the assignee of the present invention and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In general the material required depends on the particular additive manufacturing equipment used. For instance in fused deposition modeling a filament line is usually employed. The filament line is typically made from a polymer but can be or be embedded with other materials including metals ceramics and organic matter to make composite filaments. With systems incorporating inkjet technology a multitude of ink materials and composites can be used. Likewise for powder bed systems a multitude of particle materials sizes and composites can be employed.

Preferably the design module is encoded with requisition information necessary to purchase and order the materials needed for printing. Such information can be part of or complement license arrangements for access integration and printing described further hereinbelow. Similarly the design module can be encoded with the information necessary to produce the required materials. For instance the design module can provide the instructions for producing the required material or otherwise control the production of material in additive manufacturing equipment that creates custom material on demand. One example of an inkjet 3D printer that produces printable nanocomposite material on demand with variable nanoparticle material size and concentration is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 480 426 commonly owned by the assignee of the present invention and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The design module is encoded with the compatible additive manufacturing equipment required and printing parameters. The design module can specify particular additive manufacturing equipment and preferably provide specified printing parameters required for manufacture. For designs that do not require specialized printing process control the design module can provide or allow slicer software to access to the computer aided design CAD standard tessellation file STL step file STEP or other such representation and determine the printing process. For components that cannot otherwise be manufactured with additive manufacturing technology alone the design module includes the methods and instruction to integrate the chips before during or after the printing process. For instance a design module may incorporate a semiconductor chip or plurality of electrical components which must be positioned within the multi component functional article during the printing process. The design module can be encoded with appropriate processes to pause printing allow placement of the components confirm placement and then resume printing.

By way of example when the design module requires an inkjet printer to manufacture the multi component functional article a variety of process related parameters must be specified. For instance nonlimiting process parameters for 3D inkjet printing include nozzle temperature substrate temperature ambient temperature droplet viscosity droplet size droplet velocity droplet settle time boundary conditions between adjacent droplets deposition frequency deposition pattern deposition angle deposition accuracy deposition repeatability cure mechanisms required cure exposure time material shrinkage or expansion stage speed substrate or material wettability material deposition order and deposition pattern. As another example laser sintered processes share some of those process patterns listed above as well as laser wavelength frequency pulse energy pulse width spectral properties of the particles particles size and dwell time.

The design module can employ a variety of deposition techniques both additive and subtractive to print the multi component functional article. Based on the employed processes the design module preferably constrains or otherwise provides guidelines for proper integration of the design modules. For instance the functional article may have metal based materials which require a sintering process to achieve conductivity. Such processes may reach temperatures incompatible with other materials and require a particular order of deposition curing and dwell and cessation period for heat dissipation. Similarly the design modules may have sacrificial areas removable support structures or implement subtractive processes.

The design module also preferably controls feedback mechanisms. The additive manufacturing equipment may have thermistors flow sensors particle counter machine vision and other such feedback mechanisms. The design module can control for instance a camera based machine vision systems which monitors deposition and manufacture of the article.

The design module must interface with available additive manufacturing equipment to determine compatibility and printing viability. For instance the design module can interface with a local 3D printer or a contract manufacturer. The design module can use IP based protocols to control delivery access authentication and encryption of the data transmitted to network and offsite additive manufacturing equipment.

The design module can further include modeling files . The modeling files are desirable when the design module embodies a component or subsystem that can used in a more complex design by another designer. The modeling files are preferably in a form compatible for use in commercially available design and engineering software. The modeling files can include optimization algorithms. Additionally the modeling files can include different configurations of the embodied multi component functional design.

For instance 3 dimensional objects can be represented graphically in computer aided drafting software such as Solidworks available from Dassault Systemes of Waltham Mass. Such software packages provide simulation and analysis of structural forces mechanical motion fluid flow and heat transfer. Another such multiphysics software platform that provides simulation and analysis of mechanical fluid electrical optical and chemical phenomena is provided by COMSOL Inc. of Burlington Mass. Optical systems are generally modeled in software such as ZEMAX from Zemax LLC in Redmond Wash. Code V from Synopsys in Mountain View Calif. and OSLO from Lambda Research Corp. of Littleton Mass. Advanced electronics can be modeled using SPICE software to simulate and verify designed circuitry. For advanced integrated circuitry design within the multi material functional article software from a variety of suppliers such as Cadence Design Systems Tanner EDA Silvaco Inc. Synopsys Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corp.

The design module can include optimization algorithms. The optimization algorithms can be based on the user requirement and constrained by the available additive manufacturing equipment available. By way of example the design module can have optimization algorithms to optimize the aforementioned optical element. For instance if a focusing optic is desirable the optimization algorithm can provide solutions based on desired performance such as focal length diameter shape thickness and wavelength range while taking into aforementioned process constraints. For such designs additive manufacturing processes are particularly well suited to manufacture gradient refractive index optics. See U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 599 731 which generally describes inkjet printing gradient refractive index GRIN optics and in particular describes achromatic GRIN optic design commonly owned by the assignee of the present invention and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Complementing or in addition to optimization algorithms the design module can further include different configurations. For example the aforementioned design module that embodies the optical switch may have a plurality of configurations allowing the user to choose between different waveguide sizes input and output locations and operating parameters such as operating voltage. Likewise a design module that embodies a resistor or capacitor may have different deposition techniques and spatial configurations which allow for different sizes volumes and respective resistance or capacitance values. In turn the design modules which incorporate the design modules of other can have multiple configurations based on the available configurations of the incorporated design modules. For instance a design module of electronic amplifier design may incorporate a plurality of different value resistors all of which are configurations of a single resistor design module.

The modeling files preferably have parametric based models features which respond to related design module input and outputs. For instance an amplifier design module may utilize a specific wire size and an accompanying wire design module will preferably adjust size for instance diameter when mated to the amplifier. Likewise a design module of a waveguide preferably has parametrically adjustment based on coupling to other optical waveguides or wavelengths used.

Licensing data can be encoded within the design module to allow restitution to the designer or assignee of the design module. Related legal info can be included to provide legal notice whether for contractual purposes or intellectual property protection. In order to enforce license rights and other legal obligations the design module can also include IP protocols and encryption.

Licensing fees or other obligations can be collected at various stages in the process and in various fee structures. Fees can be collected during the process based access to the design module access to the modeling files or on a per print basis and hybrid combinations thereof. For instance fees can be charged to obtain access to the individual design modules. Alternatively the design modules can be aggregated in groups and access to the group allowed after fee payment. If access to the design module is open the fees can be charged upon on a per print basis. Further if the user is a designer who intends to create yet another design module integration can be limited based on obligation to pay a sub license fee.

Fee structures can be based on temporal access user status configuration or print volume and other such arrangements. For instance a temporal based structure such as a monthly membership can provide a user the ability to access integrate or print a single or group of the licensed design modules. Fees can vary based on the configuration. For example if a design module has a configuration with better performance or design sophistication the license fee can be structured accordingly. License fees based on a per print basis can be structured with volume pricing.

The design modules which are intended for integration other of the design modules preferably have license agreements that incentivize integration. For instance design modules that can be used numerous times within another the design modules preferably have license arrangements based on volume percent usage or percent of the gross revenue with.

Depending on the license fee structure access to the design modules can be granted by delivery of physical or preferably electronic deliverable encryption keys. Likewise the design modules can be delivered in physically encoded mediums but are preferably delivered electronically after payment of any required fees. Alternatively encryption keys can be given and access or ability to print granted based on purchase of printable material. The encryption keys can be limited to per print activations requiring persistent online authentication and other such digitally controlled limitations.

The design modules can also include legal information and protocols such as digital rights management software to ensure enforcement and protection of intellectual property rights. For instance design modules can include trademark designs copyright material and patented apparatus and methods. The design module can require designs integrating the design modules to be appropriately labeled and marked. For instance if the functional article incorporates a design module that embodies a patented apparatus or article the design module can require the patent number to be printed on the exterior of the functional article. Likewise if the functional design embodied in the design module contains trademarks artwork trade dress or other such protectable matter the design module can require proper implementation and marking or otherwise prevent manufacture.

Additionally user can create new design module based on the multi component functional article design created by integrating design modules A B and C. The user can then upload new design file to database preferably subject to review by the database manager allowing other users to access the design module in database . Additional users then can manufacture the embodied multi component functional article.

Design module exemplifies the multi component functional article wherein a plurality of design modules are used. Design module can be printed as is or can be used in more complex designs. For instance the optical switch has wire interfaces A and B to modulate the electro optic region and has waveguide input port and waveguide exit port . Other such electro optic and high order nonlinear optical elements that are or can be combined to create the multiple component functional articles are described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 14 278 164 and 14 293 574 both commonly owned by the assignee of the present invention and hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

From the description of the present invention provided herein one skilled in the art can implement the method of manufacture in accordance with the present invention. While the present invention has been described in terms of particular examples others can be implemented without departing from the invention. In summary the present invention is described above in terms of particular embodiments. The invention however is not limited to the embodiments described and depicted herein. Rather the invention is limited only by the claims appended hereto.

