---

title: Golf club
abstract: A golf club head includes a golf club body, the golf club body including a toe portion and a heel portion, the golf club body including a hosel connected to the heel portion, the golf club body defining an external surface area, thereby each portion of the golf club body including a contributing external surface area to the total external surface area of the golf club body; a face connected to a front of the golf club body; a surface covering applied to at least 50% of the sole.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09630068&OS=09630068&RS=09630068
owner: TAYLOR MADE GOLF COMPANY, INC.
number: 09630068
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150720
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 046 013 which was filed on Sep. 4 2014 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application references Application for U.S. Patent bearing Ser. No. 13 839 727 entitled GOLF CLUB WITH COEFFICIENT OF RESTITUTION FEATURE filed Mar. 15 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and with specific reference to discussion of coefficient of restitution features. This application also references Application for U.S. Patent bearing Ser. No. 14 457 883 entitled GOLF CLUB filed Aug. 12 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and with specific reference to discussion of boundary condition features.

This disclosure relates to manufacture and design of golf club heads. More specifically this disclosure relates to golf club head surface coverings

A golf club head includes a golf club body the golf club body including a toe portion and a heel portion the golf club body including a hosel connected to the heel portion the golf club body defining an external surface area thereby each portion of the golf club body including a contributing external surface area to the total external surface area of the golf club body a face connected to a front of the golf club body a surface covering applied to at least 50 of the sole.

Since the inception of metal wood golf club heads golf clubs have included surface coverings such as paint covering crown portions of the golf club head. For many clubs cosmetics on the crown were as far as reasonably possible. Although some cosmetic features were includable on the sole of the golf club head these generally were things that could not be destroyed through normal use such as engraving embossing or recessing features. Additionally the sole of the golf club head is often used to influence the turf interaction of the golf club head and as such cosmetic features on the sole often took a back seat to playability of the golf club.

As technology progressed more and more features were included on golf club heads not only for playability but also for visual distinction. For example the TaylorMade R11 driver included a white painted golf club head. The R11 driver s white paint allowed players to align the driver to its target more effectively than prior club heads but the white paint also allowed the TaylorMade R11 driver to be visually distinguishable from other clubs. The result was a driver that was better performing commercially distinguishable and to some golfers more aesthetically pleasing.

Often times to provide distinction in the marketplace golf club heads include visual features to distinguish certain clubs over the competition. As such adding new and interesting cosmetics in new and interesting places has become a valuable tool in garnering interest for golf club heads.

However certain cosmetics can provide a camouflage function as well. In casting titanium and steel it is common to experience porosities in the castings. Porosities can occur through a variety of errors such as gas dissolution pouring defects temperature gradients compounding defects material impurities and more. Once a part is produced however it can be costly to turn the part into scrap.

With golf club heads this becomes a cosmetic issue. Porosities on the crown of the golf club head are visible to the player at address if they are not covered. It is possible to weld over these porosities but such a process can create increased labor costs and cycle times. One process allows the porosities to be filled with a putty or resin material before coating with paint or applying another surface covering. Using a filler material as described provides a smooth paint surface over the porosity with lower labor costs and lower cycle times. However labor still must be utilized and the process is not applicable for areas on the sole of the golf club head for many models because many models of golf club heads include soles with large portions of metal exposed. If a porosity occurs along the sole of the golf club head it will be ineffective to use putty or resin material if the sole is not covered with paint. Unless discussed otherwise one of skill in the art would understand that references to paint and to decal are intended to be interchangeable when referring to areas of coverage in the current disclosure. In various embodiments the area into which paint may be placed is coincident with the area into which a decal may be placed. For some portions of the disclosure one of skill in the art would understand the need to differentiate between decals and paint for example when discussing texturing applications certain textures may be unattainable with paint. As such all surface coverings including decals and paint should be included as coincident within the disclosure.

Often times manufacturers of golf club heads leave the sole of the golf club head bare because of turf interaction. In general golf clubs are meant to be struck with the sole portion in close proximity to the ground. Because of the speed of the usual golf club swing most paints and coverings are not of sufficient strength to remain durable and withstand the impact of the ground repeatedly at very high speed. As such rather than attempt to paint an entire golf club sole most club makers have opted to leave portions of the sole raw or covered in clear coat only to avoid the potential problems of scratched chipped and dulled paint on the sole. However as previously mentioned porosities can occur in the bare locations on the sole. In such locations welding steps may be necessary to hide the porosities.

The golf club heads of the current disclosure provide a novel solution to these problems for at least two reasons. First cosmetically they allow greater portions of the sole to be covered with cosmetics than in many prior designs creating a larger canvas on which club designers can create visually distinctive products as well as other cosmetic options. Second paint decals and other surface coverings may be used to cover porosities without welding reducing cycle times and labor costs. In another aspect of the current disclosure certain types of coverings can provide surface texture to the golf club head providing a visual camouflage of the porosities. As such with certain aspects of the current disclosure repair of any type to the porosities may be unnecessary thereby further reducing labor costs and cycle times. The current disclosure includes golf club heads and methods systems and various apparatus to address the issues described above.

For reference within this disclosure reference to a fairway wood type golf club head means any wood type golf club head intended to be used with or without a tee. For reference driver type golf club head means any wood type golf club head intended to be used primarily with a tee. In general fairway wood type golf club heads usually have lofts of greater than 14 degrees. In general driver type golf club heads have lofts of 14 degrees or less and more usually 12 degrees or less. In general fairway wood type golf club heads have a length from leading edge to trailing edge of 73 97 mm. Various definitions distinguish a fairway wood type golf club head form a hybrid type golf club head which tends to resemble a fairway wood type golf club head but be of smaller length from leading edge to trailing edge. In general hybrid type golf club heads are 38 73 mm in length from leading edge to trailing edge. Hybrid type golf club heads may also be distinguished from fairway wood type golf club heads by weight by lie angle by volume and or by shaft length. Fairway wood type golf club heads of the current disclosure preferably are 16 degrees of loft. In various embodiments fairway wood type golf club heads of the current disclosure may be from 15 19.5 degrees. In various embodiments fairway wood type golf club heads of the current disclosure may be from 13 17 degrees. In various embodiments fairway wood type golf club heads of the current disclosure may be from 13 19.5 degrees. In various embodiments fairway wood type golf club heads of the current disclosure may be from 13 26 degrees. Additionally most fairway wood type golf club heads are between 150 cc and 250 cc in volume as measured according to methods of the USGA. See U.S.G.A. Procedure for Measuring the Club Head Size of Wood Clubs Revision 1.0.0 Nov. 21 2003 for the methodology to measure the volume of a wood type golf club head. Exemplary fairway wood type golf club heads of the current disclosure may be between 180 cc and 240 cc. In various embodiments fairway wood type golf club heads of the current disclosure are between 200 cc and 220 cc. Driver type golf club heads of the current disclosure preferably are 12 degrees or less of loft in various embodiments. Driver type golf club heads of the current disclosure may be 10.5 degrees or less in various embodiments. Driver type golf club heads of the current disclosure may be between 9 degrees and 14 degrees of loft in various embodiments. In various embodiments driver type golf club heads may be as much as 16 degrees of loft. Additionally most driver type golf club heads are over 375 cc in volume. Exemplary driver type golf club heads of the current disclosure may be over 425 cc in volume. In some embodiments driver type golf club heads of the current disclosure are between 440 cc and 460 cc in volume.

As seen with reference to a golf club head is shown. The golf club head includes a face a crown a sole a skirt also referred to as a ribbon a hosel located proximate a heel a toe a leading edge and a trailing edge . The golf club head includes a gusset connecting the hosel to the crown proximate the heel in the current embodiment. For the purposes of this disclosure the leading edge is defined by a curve the curve being defined by a series of forwardmost points each forwardmost point being defined as the point on the golf club head that is most forward as measured parallel to the y axis for any cross section taken parallel to the plane formed by the y axis and the z axis . The face may include grooves or score lines in various embodiments. In various embodiments the leading edge may also be the edge at which the curvature of the particular section of the golf club head departs substantially from the roll and bulge radii.

A three dimensional reference coordinate system is shown. An origin of the coordinate system is located at the geometric center of the face CF of the golf club head . See U.S.G.A. Procedure for Measuring the Flexibility of a Golf Clubhead Revision 2.0 Mar. 25 2005 for the methodology to measure the geometric center of the striking face of a golf club. The coordinate system includes a z axis a y axis and an x axis . Each axis is orthogonal to each other axis .

The x axis is parallel to a ground plane GP onto which the golf club head may be properly soled arranged so that the sole is in contact with the GP. The y axis is also parallel to the GP and is orthogonal to the x axis . The z axis is orthogonal to the x axis the y axis and the GP. The golf club head includes a shaft axis SA defined along an axis of the hosel . When assembled as a golf club the golf club head is connected to a golf club shaft not shown . Typically the golf club shaft is inserted into a shaft bore defined in the hosel . As such the arrangement of the SA with respect to the golf club head can define how the golf club head is used. The SA is aligned at an angle with respect to the GP. The angle is known in the art as the lie angle LA of the golf club head . A ground plane intersection point GPIP of the SA and the GP is shown for reference. In various embodiments the GPIP may be used a point of reference from which features of the golf club head may be measured or referenced. The SA is located away from the origin such that the SA does not directly intersect the origin or any of the axes in the current embodiment. In various embodiments the SA may be arranged to intersect at least one axis and or the origin . A z axis ground plane intersection point can be seen as the point that the z axis intersects the GP. The golf club head includes a boundary condition feature defined in the sole of the golf club head . Boundary condition features are described in more detail with reference to Application for U.S. Patent bearing Ser. No. 13 839 727 entitled GOLF CLUB WITH COEFFICIENT OF RESTITUTION FEATURE filed Mar. 15 2013 and Application for U.S. Patent bearing Ser. No. 14 457 883 entitled GOLF CLUB filed Aug. 12 2014 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Golf club heads of the current disclosure provide a solution to the problems cited previously in this disclosure by limiting sole wear and interaction to a reliably small location. The disclosure also provides a procedure allowing for design of a golf club head to have maximum sole coverage of paint decals and or other surface coverings thereby reducing input labor costs and enhancing the cosmetic appeal of the golf club head.

Golf club heads such as golf club head are designed to provide minimum interaction of the sole with the turf. Many golf clubs are not designed for paint below their ribbon areas. As such many golf clubs leave the soles entirely bare save for some paint on the ribbon or skirt areas. In addition many golf club heads have recessed areas located in soles providing grooves or areas in which to catch paint and protect it from turf interaction.

However as has been unexpectedly discovered the golf club head is designed for maximum sole coverage of surface covering by creating minimum turf interaction. These two things are correlated because regions of the sole in closest proximity to the ground are the ones that tend to make contact the most.

In general various regions of the golf club head are within a distance of the GP. Determining a distance at which the sole minimizes turf interaction can aid in designing a golf club head for maximum cosmetic sole coverage. In various embodiments when the distance is sufficiently large a golf club designer can predict where the sole will experience interaction with the ground.

As seen with reference to the golf club head is shown including a contour plot showing the distance of the surface of the golf club head above the GP falls at specific ranges. Areas within a particular region are closer to the GP than the distance and areas outside the region are further from the GP than the distance . All areas within a first region of the contour plot are within 0.5 mm of the GP when the golf club head is properly soled as seen in . All areas within a second region of the contour plot are within 1.0 mm of the GP when the golf club head is properly soled. All areas within a region are within 1.5 mm of the GP. All areas within region are within 2.0 mm of the GP. All areas within region are within 2.5 mm of the GP. All areas within region are within 3.0 mm of the GP. All areas within region are within 3.5 mm of the GP. All areas within region are within 4.0 mm of the GP. All areas within region are within 4.5 mm of the GP.

The LA of the golf club head is typically around 60 for a driver type golf club head. However many golfers use golf clubs in orientations other than 60 . In some cases a golfer may grip the club in an upright position while other golfers may grip the club in a flat position. For example some golfers may use the club at 65 while others may use the club at 55 . As such it is important to allow for variations in the golfer s holding position when considering the portion of the sole that should be covered.

In various embodiments the golf club head may be painted or decaled to various areas with various confidence levels as to the ability to avoid wear in such regions. In general areas of the sole that are outside of the region within 1.0 mm of the GP are sufficiently removed from the GP for a surface covering such as paint or decal. In various embodiments areas outside of the region within 1.5 mm of the GP are sufficiently removed from the GP for a surface covering such as paint or decal. In various embodiments areas outside of the region within 2.0 mm of the GP are sufficiently removed from the GP for a surface covering such as paint or decal.

A golf club designer may choose various regions outside of which the golf club head would experience turf interaction. For example in some embodiments areas outside of 1.0 mm may experience sufficiently small turf interaction to allow coverage for all areas outside of 1.0 mm. In another example it may be found that areas inside 1.5 mm experience too much turf interaction to allow paint or decal coverage.

As seen with reference to an analysis is performed on the golf club head to determine contact points of the sole with the GP along a variety of lie angles. As seen with reference to the golf club head is shown soled at an upright most lie angle . For testing the upright most lie angle is about 67 . As seen with reference to the golf club head is seen soled at an intermediate lie angle which is about 56 . As seen with reference to the golf club head is seen soled at a flattest lie angle which is about 27 in the current embodiment. For sole contact testing the LA is swept from the flattest lie angle to the upright most lie angle in 0.4 increments. For each LA the contact points of the sole are mapped. The result of the LA sweep is seen with reference to .

As seen in the contact area includes a heelward portion a central portion and a toeward portion . The heelward portion indicates the contact points of the sole with the GP when the golf club head is soled at a lie angle proximate the flattest lie angle . The toeward portion indicates the contact points of the sole with the GP when the golf club head is soled at a lie angle proximate the upright most lie angle . As can be seen the heelward portion and the toward portion include much smaller contact areas than the central portion .

As can be seen with reference to the sole includes various concavities . The concavities include the BCF . The term concavity as used herein denotes any part of the sole that is removed from a surface of the sole sufficiently that it does not experience significant turf interaction. The concavities provide cosmetic areas that are not subject to turf interaction and therefore paint and decals may be placed within these areas without fear of wear. In general the concavities are areas that include interior surfaces that are removed from the surface by at least 0.5 mm. In the current embodiment the concavities include interior surfaces that are removed from the surface proximate the concavities by about 1.0 mm respectively. In various embodiments various offsets may be used and would be understood by one of skill in the art. In the current embodiment the BCF defines a concavity that does not include an interior surface and the BCF is filled with a material. As such the filler material may withstand turf interaction or it may be sufficiently recessed from the surface that turf interaction is not considered for its analysis.

The bottom view of are of the golf club head properly soled in accord with that is having the score line being about 0 1.5 relative to the GP. The area viewed becomes the area of the sole and represents a 100 area of the sole from which percentage surface covering can be determined.

As seen with reference to the contour plot is overlaid onto the contact area . As can be seen contact area includes large regions of contact within the region being within 1.5 mm of the GP. At least 60 of the contact area falls within the region . In various embodiments at least 70 of the contact area falls within the region . In various embodiments at least 80 of the contact area falls within the region . In various embodiments the region may be utilized to determine the relationship. In various embodiments the region may be utilized to determine the relationship.

In various relationships areas further than 1.5 inches from the leading edge should not be considered for analysis to determine whether paint coverage is viable. In the current embodiment areas further than 2.0 inches fall outside of the region within 1.0 mm of the GP. As such in various embodiments areas within 2.0 inches of the leading edge may be subject to greater scrutiny than areas outside of 2.0 inches from the leading edge . For example in the current embodiment paint and decals should not be included within the region within 1.5 mm of the GP for the area that is 2.0 inches from the leading edge for areas greater than 2.0 inches from the leading edge the region within 0.5 mm of the GP is an appropriate region within which no surface covering should be placed and areas outside the region are sufficiently removed from the GP that wear should not be expected.

By following the recommendations above it becomes possible to provide a surface covering over a relatively large percentage of the surface of the sole excluding concavities . In various embodiments the surface covering may cover over 50 of the surface of the sole as projected in excluding concavities . In various embodiments over 60 coverage is achievable. In various embodiments over 70 coverage is achievable. In various embodiments over 80 coverage is achievable. In the current embodiment over 90 paint coverage is achievable.

One should note that conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more particular embodiments or that one or more particular embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the present disclosure. Any process descriptions or blocks in flow diagrams should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included in which functions may not be included or executed at all may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those reasonably skilled in the art of the present disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the present disclosure. Further the scope of the present disclosure is intended to cover any and all combinations and sub combinations of all elements features and aspects discussed above. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the present disclosure and all possible claims to individual aspects or combinations of elements or steps are intended to be supported by the present disclosure.

