---

title: Methods and systems for providing information relating to an event
abstract: An organizer may send information relating to an event to participants via text messaging without having participants' texting numbers. Particularly, organizer may be associated with a texting number. Organizer sets event's start/end times, and provides email addresses for event invitees. Email requests invitees' texting numbers to participate in event. Texting numbers are stored, and encrypted respectively as identifiers. Organizer's message for participants is sent as text message to participants' texting numbers between event's start/end, and may be sent as if the message originated from organizer's texting number. When event ends, participants' texting numbers are deleted unless a participant participates in organizer's later ending event. In response to invitation to organizer's later event, a received participant's texting number may be encrypted as later identifier, and compared with identifier from earlier event. If a match, organizer's text message sent to participant during prior event is included in organizer's or participant's conversational history.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590955&OS=09590955&RS=09590955
owner: THE ROCKET SCIENCE GROUP LLC
number: 09590955
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150914
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 078 295 filed Nov. 12 2013 which claims priority to the provisional applications filed respectively in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Nov. 9 2012 assigned Ser. No. 61 724 894 entitled Methods and Systems for Providing Information Relating to an Event and on Mar. 15 2013 assigned Ser. No. 61 799 580 also entitled Methods and Systems for Providing Information Relating to an Event. Both provisional applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to communications and more particularly relates to disseminating information relevant to participants and or their activities in a timely and efficient manner. Even more particularly the invention relates to disseminating that information via text message from the originator or author of the substance of the message to a participant without the originator learning the texting number of the participant.

Organizing a function especially on a large scale is challenging. Among the challenges an organizer may face is the inability to communicate timely and efficiently with participants once invitations have been issued or the event has been announced. For example the time or venue of a function may not be finalized at the time invitations are sent. Another example is that there may be unforeseen changes or last minute corrections to important event details such as the function s location or start time.

If the organizer has the mobile number or other numbers of the guests the organizer may call to inform them of the changes. The organizer may have the correct numbers but if the calls are not answered or certain participants do not review voicemail messages then those participants will not receive the change information. Moreover it may be a very big and time consuming task to contact participants whether by mobile unit or telephone especially if the number of expected guests or participants is large. Even if the task is undertaken the change information may not reach the participants in time given the nature of the communication medium.

Another problem that limits calling as a method for communicating last minute changes is that many participants want to keep their communication numbers private or at least limited to a small circle. These participants are reluctant to pass on telephone numbers and especially mobile numbers. For functions other than those that are family or friend oriented and especially for larger business type functions the organizer may not be able to collect mobile number information from potential participants. Their concerns may include the worry that the organizer would pass on the mobile numbers to third parties. These third parties may make use of such mobile numbers in ways considered undesirable participants such as solicitation calls robo calls etc.

Another concern about giving away a mobile number is the potential cost of that action. Calls by an organizer and third parties may result in the owner of the account associated with that mobile number being charged for the calls. A person on a budget or who otherwise desires to minimize communication charges may not want to give up his or her mobile number to an organizer at all or at least not without assurance that such action will not result in additional charges to his or her mobile account.

The problem faced by an organizer in collecting mobile or telephone numbers is exacerbated when the text message number is the same as the participant s mobile number. Many people reserve text messaging only to family close friends and or business or work colleagues. The nature of text messaging is among the reasons for keeping such numbers private. The participant of a text message typically considers review of such a message a high priority. The text message may report an emergency such as the sudden illness of a child at school a friend s accident or the urgent need to immediately report to work. To limit the receipt of text messages to the most urgent circumstances the participants or invitees to a function may be very very reluctant to submit their texting numbers to the organizer and the possible further undesired dissemination of that number to third parties.

Even those participants who do not treat the receipt of a text message with urgency do not desire generally to have their text message mailbox crammed full of spam. Another concern in revealing a texting number is that such revelation may lead to text messages that are scams and whose distribution is referred to as smishing of phishing via text message . Both participants who severely restrict texting to family and friends and participants who use texting more widely certainly do not appreciate the extra expense texting from third parties may cause. Nobody likes to pay for spam.

Referring to other methods of communication the organizer may use electronic mail email to communicate change information. The organizer may relatively quickly disseminate the change information to participants via email but only if the organizer has such addresses. Even so the organizer may not have enough time to send all of the emails or the emails may not be viewed on a timely basis. Participants may not have access to or may not choose to access their email accounts close in time to the start of the function. For example participants may be driving on their way to the function and without email access. Without accessing their email accounts the participants will not receive the information about the changes.

Instead of email an organizer may use a micro blogging service such as Twitter to communicate changes to a function. Twitter users may send and receive text based messages of up to 140 characters. Each such message is known as a Tweet . The organizer of a function with last minute changes may send a Tweet with change information to participants.

Tweeting about changes to a function like calling participants or sending them emails is problematic. The use of Twitter shares the same type of problems posed by calling or emailing participants such as being unable to reach participants in a timely manner and the participants having to timely check their Twitter accounts in order to receive the information.

Twitter also poses its own set of problems for the organizer of a function and its participants or invitees. For an organizer he or she has to have thought ahead to obtain the Twitter name of each participant or the organizer will be faced with a big task in finding such names. Typically it is unusual for an organizer to have that information for functions that are not family or friend oriented. The organizer may be able to search for Twitter names by using the actual names of the participants or invitees but that search expands the task of communicating the changes to a degree that the Twitter search communication may not be worth the effort. Also there may be Twitter users with names common or very close to the names of the participants or invitees. Whether the organizer has the Twitter names or uses the actual names of the guests the organizer faces a big task in tweeting out the change information especially if there are a lot of participants and invitees.

Another problem for the organizer in the use of Twitter to send out change information is that a Tweet is limited to 140 characters. That may not be enough for an organizer to clearly communicate the details of the changes in function information.

In some cases the organizer may not want to use Twitter because the problems its use may generate. Twitter messages are public. That may be a big problem if the organizer does not want people who have not been invited to the function to see the change information. For example a Tweet about changes to a celebrity wedding may result in attendance by people who have not been invited.

Further making the use of Twitter problematic is the way its use may be viewed by participants or invitees to the function. To receive the change information via Tweet a participant has to be a user of Twitter . Participants or invitees to a function may not want to join Twitter just to receive change information. Even if a participant uses Twitter and regularly checks his or her tweets he or she may not be a Twitter follower of the particular function or the organizer. In that case the participant would not receive the organizer s Tweet with the change information.

Various privacy issues also may concern participants in an organizer s use of Twitter for communication. One type of privacy concern is referred to herein as activity privacy . A participant or invitee to a function may not want others to know of his or her participation. For example an employee of Company A may not want his or her superiors at Company A to know that the employee plans to attend a recruiting a function sponsored by Company B. As another example an invitee to a stag party or bachelorette party might not want those friends and family members who condemn scorn or would make fun of such functions to learn of the invitee s participation. If the organizer uses Twitter to communicate with participants a particular participant s attendance and or other information may become known to those he or she does not want to know the information.

Another kind of privacy concern that a participant may have relating to an organizer s use of Twitter is referred to herein as identity privacy . Some participants or invitees to a function may be concerned about personal information such as full name address birth date account numbers and personal identification numbers becoming known through third parties access to Twitter messages. Twitter acknowledges that it collects personal information about its users and shares such personal information with third parties. A participant may be annoyed or even outraged at the organizer for making such personal information vulnerable via Twitter .

Of the types of communications discussed above for communicating last minute change information to a participant a text message may be optimal but for the risks associated with revealing the participant s texting number to the organizer. As stated those risks may include the further dissemination of the texting number to unauthorized or unknown third parties. Such third parties may use the texting number to send the participant frivolous messages obscene messages unwanted sales and subscription pitches and or messages that may expose the participant to scams. Moreover such unwanted messages may increase the participant s telecommunications costs. Thus there is a need for a way for the participant to receive updates on last minute changes to functions and other late breaking information without having to reveal his or her texting number.

The problems of an organizer of a function in communicating last minute changes to participants have been used as an example. Others share these problems in many different circumstances especially where such last minute communications may be vital. For example a soccer team manager may need to quickly distribute information about cancellation of a game. A surprise birthday planner may desire to keep details about a surprise party secret until the very last minute and needs a way to communicate such details to invitees. An employer may need to let employees know of a last minute staffing schedule change. An airline may need to communicate a change in gate for arrival or departure of a particular flight. Many other examples may be provided.

In sum there is a need for a way to disseminate information especially last minute information via text message from the originator of the substance of the message to a participant without the originator learning the texting number of the participant.

Generally stated the inventions relate to disseminating information via text message from the author of the message to all of the participants in an event of the author without the author learning the texting numbers of the participants. Embodiments of the invention are particularly suited to providing information from an event organizer in a temporarily urgent instant communications situation. The inventions are described herein with references to examples and embodiments. The inventions however are not to be limited to the particular examples provided.

Advantageously embodiments of the inventions provide information such as last minute changes to an event in a way so that the participants are likely to receive the information in a timely fashion and without the author of the information gaining access or knowledge of the respective texting numbers of the participants.

An exemplary embodiment of the inventions is referred to as the GATHER service. It may be characterized as an SMS short message service alert system that allows an event organizer to keep his her attendees updated about and during an event. The event organizer may download an app application software to his her mobile device to set up and run the GATHER service. Advantageously participants do not have to download the GATHER app to participate but may view the messages via their respective texting programs.

An event organizer may set up and run an event through such services as Eventbrite or Brown Paper Tickets . As part of such services the event organizer may ask invitees whether they would like to receive SMS updates about the organizer s event via the GATHER service. Thus the GATHER service is not an event administration application or an RSVP tool. Rather the GATHER service keeps participants to an event updated about information related to the event. The GATHER service fills the hole left open by event planning applications. The GATHER service allows an organizer of an event to provide participants with information while the event is in progress.

Information about the Eventbrite service may be found at www.eventbrite.com as of Oct. 12 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference or obtained from Eventbrite 651 Brannan Street San Francisco Calif. 94107. Information about the Brown Paper Tickets service may be obtained from www.brownpapertickets.com as of Oct. 13 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference or obtained from Brown paper Tickets 220 Nickerson Seattle Wash. 98109.

Advantageously the GATHER service allows participants to an organizer s event to keep up with late breaking information about the event. A participant however does not have to worry about being bothered with text messages after the event has ended. Once an event has ended the GATHER service no longer sends messages to participants related to the event.

Another big worry that is overcome by the GATHER service is that a participant s text message number is never made known to the event organizer. The participant s texting number is deleted from the records of the GATHER service provider once the last event of an organizer in which the participant participates has ended. So the participant does not have to worry about his her texting number being used otherwise by the event organizer He she never becomes aware of a participant s texting number. An event organizer cannot contact a participant after an event via text message at least for two reasons first as noted the event organizer is never provided with a participant s texting number and second the participant s texting number is deleted once the event has ended with the exception of a participant who participates in a later ending event of the organizer .

As noted a participant s concerns about his her texting number being distributed further than he she intends are overcome with the exemplary GATHER service. Similarly the concerns of an organizer about the privacy of his her texting number are overcome. The GATHER service provides or allows an organizer to choose a GATHER number. Text messages to participants may appear to originate with the organizer s GATHER number. The GATHER number however is not the text messaging number of the event organizer Once an event ends a text message from a participant to the GATHER number is not delivered to the event organizer with the exception that such a text message may be delivered to the organizer if the participant participates in another later ending event of the organizer . Privacy permission and abuse prevention are top priorities in the exemplary embodiment of the GATHER inventions.

An advantage offered by the GATHER service is that it may be shared on social networks. The GATHER service may provide an event organizer with a short URL uniform resource location for sharing on social networks.

The GATHER service may be run by an ESP email service provider . If a customer of the ESP has provided the ESP with a list s of email addresses the customer may not have to duplicate the provision of a list of email addresses for the GATHER service. The customer may designate a previously provided list as the list for invitees to the GATHER service. For example the GATHER service may provide a customer with a short URL to be beamed up so the invitation to the GATHER event is sent to one of the customer s lists previously provided to the ESP in connection with an ESP service.

Alternatively the customer may use a list previously provided to the ESP to make a new list for GATHER services including one or more of the emails on the previously provided list. For example a customer may create a list for his her GATHER service that is a subset of a list previously provided to the ESP or the customer may augment the list previously provided to the ESP with additional email addresses. Moreover the subset list may be created based on common characteristics of email addresses on the ESP list such as geography interests name etc.

Advantageously an organizer s messages about an event may be texted to all of the event s participants at one time via the GATHER service. Participants receive the GATHER messages like all other text messages. A participant in a GATHER event does not have to download the GATHER app to communicate with the event organizer during the time of the event. Thus a participant does not have to have a smart device to participate but only needs to have a device that receives text messages. Moreover an exemplary embodiment of the GATHER service allows an organizer to enable a public archive webpage to allow participants to use a web browser to find a list of all messages or a segment of messages related to the event of the event organizer.

Thus an organizer s sending of a GATHER message to his her group of attendees is as easy as sending a text message to friends. The GATHER service may be made to work with other services to include additional features. For example the GATHER service may be made to work with the Foursquare Venues Platform so that the GATHER service may provide location information in connection with its information distribution. An advantage of an exemplary GATHER embodiment with the Foursquare Venues Platform is that it allows an event organizer to drop a pin of his her current location or nearby places. This feature is great if venue of the event has a last minute change or for sending announcements like Hey folks Mark is having lunch at Mellow Mushroom on 4Ave and you re invited to join him under the tree outside. 

Information about the Foursquare Venues Platform may be found at https developer.foursquare.com as of Oct. 9 2013 . The information at that web address is incorporated herein by reference. The Foursquare Venues Platform also may be referred to as and or include the Foursquare API.

Yet another advantage of the GATHER service is that it allows participants to communicate with the event organizer. For example if an organizer s message is unclear or lacks data a participant may respond by asking for clarification. The participant may communicate by reply text message to the text message received as if from the event organizer. In an embodiment of the GATHER service a participant may reply to an organizer s message via email. The organizer may respond to the participant s reply. This conversation or elements of it between the organizer and participant are selectably presented to the organizer and the participant during the event. If a participant participates in a later event of the organizer the conversational history during the first event may be selectably presented to the organizer and the participant. For the organizer these communications with participants may be organized by participant as conversational histories or discussions.

Near the end of an author s event the author may want to send a message to participants about the approaching deadline. Advantageously the GATHER service may provide the author with a reminder of an approaching deadline so that the author may timely send his her message. Similarly the author may wish to send a thank you to participants in an event just before its conclusion. The GATHER service may be configured to remind the author of the approach of the end of an event so that the author may send the thank you or other message to all participants.

Other features and advantages of the invention may be more clearly understood and appreciated from a review of the following detailed description and by reference to the appended drawings and claims.

Very generally stated to introduce the inventions with an overview the inventions include methods and systems for providing information relating to an event. Advantageously in an exemplary embodiment an event organizer may send real time messages to participants in the event. Typically the messages include information relating to the event. The participants have agreed to receive the information in the form of messages such as text messages to their respective communication devices. The agreement by the participants includes submission of their respective communication numbers i.e. mobile unit or device numbers to a service provider implementing the service for the event organizer. The service provider does not provide the communication numbers to the event organizer at any time. During the event the event organizer and any participant may engage in back and forth communications that may be organized for each as a conversation relating to the event and available for display. At the end of the event the respective communication numbers of the participants are deleted from the records of the service provider.

In an embodiment a participant s communication number may be retained after the end of an event by the service provider in certain circumstances such as the participation by the participant in another later ending event of the event organizer Advantageously in an embodiment a participant event organizer s communications during prior events may be presented as historic conversations between them during a current event in which they are participating.

The inventions are described herein with reference to exemplary embodiments alternative embodiments and also with reference to the attached drawings. The inventions however may be embodied in many different forms from those described or drawn herein may be carried out in a variety of ways and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth in this description and or the drawings. The exemplary embodiments that are described and shown herein are only some of the ways to implement the inventions. Elements and or actions of the inventions may be assembled connected configured and or taken in an order different in whole or in part from the descriptions herein. In some cases actions of the inventions may occur simultaneously.

Referring to for the reader s convenience a particular communication path between one party to another in the exemplary embodiment is marked by arrows having the same number to show continuity of the path but different letters on either side of the communications network . For example arrow indicates that part of the communication path from the event organizer to the service provider that is transmitted by the event organizer to the communications network . Arrow indicates that part of the same communication path but from the communications network to the service provider . The types of communications carried on the paths may vary.

A service provider may make the GATHER service available for enrollment and participation. The service provider may implement part or all of the service. In the example described in association with the service provider is a single entity. In other examples however the elements and or functions of the service provider may be implemented through and or carried out by one or more entities and or distributed among one or more elements. The service provider may also be referred to herein as a multiplexer text message multiplexer or the GATHER service provider.

In this description the terms the GATHER service and the GATHER service provider may be used interchangeably in that the GATHER service provider is carrying out the GATHER service.

The service provider may implement the GATHER service using a computer system such as the one shown in but may implement the service by any other suitable device s including personal computer computer workstation or server for communicating through the communications network with the event organizer with a short messaging service SMS provider not shown or the invitees and participants relating to the GATHER service.

An electronic mail email service provider ESP is an example of a service provider that may offer customers an embodiment of the inventions such as the GATHER service. Of course other types of entities may offer services such as the GATHER service.

As is described in more detail below an ESP may store one or more email address lists on behalf of a customer of its ESP services. In ESP services the ESP stores a customer s email list so that the customer may instruct the ESP to send an email to the email addresses on the list. If the ESP offers a GATHER service the customer may authorize the ESP to use one or more of the email address lists the customer previously provided to the ESP in connection with ESP services but for use in a GATHER service also provided by the ESP. Advantageously the customer does not have to duplicate the provision of email address list s between an ESP and another service provider when the customer s ESP offers a GATHER service.

Additional information about ESPs and ESP services is provided immediately below. This information is provided because there may be crossover between an ESP and its ESP services and the exemplary service provider of a GATHER service.

Generally an ESP is an entity which offers email marketing or bulk email services. A customer or user may make use of the ESP services. To accomplish ESP functionality the ESP may include a send engine s which allows for the distribution of a user s email messages to the user s subscribers or contacts. The email addresses of the respective contacts may be contained in an email address list associated by the ESP with the customer. A customer may provide the ESP with more than one email address list. ESPs also often offer a user one or more ways to segment an email address list into interest groups or categories. The segmentation allows the user to cause an email s to be sent by the ESP to a subset s of contacts on a particular email address list.

As part of its ESP service offered to a user an ESP may provide the user with tracking information showing the status of each email sent to each contact on an email address list. An ESP may provide one or more ESP services with features such as the following 

Generally an ESP may follow policies also known as terms and conditions such as an Acceptable Use Policy which are meant to prevent abuse by users in order to ensure that no spam is sent through the ESP s systems. Following the policies an ESP typically intends to provide the best possible delivery rates with no messages blocked as spam.

Reference now is made to further description of an exemplary embodiment of the inventions and in particular to the manner in which an exemplary embodiment transmits information received from an event organizer to participants in the event. An exemplary embodiment of the invention uses a Short Message Service SMS as a communication tool to send receive and or relay text messages between an event organizer via the GATHER service provider and participants in an event of the event organizer Other communication methods and systems may be used. For example push notifications or messages over any socket connection via any protocol a custom protocol Hypertext Protocol HTTP or the like may be used. A socket connection is defined herein as a unique connection from a computer or Internet connected device to another e.g. a persistent connection from smart phone application such as an iPhone or Android application to a server s of the service provider or a third party s server s .

A person entity or device may desire to make use of the GATHER service offered by the service provider . Hereinafter the term person or persons and personal pronouns such as he she his her they their them are defined to include an entity or entities and device or devices unless otherwise noted. For example a computer may be programmed to assume the person s role. The person may also be referred to herein as an author customer event host event organizer message originator organizer originator or user .

The event organizer may contact the service provider to make use of the service respond to an inquiry from the service provider and or for other reasons. As shown in the event organizer may communicate as indicated by arrow through a communications network as indicated by arrow with the service provider .

The communications network may include telecommunications network s and system s as well as data network s and system s including the Internet also referred to as the World Wide Web or Web . All of the communications relating to the exemplary GATHER service pass through the communications network in a conventional manner known to those skilled in the art. Henceforth the involvement of the communications network in communications is assumed and not specifically pointed out unless otherwise noted.

In the exemplary embodiment the service provider makes a web based Short Message Service SMS application or app for the GATHER service available to potential event organizers. A Web based application refers to any program that may be accessed over a network connection using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or otherwise rather than existing within a device s memory. Web based applications often run through a Web browser. However Web based applications also may be client based where a small part of the program is downloaded to a user s device but processing is done over the Internet on an external server. Advantageously as explained further below the participants in an event of the event organizer do not have to download an app to communicate with the event organizer during the time of the event. Thus a participant does not have to have a smart device as explained below to participate.

The event organizer may download and use the GATHER app with his or her communications or other device to make use of the GATHER service. Typically the event organizer may download the GATHER service app to his or her smart device. Generally a smart device may be capable of voice text and video communication Internet browsing geo locating for search purposes and or may operate to some extent autonomously. Nonetheless the event organizer may make use of any device that allows him or her to communicate with the service provider and participants in connection with an implementation of the invention. In some cases the event organizer may use a particular type of device to enroll in the GATHER service and a different type of device to make use of the service. Hereinafter communications device or device is used to include any device s the event organizer may use to communicate with the service provider in connection with an implementation of the invention unless otherwise noted.

The service provider of course may communicate with the event organizer in any appropriate manner to enroll the event organizer in the GATHER service. Arrows indicating the communication paths from the service provider to the event organizer are not included in for simplicity in explaining the set up of the service for the event organizer .

The event organizer may be provided with a GATHER number for use in connection with his or her GATHER account as shown in . Another embodiment of the service may offer the event organizer two or more numbers from which the event organizer chooses a GATHER number. In the exemplary embodiment the GATHER number may be any communications number that is not a toll number such as an 800 number. The event organizer may activate a number geographically local to the event organizer to one or more of the participants of a group and or to the locale of an event associated with the group. This number may be provisioned via a third party telephony provider or as noted provided directly by the service provider . A third party telecommunications provider may provide the GATHER number or the service provider may provide the number .

The GATHER number may be used as a means of identification for communications between the event organizer via the service provider and participants in the organizer s event as is described in further detail below.

In the exemplary embodiment of the inventions the event organizer is associated only with a single GATHER number even though he she may organize more than one event. The events of an event organizer are distinguished by the respective names given to the events which are in this embodiment also the respective names of the email lists the event organizer provides when setting up an event. Other embodiments may distinguish between or among event organizers in ways other than by a GATHER number or the like. Other embodiments also or alternatively may distinguish between or among events of an event organizer in ways other than by the respective names of the events and or email lists.

The event organizer may carry out other actions to enroll in the GATHER service. For example as shown in the screen shot in the event organizer may select a payment plan for use of the service. The payment plan may be based on the number of text messages sent and or received using the service and or otherwise. Even if the GATHER service is free there may be other information the event organizer may have to supply to implement the service.

As noted the exemplary embodiment of the inventions enrolls an event organizer in the GATHER service prior to providing such service. Other embodiments of the inventions may vary.

Once enrolled the event organizer may use the GATHER app to create one or more events to make use of the GATHER service. Other embodiments of the inventions allow the event organizer to create a GATHER event in other ways such as by email besides use of the GATHER app.

An event in the GATHER service is defined in one aspect by a time period during which the event organizer may be in communication with participants in the event via text messaging. In the exemplary embodiment an event s time period may begin immediately or begin at a selected time in the future up to a year from the time current at the event s creation. An event s time period may end at any point after the event s beginning. In the exemplary embodiment an event may be scheduled to end up to a year from its beginning Other embodiments may have different time limitations.

Each event of an event organizer has its own set of invitees and participants. For example an event organizer may organize an event called MAILCHIMP MEETUP and another event called MAILCHIMP AFTERDARK. The event organizer may designate email list A to be used to invite people to participate in the MAILCHIMP MEETUP event. The event organizer may designate a part of email list A a subset of email addresses to be used to invite people to the MAILCHIMP AFTERDARK event.

Even though each event has its own set of invitees and participants two or more events may have duplicate sets of invitees and or participants. For example an event organizer may use the same list of invitees for the MAILCHIMP MEETUP event and also for the MAILCHIMP AFTERDARK event. The participants however may be different for the two events if one or more invitees differ in accepting rejecting participation.

In an alternative embodiment of the inventions an event organizer may enable a webpage for an event through use of the GATHER service. The webpage may be public and may serve to archive or collect and display all the messages transmitted during the event. The webpage may be identified and located by a uniform resource locator URL or web address provided the service provider. The organizer may supply information for web address for the public archive webpage for the event such as by specifying the name of the event. Advantageously anyone with a web browser may access the public archive webpage for an event and see a list of messages related to the event. A webpage with an event s messages may be useful to those participants and others who want to keep up with an event remotely or who just want to see what s going on from a browser instead of a wireless device.

The public archive webpage feature of the GATHER service may be variously configured and the configuration s may be chosen by the organizer of an event. In some cases the GATHER service may limit the configurations available. One configuration of the public archive webpage feature includes a limitation on access to the webpage. An organizer may to choose to limit access to an event s webpage to only participants in that event. In that case a participant may have to receive a password from the organizer or the GATHER service provider to access the webpage. A participant who desires to view messages in a public archive webpage related to an event may be allowed to set up an account by supplying data such as user name texting number and or email address. One or more elements of the data may be used to identify the conversations across events in which a participant participates. Once identified the conversations may be linked so the participant may view them on a webpage.

Another configuration of the public archive webpage feature is related to the timing of the enablement of the webpage. For example a configuration may allow enablement of a webpage only when the event is first created. Another configuration may allow a webpage to be enabled after the event has been created such as during the event. In that configuration the organizer may be able to specify whether all messages are to be included in the public archive webpage for the event or only those messages transmitted after enablement of the webpage. In another configuration the organizer may enable a webpage after the event has ended. All of the messages transmitted during the event may be included in the webpage or only those messages with one or more specified characteristics such as identity of sender date of transmission etc.

A configuration of the public archive webpage feature may allow the organizer of the event and or others to edit messages that are archived in the webpage. For example an organizer may correct a typo in an archived message.

When setting up an event to be implemented by the GATHER service an event organizer may name the event. For example the reader is referred to which shows the mobile device displaying a screen shot in the GATHER app having a box with the event name MAILCHIMP MEETUP . Typically the name of the event relates to a function with which the event organizer is involved or otherwise associated and to which one or more people may be invited or otherwise associated as participants.

As part of setting up the event to be implemented by the GATHER service the event organizer may provide the service provider with a list of email addresses . The list may include one or more email addresses for the person or people who are to be invited to participate in the GATHER service with respect to the event named by the event organizer . The list of email addresses for an event may be named after that event. Thus the list of email addresses for the event named MAILCHIMP MEETUP also may be named MAILCHIMP MEETUP .

The people to be invited also may be referred to as invitees . An invitee is to be distinguished from a participant . The group of invitees may be more in number than the related group of participants. For example an invitee may decline the invitation to participate in the service. In this example all participants are invitees but not vice versa. As with an event organizer an invitee or participant should not be limited to a person even though the invitees and participants herein are characterized as people such as by the use of personal pronouns when referring to them.

Participants have accepted an invitation from the event organizer to participate in an event using the GATHER Service . Participants also have provided the GATHER service provider with a wireless number to receive and send text messages during the event. A participant may also be referred to herein as recipient or as an attendee .

Also in this example it is assumed that each email address in the list corresponds to a respectively different invitee. In other examples an invitee may be associated with more than one email address in the list such as in the case when an event organizer s email address list includes a home email address for an invitee as well as a business email address for the same invitee.

The list of email addresses provided or designated by the event organizer for a particular event may be stored by the GATHER service provider in association with information on the event organizer so that the list may be used for other event s and or otherwise.

If the event organizer already is a customer of the GATHER service provider and or another service of the GATHER service provider the event organizer may have previously provided a list s of email addresses to the GATHER service provider . For example the event organizer may have previously provided an email address list such as in connection with a previous GATHER event. As another example the event organizer may have previously provided a list in connection with another service run by the GATHER service provider such as an ESP service.

Where the event organizer has previously provided a list s the GATHER service provider may provide the event organizer with the option of choosing from one or more of the lists previously provided by the event organizer . The GATHER app may display the previously provided lists to the event organizer . The event organizer may then choose which list s the service provider is to use with respect to the event named by the event organizer . shows a box on the screen shot of the device . In this example the event organizer has selected the MailChimp List identified as Mobile Developers as the list of emails to be used with respect to the MailChimp MEETUP event.

The event organizer alternatively may instruct the GATHER service provider to create a new list. The new list may include a list s the GATHER service provider already has associated with the event organizer a respective subset s of those list s and or email addresses that the event organizer provides to the GATHER service provider in connection with setting up the event named by the event organizer . The new list of email addresses as constructed by the event organizer may be stored by the GATHER service provider in association with information on the event organizer so that the list may be used for other event s and or otherwise.

Advantageously the GATHER service allows an event organizer to specify one or more subsets of a list of invitees. Specifically the specification of a subset of a list may be carried out by making use of a list segmentation feature such as offered by email marketing services such as MailChimp . An example of a sub set of a list may be a list of email addresses of persons who all live in the same city.

In the exemplary embodiment no matter how the list of email addresses for an event is determined the list for an event may be named after the event. Other embodiments of the inventions may name or title a list of email addresses for an event in other ways.

The GATHER service provider associates the GATHER number selected by or provided to the event organizer for the event with the list s of email addresses as selected and or provided by the event organizer for the event.

Besides the list of emails the event organizer may provide additional information related to the event he or she is setting up to be implemented by the GATHER service. The event organizer may specify when the event is to begin and when it is to end. shows a box on the screen shot of the device where the event organizer may specify the expiration or end date for the event named MAILCHIMP MEETUP. In the exemplary embodiment once an event organizer specifies an end date in the creation of an event the end date is fixed and cannot be changed. Other embodiments may allow the event organizer to change the end date but in those cases the consent of the participants associated with the event may have to be obtained prior to implementing the change in the end date. An alternative embodiment of the inventions may allow an event organizer to leave the end date blank so that the event runs for an indefinite period of time.

The examples provided herein only use a date and not a time on that date for the start and stop times of event. Thus the start and stop times of an event occur when the dates changes i.e. 12 00 am. Other embodiments may allow the event organizer to select the times as well as the dates of the start and or end of an event and or may allow the date change at a different other than 12 00 am.

Besides the start stop times of an event the event organizer may provide the information that may make up the invitation or initial email message to be sent by the GATHER service provider to the group of invitees associated with the event. The substance may be text graphics or a combination thereof as may be accommodated by the respective devices of the organizer and invitees. shows the device with screen shot in the GATHER app including a box labeled Description where the event organizer may enter text including an invitation to the invitees to participate in the MAILCHIMP MEETUP event.

Advantageously an embodiment of the inventions allows an event organizer to initiate invitations to his or her GATHER event in other ways besides the emails to an associated list of email addresses mentioned above. The event organizer may be provided with or have the option of using a short URL as a way to invite people to the GATHER event and to have participants provide their text message numbers. URL shortening is a technique on the World Wide Web Internet in which a Uniform Resource Locator URL may be made substantially shorter in length and still direct to the required page. This may be achieved by using an HTTP Redirect on a domain name that is short which links to the web page that has a long URL.

The event organizer may share the short URL as part of an event invitation on social networks and especially on event or occasion planning and or ticket sale services such as Eventbrite or Brown Paper Tickets . Invitees who are interested in participating in the event may click on the short URL in the invitation to reach a venue where he she may supply his her texting number to the GATHER service. The embodiments of the inventions such as the GATHER service interfacing with third party services may achieve connection through application programming interfaces APIs between and or among the respective services.

Advantageously the event organizer may continue to cause invitations to be sent after the initial invitations have been sent out and or even after the associated event has started. To do so the event organizer may provide the GATHER service provider with the email addresses of the new invitees and or may specify an email list previously provided to the service provider by the event organizer . In an alternate embodiment after the initial invitations have been sent out the event organizer may invite invitees previously invited but who have not responded with a text message number. The GATHER service provider may send the additional invitations. As with the initial group of invitees the event organizer may be notified when a later invitee s choose s to become a participant s.

Once the event has ended in this embodiment the event organizer cannot continue to cause invitations to be sent relating to the event.

Referring to again in this example the GATHER service provider causes an invitation email to be sent as indicated by arrows to each of the email addresses on the list . As shown in the invitees respectively associated with the email addresses may review the email invitation on any appropriate device such as the illustrated mobile device tablet computer and or desk top computer .

If the organizer has enabled a public archive webpage for the event the information about the webpage may be presented in the invitation. A participant may view all or some messages related to the event on the specified webpage by using his or her browser to locate the designated URL for the webpage.

In the screen shot also provides optional information in the text displayed as to when the invitee s texting number is to be deleted from the records of the GATHER service provider for that event. If the invitee participates in only one event associated with the event organizer in the exemplary embodiment the time specified for the deletion is also the end of that event as set up by the event organizer .

If the invitee participates as a participant in more than one event associated with the event organizer in the exemplary embodiment the invitee s texting number is deleted from the records of the GATHER service provider only upon expiration of the latest or last event in time in which the invitee participates according to the exemplary embodiment. Further information on this feature of the exemplary embodiment is provided below. Other embodiments may vary with respect to this feature.

To participate in the exemplary GATHER service for the event the invitee may provide the GATHER service provider his her texting number. In some embodiments of the inventions an invitee may provide more than one texting number in which case text messages from the event organizer are provided to all of the texting number provided by an invitee. In other embodiments of the inventions depending on implementations of the embodiments an invitee may provide other type s of contact information for receipt of messages. The message s sent to the participant via the GATHER service are directed to the participant s texting number in this exemplary embodiment. In other embodiments the message s may be sent via a communications medium appropriate to the contact information provided by the invitee.

The screen shot on the device in includes a box where the invitee may enter his or her texting number. By replying to the invitation email with his or her texting number the participant has subscribed or opted in to the event created by the event organizer .

In contrast to the event organizer an invitee does not have to download the GATHER service app to his or her device. Thus an invitee does not have to have a smart device .

As shown in the invitees may reply to the GATHER service provider and opt into the text messaging service or not. In this example invitee has decided not to join the event. In this embodiment the invitee does not have to communicate to decline. Invitee may simply not respond to the invitation email. Without a texting number from the invitee the GATHER service provider is unable to send a text message to the invitee . The other invitees may communicate their participation in the event by supplying their texting numbers in respective return emails which are transmitted as indicated by arrows to the GATHER service provider .

In another embodiment or as an alternative in the present embodiment the invitation email may include a hyperlink to a web form i.e. a form presented on a website by the GATHER service provider for the GATHER service and that section or portion of the website related to the event of the event organizer . The invitees who choose to participate in the event may fill in text fields on the web form such as texting number email address full name address etc. The web form may provide information about the GATHER service such as the fact that the event organizer and participants will be able to engage in a two way communication via text messaging but that the event organizer will not have access to the participants respective texting numbers. The web form also may point out that the participant s texting number will be deleted from the records of the service provider when the event ends unless the participant participates in more than one event associated with the event organizer . The deletion of the texting number is also referred to herein as expiration of the texting number with respect to the GATHER service at least for that specific event.

A participant who has initially opted into the text messaging service for a particular event may opt out by sending a stop communication to the GATHER service provider . For example the opting out participant may simply reply stop to a text message received about the event of the event organizer .

The GATHER service provider may or may not provide the event organizer with the information about the opt out of a participant.

If the particular event is the only event associated with the event organizer in which the opting out participant is participating the GATHER service provider may remove the texting number of the opting out participant from its records at the time of opt out. The GATHER service provider may remove the texting number even if the particular event has not ended. Opting out is synonymous with unsubscribe as used herein.

Even though the opting out participant s texting number is removed from the records of the service provider the email address of the opting out participant remains in the list of emails associated with the event.

If the opting out participant participates in more than one event associated with the event organizer in the exemplary embodiment the GATHER service provider may remove the participant from all events in which the participant participates relating to the event organizer . For example if the opting out participant sends a STOP message relating to a particular event the participant may be asked whether he she desires to opt out of all events of the event organizer. Alternatively the participant may opt out of all events of an event organizer by texting STOP ALL or something similar to indicate the participant s desire to opt out of all events of the event organizer.

In an alternative embodiment if the opting out participant participates in more than one event associated with the event organizer the GATHER service provider may remove the participant only from the event associated with the STOP message sent by the participant. In other words the participant may be able to opt out of receiving messages about a particular event from an organizer but continue to receive messages about one or more other events of that organizer.

For example assume the GATHER service provider receives a STOP message from a participant. In response the GATHER service provider may send a message to the participant with a numbered and or named list or other identification of events in which the participant participates in association with the event organizer and or otherwise . The participant then may specify which event s by number s and or name s and or otherwise the participant wants to opt out of. As a follow up the GATHER service provider then may remove the participant from the specified event s but not the other event s .

By way of another example assume a participant participates in two events created by the event organizer . One event is named MAILCHIMP MEETUP and the other is named MAILCHIMP AFTER DARK. The participant decides to opt out or unsubscribe from the MAILCHIMP AFTER DARK event. The participant may initiate this opt out by texting the GATHER number of the event organizer with the words STOP . The GATHER service provider sends the opting out participant the names of the two events in which the participant has participated. The opting out participant expresses his or her desire to opt out of MAILCHIMP AFTER DARK by making the appropriate response to the GATHER service provider . For example the opting out participant may text STOP MAILCHIMP AFTER DARK .

Upon receipt of the opt out text from the participant the GATHER service provider in this embodiment removes the texting number of the participant from the list or other identification for MAILCHIMP AFTER DARK event. The participant opting out of the MAILCHIMP AFTER DARK event is not opting out of the MAILCHIMP MEETUP event. The participant continues to be included in the MAILCHIMP MEETUP event. The participant s texting number is not removed from the records of the GATHER service provider at the time of opt out of the MAILCHIMP AFTER DARK event. The participant s texting number is not removed because the participant continues to participate in an event sponsored by the event organizer .

As noted in the example in the previous paragraph the GATHER service provider does not remove the texting number of the opting out participant from its records at the time of the opt out. Per this embodiment for a participant who participates in more than one event associated with the event organizer the service provider removes the texting number of the opting out participant only when the participant has opted out of all events associated with the event organizer or when the last event associated with the event organizer in which the participant participates ends. Opting out or the end in time of the participant s last event with an event organizer halts the conversation opportunities between the two. Of course a participant who has unsubscribed via expiry or choosing to unsubscribe can sign up for a later event with the event organizer if offered and or available and reestablish communication.

In alternate embodiments of the inventions the event organizer may receive information from the GATHER service provider on response s to the email invitations. For example the GATHER service provider may send a push notification to the GATHER app of the event organizer with the email address and or other information relating to a participant each time an invitee agrees to participate. Alternatively the GATHER service provider may periodically send information about the response to the invitations to the event of the event organizer . In addition or as yet another alternative the GATHER service provider may provide the event organizer with information on the response to the event of the event organizer within a predetermined or preselected by the event organizer or by the service provider time in advance of the start of the event. The information may identify the email address of a participant and or the participant s name and or other information if available. In an alternative embodiment an event organizer may choose to receive information on participants or not and may choose what kind of participant information to receive. In no case however is the event organizer ever provided with a participant s texting number.

Generally stated upon receipt of texting numbers from respective participants the inventions keeps track of an event participant s texting number and email address in any appropriate manner so as to carry out the GATHER service. The exemplary embodiment associates the texting number of a participant and other data about the participant in association with the event organizer . If an event organizer has more than one event the participant may be mapped to the event s in which he she is participating in any appropriate manner such as by a many to many relationship to the event s .

Storing Information about a Participant to Find the Participant s Communications with the Event Organizer after the Participant s Texting Number has been Deleted

An advantage of the inventions is that a participant is assured that his her texting number is stored only so long as needed to participate in event s of the event organizer . The inventions may be implemented in an embodiment that deletes a participant s texting number each time an event in which the participant participates ends. The exemplary embodiment differs. In the exemplary embodiment as more fully described below a participant s texting number is deleted from the records of the service provider only when all of the events of an event organizer in which a participant participates have ended.

Advantageously as a result of storing a participant s texting number until all of the participant s events have ended the exemplary embodiment is able to provide the event organizer and the participant with communications from one or more prior events common to both the event organizer and the participant. The communications may be organized for display in a conversational format or otherwise.

To provide the prior communications the exemplary GATHER service goes through a process of storing information about a participant so that the participant s texting number may be deleted at the appropriate time but the participant may be later identified so that the communication s between the participant and the event organizer may be identified and displayed in other later or concurrent event s of the event organizer in which the participant participates. This process of storing information about a participant may be carried out by the exemplary embodiment when the participant agrees to participate in an event. Other embodiments may carry out the same or similar processes at other times prior to deletion of the participant s texting number from the GATHER service.

The following is a description of the process the exemplary embodiment of the invention may provide so that the GATHER service provider may store information about a participant for future reference without the service provider or any other entity storing the texting number of the participant after the last event of the event organizer in which the participant participates has expired. Other embodiments may carry out the process differently.

The process begins with the GATHER service provider s receipt of information from a participant signifying the participant s agreement to participate in an event of the event organizer . The GATHER service provider may receive the participant s agreement in a reply email from the participant to the invitation email sent to the participant by the service provider on behalf of the event organizer inviting the participant to the invention. The information from the participant includes his her email address and texting number.

Upon receipt of the participant s information the GATHER service provider may carry out some preliminary actions prior to the storage of the participant s information. For example the GATHER service provider may check whether the event in which the participant agrees to participate is the first GATHER event of the event organizer . If it is the first event of the event organizer then the GATHER service provider may conclude that the participant is a new participant. All participants of a first GATHER event of an event organizer are new participants. A new participant is a participant about which there is no information in storage in association with an event of an event organizer in the GATHER service. The service provider may proceed with the storage process regarding a new participant s information as explained further below without first checking for a record of the participant associated with the event organizer as also explained below.

An alternative embodiment also allows for skipping the search or check for the record of the participant associated with the event organizer . In this alternative embodiment the participant may provide information that he she is a first time participant in a GATHER event of the event organizer .

The storage process of a participant s information in association with an event organizer is first summarized herein and then explained in further detail. As shorthand herein the described process refers to storage of a participant s information in association with an event organizer . Obviously the participant s information is stored in association with information about the event organizer not the actual person who is the event organizer . Similar shorthand may be used herein with respect to other people or entities and their respective information as will be understood by those skilled in the art.

In sum when a participant agrees to participate in an event the GATHER service provider computes normalized values respectively for the wireless number and email address of the participant hashes each of the normalized values and checks for a match of either hash result. If a match is found of either hash result the GATHER service provider determines that the participant has participated previously or is participating in an event associated with the event organizer . In that case in this embodiment the GATHER service provider may be able to access past communications between the event organizer and the participant. The GATHER service may provide those communications as conversational history between the event organizer and the participant. If no match of either hash result for a participant is found then the GATHER service determines the participant is new and that no conversational history exists between the event organizer and participant. The GATHER service provider then creates a record for the participant and stores it in association with information about the event organizer .

More particularly the GATHER service computes a normalized value for the participant s wireless number. The GATHER service also computes a normalized value for the participant s email address. A normalized value also may be referred to as a least common denominator . For example a wireless number may be normalized by stripping the spaces if any in the number and stripping non numbers such as dashes or periods that may separate the numbers. As another example an email address may be normalized by setting all the letters to lower case removing the symbol or any other non number or non letter.

The service provider carries out a one way hash function with respect to the normalized value for the participant s email address. The service provider stores the result which is referred to herein as the email address identifier . The one way hashing of the email address also may be referred to more generally as the coding of the email address.

In addition the service provider carries out a one way hash function with respect to the normalized value of the participant s texting number and stores the result which is referred to herein as texting number identifier . The one way hashing of the texting number also may be referred to more generally as the coding of the texting number.

For example the service provider may use MD5 Message Digest Algorithm as a one way hash function but other one way hash functions may be used. MD5 may be preferable because it does not take as long to compute and the chance of collision is not high. Collision refers to the circumstance where two inputs may yield the same result in rare cases. The one way hash function used to obtain the email identifier may be the same or be different from the one way hash function used to obtain the texting number identifier.

In some embodiments of the invention a different type of hashing that produces an irreversible output may be used rather than a one way hash. For example the service provider may use bcrypt instead of MD5. Bycrypt is a key derivation function for passwords based on blowfish encryption.

No matter how it is accomplished the point is to create an undecipherable key derived from the wireless number and an undecipherable key derived from the email address of a participant. The two keys are stored. Together they are referred to herein as the record of a participant. Besides the two keys the record of a participant may contain other information or data or not . Storing the two keys or identifiers of a participant allows the GATHER service provider to later look up the participant by using either of the two keys without storing the wireless number of the participant.

The exemplary GATHER service stores messages also referred to herein as communications sent during an event between the event organizer and a participant. The GATHER service stores these messages so that they may be later accessed if the participant participates in another event of the event organizer . The messages from former event s may be presented in a conversational form or history to the event organizer and or the participant. Thus the exemplary embodiment of the GATHER service provides a way to determine whether a participant agreeing to participate in an event of an event organizer is new to the events of the event organizer or has previously participated in events of the event organizer .

The exemplary embodiment provides a process for determining if a participant is new or not by using the participant s information provided or associated with the agreement to participate in the current event of the event organizer. The information used in the process includes the email address and texting number of the participant. The email address and texting number respectively are hashed into an email address identifier and a texting number identifier. See description above. The identifiers are compared to previous identifiers stored by the GATHER service. If a match is found to one of the participant s identifiers then the participant has previously participated in an event of the event organizer . A previous participant may have previous messages to from the event organizer stored by the GATHER service provider. These previous messages may be organized into conversations for presentation to the event organizer and or the participant as part of the communications related to the current event.

An alternative embodiment of the invention may give the event organizer and or the participant an option of whether or not to view such prior communications and one or more options of the manner in which the prior communications may be viewed chronologically reverse chronologically etc. .

An example is now presented to provide additional details regarding an exemplary process according to the invention for determining if a participant is new to events of the event organizer. In this example the participant has provided his her texting number to participate in a first event associated with the event provider . It is the only event in which the participant has ever participated. At the end of the first event the GATHER service provider deletes the participant s texting number from its records.

Later in time in this same example the event organizer includes the participant in an email list for invitation to a second event. The GATHER service provider sends an email invitation to the second event to the participant. The participant agrees to participate in the second event and provides his her texting number. The GATHER service provider runs the participant s email address and his her texting number through the hashing process described above to find the two keys or identifiers of the participant.

The GATHER service looks for a match to either of the two keys of the participant. If a match is found to either texting number identifier or email address identifier the GATHER service provider determines that the participant has previously participated in an event s associated with the event organizer . By finding either matching identifier the GATHER service provider is able to access past communications between the event organizer and the participant. The GATHER service provider then may provide the past communications in the form of a conversation and or otherwise such as a conversational history to the event organizer and or participant as part of the historic conversation between the event organizer and participant.

Other embodiments of the invention may require that both identifiers match before providing past communications to the event organizer and or participant.

In the exemplary embodiment the GATHER service provider may find that one of the identifiers of a participant yields a match but not the other. In that case the GATHER service provider uses the matching identifier to find previous communications between the participant and the event organization if any . The non matching identifier may be ignored.

Alternatively the GATHER service provider may change the non matching identifier to match the new information. For example assume the participant s email address remains the same but the texting number of the participant has changed. The email address identifier for the participant is found but the texting identifier does not match. In that case the email identifier is used to find previous communications if any . The texting identifier is changed so that it corresponds to the new texting number.

If the GATHER service does not find a match to either the email identifier or the texting identifier then the GATHER service determines that the participant has not participated in a previous event associated with the event organizer . No communications between the event organizer and participant are available for inclusion in future conversation displayed to either both the event organizer and participant in this embodiment of the GATHER service. Other embodiments may differ.

GATHER Service Stores Identifiers and Communications Between Event Organizer and Participants but Deletes Participants Texting Numbers

The GATHER service stores the email identifier and the texting number identifier for the participant in association with an event organizer . The email identifier and the texting number of a participant are also referred to herein as the record of a participant. Any communications between the event organizer and participant may be associated with the participant s record.

After the event ends the GATHER service deletes the participant s texting number from the GATHER service provider s records if it is the last event of the event organizer in which the participant is participating . The GATHER service continues to store the participant s record including the identifiers and the association with the communications between the event organizer and the participant. If a participant agrees to participate in a subsequent event of the event organizer the participant s previous communications if any with the event organizer may be found using the participant s record and the communications may be included in a displayed conversation between the event organizer and the participant during the new event as described above.

As the invitees agree to participate in the event the GATHER service provider may provide the event organizer with information on the invitees who have agreed to participate in the texting service during the event. Alternatively the GATHER service provider may provide the event organizer with the information about participants at some designated time or otherwise so that the event organizer is not bombarded with many messages regarding the individual participation of invitees. The information provided to the event originator may include the participants email addresses. The information does not include the texting numbers of the participants.

When a participant subscribes to an event the GATHER service provider may send the participant a welcome message. The event organizer may author the welcome message in whole or in part or not at all. The GATHER service provider may provide the event organizer with the welcome message in whole or part or not. The welcome message is sent as a text message to the participant in this embodiment. Other embodiments may provide alternative or duplicative messages sent as other forms of communication such as email. If the welcome message is sent via text message it will appear to the participant as being received from the texting number selected by or provided to the event organizer for the event. If the event organizer has enabled a public archive webpage to display the list of messages all or some regarding the event the welcome message may provide the URL for the webpage.

Beginning at the start time of the event and continuing through its duration or longer if a participant participates in another of an organizer s events that ends later the event organizer may use the GATHER service to start the process that ultimately may result in a text message being sent to one or more participants in the event. The event organizer may use the app for the GATHER service on the event organizer s device to create and or send the message. The GATHER app may present the event organizer with a template for creating all or part of the message. The template may contain boxes also referred to as windows which the event organizer fills with designated information to complete the message. In the exemplary embodiment the event organizer may cause a text message to be sent at about the same time to all of the participants in an event. In some embodiments the event organizer may be able to send a text message to a particular participant rather than all the participants. For example the event organizer may be able to respond to a participant s message to the event organizer .

In the exemplary embodiment the event organizer identifies the event for the message by name of the event. The exemplary GATHER service may present an event organizer with a list of all of the events the event organizer has set up. In that case the event organizer chooses the event for the message. In some circumstances the event organizer may choose all or more than one of the events for the message. Alternatively the event organizer may have to supply the name of the event s in an appropriate box on the template or otherwise. The GATHER service provider uses the name of the event s to determine the participants to receive the message.

In the exemplary embodiment the event organizer identifies only a single event for the message. Other embodiments may allow the event organizer to identify one or more of his her events. In other words the event organizer may send the same message using the GATHER service to participants in one or more groups of his or hers.

Event Organizer Identifies all Participants a Sub Set s or a Single Participant to Receive the Message

Advantageously the exemplary embodiment of the GATHER service allows the event organizer to send his her message to all participants of an event a sub set of thereof or a single participant of the event. When the event organizer is preparing his her message the GATHER service may present the event organizer with options of sending the message to all participants a saved sub set s or segment of participants a new sub set of the participants or a single participant.

To send the message to all participants the event organizer checks the send to all participants option.

To send to a sub set s of participants the event organizer checks the send to a sub set option. If there is more than one sub set the GATHER service may present a list of the sub sets. The sub sets may be identified by their identifying characteristic same zip code same first name etc. . The event organizer may check the sub set s to which his her message is to be sent.

To send to a new sub set of participants the event organizer may check the send to new sub set option. The event organizer may be able to supply one or more criteria for including a participant in a new sub set. The GATHER service creates the new sub set from the list of email addresses for invitees using the criteria supplied by the event organizer. The event organizer then may choose the new sub set to which his her message is to be sent.

More particularly the specification of a subset of participants may be carried out by making use of a list segmentation feature such as offered by email marketing services such as the MailChimp service.

To send to only a single participant the event organizer may make a sub set of participants with only a single participant. The event organizer simply chooses the sub set with the single participant or creates a new sub set with only the participant included. Alternatively the GATHER service may present the event organizer with the list of participants by name email address and or other information and the event organizer may choose one or more participants to whom the message is to be sent.

Other embodiments of the inventions may allow an event organizer to send a message only to all the participants.

The GATHER app may allow the event organizer to create the substance of each message. The substance of a message is defined herein to mean the actual information the event organizer desires to convey to participants rather than other data that may be included in the text message such as the GATHER number of the event organizer the name of the event etc.

The event organizer may type copy and or otherwise submit the substance of the message in the appropriate box of the template provided by the GATHER App for the message. Other embodiments may provide other ways for an event organizer to compose a message.

The length of the substance of a message depends on the format used for transmitting the message. In the exemplary embodiment SMS is used. SMS messaging uses 140 bytes octets per message which translates to 160 characters 6 bit bytes of the English alphabet using 7 bit encoding. Thus the substance of a message may use up to 160 characters.

During a particular event theoretically the event organizer may send an indefinite number of messages to the GATHER service provider for transmission in text messages to participants. It is more likely however that the event organizer is allowed a selected number of messages during the time of the event such as based upon a payment plan selected by the event organizer . Also the length in time of the event is a factor in determining how many text messages may be sent. No text messages for an event may be sent after the event has ended.

If the event organizer has enabled a public archive webpage for listing the messages related to the event the event organizer may include the URL for the webpage so that participants may easily access the webpage.

Whether the event organizer s message is for all participants a sub set of participants or a single participant the exemplary GATHER app causes the message to be transmitted from the event examiner s device using HTTP to the GATHER service provider . Other embodiments may vary.

Upon receipt of the event organizer s message the GATHER service provider recognizes the event organizer . In the exemplary embodiment the GATHER service provider recognizes the event organizer by a token assigned to the GATHER account of the event organizer . For example the token may be an application programming interface API key for the event organizer associated with the GATHER service provided by the GATHER service provider . The service provider may recognize the event organizer by other methods in other embodiments.

Upon receipt of the event organizer s message the service provider may have to determine to which event if the event organizer has set up more than one event the message received from the event organizer pertains. The GATHER service provider may determine the pertinent event from the name of the event provided by the event provider in or associated with his her message. Alternatively the GATHER service may present the event organizer with a list of his her events and request the event organizer to identify the event s to which the organizer s message pertains.

After determining to which event of the event organizer the message pertains the GATHER service provider may check whether the timing is right for the event organizer s event. As noted above when an event organizer creates an event the event organizer specifies a start time and a stop time for the event. If the timing is right the service provider causes a text message as indicated by arrow in to be sent to the respective texting numbers of the participants as indicated by arrows .

If the event organizer has specified that the message be sent to participants of more than one event then the GATHER service may have to carry out the actions described herein with respect to each event. Hereafter the description refers only to a single event but the reader will understand that more than one event may be involved.

If the event has not started yet the GATHER service provider may reply to the event organizer s message with information that the event has not started yet but that the message will be transmitted when the event starts. The event organizer may have the option of cancelling the message. The service provider may otherwise provide the event organizer with the information that the event has not started yet.

If the event has ended the GATHER service provider may reply to the event organizer s message with information that the event has ended. The reply may include information that the event organizer s message will not be transmitted to the participants. The service provider may otherwise provide the event organizer with the information that the event has ended.

As noted above if the timing is right the service provider causes a text message as indicated by arrow in to be sent to the respective texting numbers of the participants as indicated by arrows .

In the exemplary embodiment the GATHER service provider uses an SMS short messaging or message service provider to send and receive the text messages to and from the participants. SMS is further described in Wells et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 125 281 and in patent documents cited therein all of which are incorporated herein by reference. SMS also may be referred to herein as instant messaging or text messaging. SMS is used herein to include mobile instant messaging MIM technology and may include multimedia messaging service MMS technology. In other embodiments the GATHER service provider may send and receive the text messages as a text messaging service provider without the need for a third party SMS provider.

Specifically in the exemplary embodiment of the inventions the GATHER service provider provides the information for the text message from the event organizer to participants to the SMS provider via HTTP. In one embodiment the GATHER service provider provides the SMS provider with the following information via HTPP the event organizer s GATHER number for use as the from number for the text message the event organizer s substance for the message and the texting numbers of the participants. Other embodiments may vary.

Upon receipt of the information from the GATHER service provider the SMS provider sends the text message to the respective participants. The text message is sent so that the respective participants receive the event organizer s message as if the text message originated with the GATHER number of the event organizer .

Once the SMS provider has sent the text message to a participant the participant via his her texting app on his her device may access the text message. The event organizer s text message appears just like any other text message in the participant s texting app. In another embodiment the event organizer s text message may be made to stand out from other text messages in some manner such as the use of an icon representing the event organizer and or otherwise.

The GATHER service provider may or may not communicate with the event organizer to confirm that the text message was sent to the participants 

The exemplary embodiment allows the participants to reply to the event organizer via text messages as if the participants were responding to a non GATHER text message. A participant may respond to or otherwise communicate with the event organizer by sending a text message to the GATHER number of the event organizer . In one embodiment the SMS provider receives the text message from the participant. The SMS provider parses the text message and sends it via HTTP to the GATHER service provider . Of course if the GATHER service provider is providing the functionality of the SMS provider in an embodiment the GATHER service provider receives the participant s text message without the need of an SMS provider as a middle man .

In an alternative embodiment a participant may reply via email with a message for the event organizer . The participant may send the reply email to the same email address to which the participant sent his her response to the email invitation to participate as a participant in the event.

Upon receipt of the participant s reply the GATHER service provider may use the GATHER number associated with the responsive text message to determine to which event organizer the participant s message pertains. The responsive text message may include the name of the event so that the GATHER service provider may determine to which event of an event organizer if the event organizer has more than one event the responsive text message pertains. The responsive text message includes the texting number of the participant so that the GATHER service may recognize the participant. In transmitting the participant s message to the event organizer the GATHER service does not provide the event organizer with the participant s texting number. Similarly if the GATHER service embodiment allows for replies from participants via email the GATHER service recognizes the participant by his her email address.

The GATHER service provider may check to see if the received message from a participant contains the word STOP to indicate an unsubscription or opt out request. If a participant responds to a text message with an opt out request the GATHER service provider may remove the opting out participant s texting number from its records if the participant participates in only the one event of the event organizer . No further text messages from the event organizer for the event are transmitted to the participant.

If the participant indicates that he she wishes to opt out of all of the events of the event organizer then the GATHER service provider removes the opting out participant s texting number from its records.

If the participant indicates that he she wishes to opt out of more than of the events of the event organizer but not all of the events of the event organizer then the GATHER service provider does not remove the opting out participant s texting number from its records at least until the last event in which the participant participates ends or the participant opts out of the remaining event s of the event organizer.

If there is no opt out request in the responsive text message from the participant to the event organizer the GATHER service provider may parse and relay the responsive text message as a communication via HTTP to the event organizer . The service provider may include the name of the replying participant and or other information relating to the participant in the communication sent to the event organizer . The GATHER service provider does not provide the texting number of the participant to the event originator .

In the exemplary GATHER service a participant may initiate a text message to the event organizer rather than just simply replying to a message from the event organizer . In that case the GATHER service provider also may include the name of the participant and or other information to the event organizer . In no case however does the GATHER service provider provide the event organizer with the texting number of the participant.

In the exemplary GATHER embodiment the GATHER service provider sends a push notification to the device of the event organizer to inform him her that a communication with a responsive message has been sent to him her. The GATHER app on the device of the event organizer may notify him her of the receipt of a new message or communication. Such notification may be provided without the need for the event organizer to open the GATHER app on his her device. For example the GATHER app on the device of the event organizer may display a badge with a number within the badge indicating the number of messages received but unread related to the GATHER account of the event organizer .

To view the responsive message from a participant the event organizer may use his her GATHER app on his or her mobile device and or any other appropriate device. The GATHER service provider may provide or make available the communications including the respective replies from participants to the event organizer in any of a myriad of communication forms. As noted if the author is using the GATHER app and has allowed push notifications on his or her communications device then the service provider may send the event organizer a push notification to inform him or her of the receipt of a communication relating to the event organizer s event. The event organizer may use the GATHER app to view the communication.

As another example the event organizer may provide the GATHER service provider with a texting number to use to forward the substance of the communications from the participants. Alternatively or in addition the service provider may provide the substance of the communications from the participants to the event organizer in another form such as email s . No matter the form of the communication to the event organizer the transmitted substance does not disclose the texting number of the participant to the event organizer .

As noted with respect to the exemplary embodiment a participant however may do more than simply reply to a text message from the event organizer . During an event a participant may initiate a conversation with the event organizer by sending a text message to the GATHER number selected by or provided to the event organizer . A message in a conversation initiated by a participant is treated in the same manner as the participants reply messages described above.

Advantageously the exemplary embodiment of the GATHER service allows an event organizer and a participant s to exchange messages during the whole time of the event. The exemplary GATHER service does not limit an event organizer or a participant to only a single message exchange. The limiting factor for an event organizer besides the duration of the event is likely to be the number of messages the event organizer s GATHER service allows based on the agreed payment plan.

In the exemplary GATHER embodiment it would not be unusual for a lot of participants to send respective text messages to the event organizer at the same approximate time. For example in response to the event organizer s invitation a lot of participants may reply about the same time. Advantageously the exemplary GATHER service allows for this circumstance. The exemplary GATHER service may group the messages so that the event organizer is involved in respective separate conversations with the responding participants. The grouping of the messages into respective conversations for the event organizer may be referred to as multi plexing . This process may be referred to as multiplexing because many participants may reply at about the same given time to a single message from the event organizer. Basically the multiplexing may be considered to be message routing based on source destination wireless numbers. The grouping of messages may include email messages if the GATHER embodiment allows for replies from participants via email.

Further the service provider may use the name of the participant to organize the communication containing the substance of the participant s text message. If the text message from the participant is the first received from him or her then the service provider may organize the communication containing the substance of the text message as the beginning of a conversation between the participant and the event organizer or as the first reply of that participant if the event organizer previously sent a text message such as an announcement message when the event started. If the text message from the participant is other than a first message then the GATHER service provider may organize the communication containing the substance of the text message as part of an existing or previous conversation between the participant and the event organizer . When an event organizer checks for messages the event organizer may see a list of conversations that show the latest message from each participant.

Advantageously the GATHER service may allow the event organizer to choose to view messages from participants in a conversational style with the newest message first or the event organizer may choose to view messages from participants in chronological order newest first without organization into conversations. Moreover in an embodiment of the inventions messages from certain participants may be given priority and or be provided more prominently or first over other participants messages.

An alternative embodiment of the GATHER service may be a one way service. For example the event organizer may send the substance of messages to the service provider for transmission to the participants via text messages but the event organizer may not be able to receive information back from the participants. In other words participants may not be able to reply to the event organizer .

Advantageously the GATHER service may warn the event organizer and or the participants that the end of the specified interval of time for the event approaches. The event organizer and or the participants may take the opportunity provided by the warning to send a final communication such as a thank you good bye and or notice of future events.

At the end of the event organizer s event the GATHER service provider may inform just the event organizer or the event organizer and the participants or a subset of the participants as selected by the event organizer or otherwise that the event has expired and that the texting notification service has been halted. The GATHER service provider s information may include notice that the texting numbers and or email addresses of the participants are to be deleted upon expiration of the event.

At the end of the event the GATHER service provider removes the respective texting numbers of the participants from the service provider s system. The exception as mentioned previously is if the participant participates in another later ending event of the event organizer. The removal of a participant s texting number may be accomplished in any appropriate manner. In an exemplary embodiment of the inventions the GATHER service providerl uses an SQL statement to set a value to null.

An embodiment of the GATHER service informs the participant s in a last text message of the deletion of their respective texting numbers after transmission of the last text message. Other embodiments may provide this information in other manners or not at all.

Advantageously the GATHER service provider retains the information on the texting numbers and or email addresses of the participants in a manner such that the service provider does not store and cannot determine the texting numbers and or email addresses. The hashing process described above allows the GATHER service provider to look up participants in the future without having maintained the texting numbers of the respective participants.

After the end of an event with an event organizer a participant may elect to participate in another event. The participant again provides the GATHER service provider with his her texting number. As explained above the GATHER service provider may create respectively the identifiers for the texting number and email address in the same manner as created for the event organizer s first event. The GATHER service provider then may check to determine whether the newly created identifiers match any previously created identifiers for previous events set up by the event organizer .

If the newly created identifiers match the previously created identifiers the GATHER service provider may organize the text messages exchanged between the event organizer and participant in the new event in a new conversation. The new conversation may include the previous conversation s between the event organizer and the participant in the earlier event s . By this feature of the exemplary embodiment of the GATHER service the event organizer and the participant have access to communications exchanged between them during the current event and previous event s . An alternative embodiment of the inventions may allow an event organizer to determine whether conversations from previous event s are to be included with the new conversation. The event organizer and or the participant may be provided with the option of viewing previous conversation s . For example a participant may choose to view the conversation from previous event A with the new conversation but not the conversation from previous event B.

Once enrolled the service provider may receive event information from the event organizer to set up an event as shown in action . From the event organizer the service provider may receive the name of the event the start time and the end time for the event and an electronic mail email address for at least one invitee to the event.

In action the service provider sends an email invitation to the invitee s to the event. In action the service provider receives a texting number s from respective invitee s who choose to be participant s in the event.

Upon receipt of a texting number from an invitee who chooses to be a participant in the event the service provider encodes at least the texting number of the participant into a texting identifier. The texting number and the texting number of the participant may be stored in association with each other or not . In addition to the texting number the exemplary embodiment may encode email address of the participant into an email identifier. The email address and email identifier of the participant may be stored in association with each other or not . In addition the texting number texting identifier email address and or email identifier may be stored in association with one or more of each other. An identifier for the event of the organizer i.e. the name of the event may be stored in association with the texting number texting identifier email address and or email identifier.

Still referring to the service provider checks in action for the participant s participation in another event current or previous of the event organizer. If the participant participates or has participated in another event of the organizer then in this embodiment in action the service provider includes the communications between the event organizer and the participant in the other event s as part of the conversational history between the organizer and the participant in the current event.

In action if the service provider receives a message from the organizer for event participants the service provider checks in action to determine whether the event has started. If the event has not started then in action the service provider does not send the message. The service provider may respond to the organizer with information that the event has not started as yet or that the message will be sent when the event has begun.

If the event of the organizer has started as determined in action then in action the service provider determines if the event has ended. If the event has ended the service provider does not send the message as shown in action . The service provider may respond to the organizer with information that the event has ended and no message will be sent.

If the event has not ended as determined in action then in action the service provider causes the message of the organizer to be sent as a text message to the texting numbers of the participants.

In action as shown in if the service provider receives a message from a participant directed to the organizer s number the service provider may repeat the process beginning with action to determine whether the event has started. If the event has not started the service provider does not send the message. Instead the service provider may respond to the participant with information that the event has not started or that the participant s message will be transmitted to the organizer when the event has begun.

If the event has started as determined in action then in action the service provider checks whether the event has ended. If the event has ended then in action the service provider may respond to the participant with information that the event has not started or that the participant s message will be transmitted to the organizer when the event has begun.

If the event has not ended as determined in action then in action the service provider causes the message of the participant to be sent to the organizer.

In addition to monitoring for communications from the organizer and participant s the service provider may also monitor for the end time of an event in action . If the event has not ended then the service provider continues to monitor for communications from the organizer and participants in action .

If the event has ended in action the service provider checks whether the participant s participate in another event of the organizer that ends later than the current event. If this event is the last ending event in which a participant participates then in action the participant s texting number is deleted. If this event is not the last ending event in which a participant participates then in action the participant s texting number is not deleted. The process may return to action to monitor for event information received from the organizer and or action to monitor for messages.

The computer system includes a bus or other communications mechanism for communicating information and a processor coupled with the bus for processing information. The computer system also includes a main memory such as random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device e.g. dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM and synchronous DRAM SDRA coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . In addition the computer system includes a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device e.g. programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM and electrically erasable PROM EEPROM coupled to the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor .

Further the computer system includes a disk controller coupled to the bus to control one or more storage devices for storing information and instructions such as a magnetic hard disk and a removable media drive e.g. floppy disk drive read only compact disc drive read write compact disc drive compact disc jukebox tape drive and removable magneto optical drive . The storage device may be added to the computer system using an appropriate device interface e.g. small computer system interface SCSI integrated device electronics IDE enhanced IDE E IDE direct memory access SMA or ultra DMA .

The computer system may include special purpose logic devices e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs or configurable logic devices e.g. simple programmable logic devices SPLDs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs and field programmable gate arrays FPGAs .

Also the computer system may include a display controller coupled to the bus to control a display for displaying information to a computer user. The computer system may include input devices such as keyboard and a pointing device for interacting with a computer user and providing information to the processor . The pointing device may be a mouse a trackball and or a pointing stick for communication direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display . A printer not shown may provide printed listings of the data structures and or information stored and or generated by the computer system .

The computer system may perform all or a part of the processing actions of the inventions in response to the processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in a memory such as the main memory . The instructions may be read into the main memory from another computer readable medium such as a hard disk or a removable media drive . One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

As previously mentioned the computer system includes at least one computer readable medium or memory for holding instructions programmed according to the teachings of the inventions and for containing data structures tables records and or other data described herein. Examples of computer readable media include compact discs hard disks floppy disks tape magneto optical disks PROMs EPROM EEPROM flash EPROM DRAM SRAM SDRAM and or any other magnetic medium compact discs e.g. CD ROM or any other optical medium punch cards paper tape and or other physical medium with patterns of holes a carrier wave described below and or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The inventions may include software for controlling the computer system for driving a device or devices for implementing the inventions and for enabling the computer system to interact with a human user. The software may be stored on any one or on a combination of computer readable media. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems development tools and or applications software. Such computer readable media further include the computer program product of the inventions for performing all or a portion if processing is distributed of the processing performed in implementing the inventions.

The computer code devices of the inventions may be any interpretable or executable code mechanism including but not limited to scripts interpretable programs dynamic link libraries DLLs Java classes and or complete executable programs. Parts of the processing of the present invention may be distributed for better performance reliability and or cost.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. A computer readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical magnetic disks and magneto optical disks such as the hard disk or the removable media drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and or fiber optics including the wires that make up the bus . Transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Computer readable media of various forms may be involved in carrying out one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. As an example the instructions may initially be carried out on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer may load the instructions for implementing all or a part of the inventions remotely into a dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem or otherwise. A modem local to the computer system may receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector coupled to the bus may receive the data carried in the infrared signal and place the data on the bus . The bus may carry the data to the main memory from which the processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the main memory may optionally be stored on storage device and or either before or after execution by processor .

The computer system may include a communication interface coupled to the bus . The communication interface may provide a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to for example a local area network LAN and or to another communications network see such as the Internet. For example the communication interface may be a network interface card to attach to any packet switched LAN. As another example the communication interface may be an asymmetrical digital subscriber line ADSL card an integrated services digital network ISDN card and or a modem to provide a data communication connection s to a corresponding type of communications line. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation the communication interface may send and receive electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that may carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

In the computer system the network link may provide data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. As an example the network link may provide a connection to another computer through a local network e.g. a LAN and or through equipment operated by a service provider which provides communication services through a communications network . The local area network LAN and the communications network may use electrical electromagnetic and or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which carry the digital data to and from the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information. The computer system may transmit and receive data including program code through the network s and the network link and the communication interface . The network link may provide a connection through the LAN to a mobile device not shown such as a tablet e.g. an iPAD tablet or mini iPad tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a computer including a laptop or other portable computer cellular telephone and or wireless unit or device. The LAN and the communications network may use electrical electromagnetic and or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which carry the digital data to and from the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information. The computer system may transmit notifications and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and or the communication interface .

Additional information regarding email messages text messages SMS wireless and landline communications computer systems and environments and other elements of the inventions may be obtained from the following patents which are incorporated herein by reference Rao U.S. Pat. No. 8 428 645 Lin U.S. Pat. No. 8 417 269 Clarke et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 135 788 Clarke et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 363 026 and Major U.S. Pat. No. 7 151 932.

The foregoing describes the best mode and other examples. Various modifications may be made therein and the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the teachings herein.

