---

title: Loudspeaker with laminate panel for mobile computing platforms
abstract: Systems and methods enhancing loudspeaker audio performance in thin devices, such as mobile computing platforms and/or communication handsets. In some embodiments, a laminate panel including a dielectric membrane and one or more conductive traces forming an inductive loop suitable wireless charging and/or near field communication (NFC) element is employed as a loudspeaker driven at audio frequencies. In some embodiments, the laminate panel is driven with one or more piezoelectric element. In some embodiments, the laminate panel is of a stiffness and mass to provide a frequency response distinct from that of integrated micro-speakers for a 2.1 audio solution with wider bandwidth than is possible with micro-speakers employing back-side cavities. In some embodiments, the frequency spectrum spanned by the laminate panel loudspeaker enables a tweeter design lacking back-side cavities for smaller device form factor. In some ultra-small form factors, micro-speakers may be eliminated from the platform with the laminate panel providing the only loudspeaker diaphragm for the mobile platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09553960&OS=09553960&RS=09553960
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09553960
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150904
---
Noting that sound is created by the fluctuation of air pressure caused by the movement and or vibration of a given object the impact of loudspeaker size on loudspeaker performance is clear. It is also apparent that with the trend toward slim thin form factors in mobile computing platforms such as smart phones and other mobile wearable devices it is increasingly difficult for device manufacturers to design loudspeaker solutions. The size of loudspeakers that fit inside modern mobile devices are simply too small to move large volumes of air. As a result loudspeaker performance in mobile devices has stagnated or even degraded in recent years.

To facilitate a continued shrinking of mobile device platform dimensions loudspeaker performance may continue to decline until loudspeaker integration is discontinued at which point device users will be required to rely exclusively on ear buds or other auxiliary audio speakers. Loudspeaker solutions that can augment existing micro speaker designs to achieve greater audio performance or replace existing micro speaker designs to enable more flexibility in device form factor and scalability are therefore advantageous.

One or more embodiments are described with reference to the enclosed figures. While specific configurations and arrangements are depicted and discussed in detail it should be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. Persons skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other configurations and arrangements are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the description. It will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art that techniques and or arrangements described herein may be employed in a variety of other systems and applications beyond what is described in detail herein.

Reference is made in the following detailed description to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and illustrate exemplary embodiments. Further it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of claimed subject matter. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of claimed subject matter is defined solely by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In the following description numerous details are set forth however it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. Well known methods and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail to avoid obscuring more significant aspects. References throughout this specification to an embodiment or one embodiment mean that a particular feature structure function or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in an embodiment or in one embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures functions or characteristics described in the context of an embodiment may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example a first embodiment may be combined with a second embodiment anywhere the particular features structures functions or characteristics associated with the two embodiments are not mutually exclusive.

As used in the description of the exemplary embodiments and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

As used throughout the description and in the claims a list of items joined by the term at least one of or one or more of can mean any combination of the listed terms. For example the phrase at least one of A B or C can mean A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used herein to describe functional or structural relationships between components. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical optical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may be used to indicated that two or more elements are in either direct or indirect with other intervening elements between them physical optical or electrical contact with each other and or that the two or more elements co operate or interact with each other e.g. as in a cause an effect relationship .

Some portions of the detailed descriptions provide herein are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as calculating computing determining estimating storing collecting displaying receiving consolidating generating updating or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s circuitry including registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

While the following description sets forth embodiments that may be manifested in architectures such system on a chip SoC architectures for example implementation of the techniques and or arrangements described herein are not restricted to particular architectures and or computing systems and m fay be implemented by any architecture and or computing system for similar purposes. Various architectures employing for example multiple integrated circuit IC chips and or packages and or various computing devices and or consumer electronic CE devices such as set top boxes smartphones etc. may implement the techniques and or arrangements described herein. Further while the following description may set forth numerous specific details such as logic implementations types and interrelationships of system components logic partitioning integration choices etc. claimed subject matter may be practiced without such specific details. Furthermore some material such as for example control structures and full software instruction sequences may not be shown in detail in order not to obscure the material disclosed herein.

Certain portions of the material disclosed herein may be implemented in hardware for example as logic circuitry in an image processor. Certain other portions may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. At least some of the material disclosed herein may also be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors graphics processors and or central processors . A machine readable medium may include any medium and or mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other similarly non transitory tangible media.

One or more system apparatus method and computer readable media is described below for enhancing loudspeaker audio performance in thin small form factor devices such as mobile computing and communication handsets. In some embodiments a laminate panel including a dielectric membrane and one or more conductive traces patterned into inductive loops suitable for wireless charging and or near field communication NFC is employed as a loudspeaker panel driven at audio frequencies. In some embodiments the laminate panel is driven with one or more piezoelectric element. In some embodiments the laminate panel is of a stiffness and mass tuned to provide a bass frequency response distinct from a mid range or treble frequency response of integrated micro speakers. A 2.1 audio solution may be provided with wider acoustic output bandwidth than is possible with only resonance tuned micro speakers. In some embodiments the frequency spectrum spanned by the laminate panel loudspeaker enables a micro speaker design lacking back side cavities for smaller device form factor. In some ultra small form factors micro speakers may be eliminated in reliance upon the laminate panel as the only loudspeaker diaphragm for the computing platform.

The exemplary 2.1 audio system depicted includes a pair of integrated micro tweeters and an integrated loudspeaker including a laminate vibration panel . Laminate panel includes a dielectric membrane and is of a stiffness and mass tuned to provide a bass frequency response distinct from a mid range or treble frequency response of micro tweeters . In other words laminate panel functions as a bass speaker or subwoofer in the 2.1 system. While micro tweeters may be of any conventional design in some advantageous embodiments micro tweeters lack a back side cavity. As such there is no acoustically sealed chamber or cavity on a back side of the micro speaker loudspeaker membrane. Absent any acoustically sealed back side cavity the total platform volume occupied by micro tweeters is significantly less than that of a micro speaker of comparable membrane area employing such a cavity. In absence of the back side cavity micro speaker sound pressures are reinforced over at least a portion of acoustic output bandwidth by acoustic output from laminate panel .

As further illustrated in dielectric membrane has a back side surface mechanically coupled to a speaker actuator disposed within the cavity defined by chassis . The actuator is to generate an acoustic output by displacing membrane relative to chassis in response to an electrical signal. During operation vibrations in laminate panel generate acoustic energy within the audible frequency range. In some embodiments acoustic energy is emanated predominately from a front side of laminate panel opposite the speaker actuator and facing away from chassis back side . In the illustrated embodiment the speaker actuator comprises a pair of piezoelectric elements . In other embodiments more than two piezoelectric elements or a single piezoelectric element may be employed as the speaker actuator. In the illustrated embodiment the pair of piezoelectric elements are disposed at opposite ends of laminate panel . In exemplary embodiments the piezoelectric elements are distributed mode actuators in which a bending motion generates distributed acoustic output from laminate panel . When more than one piezoelectric elements is employed they may generate vibrations in laminate panel associated with a same or different frequency responses. In alternative embodiments the speaker actuator comprises any electro magnetic actuator known to be suitable for an acoustic vibration panel application. In still other embodiments the speaker actuator comprises a voice coil motor.

In some exemplary embodiments loudspeaker laminate panel has a surface area significantly larger than that of a diaphragm employed in micro tweeters . In some embodiments laminate panel has an acoustically active surface area i.e. the portion of panel that is to bend or vibrate relative to chassis during operation that is at least three times the diaphragm area of one micro tweeter . Advantageously laminate panel has an acoustically active surface area that is at least five times that of one micro tweeter and more advantageously at least an order of magnitude larger than the diaphragm area of one micro tweeter . In some exemplary embodiments laminate panel has an acoustically active surface area that is at least 9 cm advantageously at least 12 cm and more advantageously at least 16 cm. In exemplary embodiments laminate panel is of a significantly different surface area than that of a display screen e.g. LCD panel disposed over chassis front side opposite laminate panel .

In the exemplary 2.1 mobile audio system micro tweeters have a resonance frequency no lower than 1 KHz advantageously above 1 KHz and more advantageously 2 KHz or above. The loudspeaker employing laminate panel has a resonance frequency below 1 KHz advantageously below 750 Hz and more advantageously below 500 Hz. illustrates a frequency response for a mobile computing device employing a 2.1 audio system in accordance with some embodiments. A model loudspeaker employing laminate panel generates acoustical output having an estimated subwoofer frequency response reaching a sound pressure level SPL of at least 50 dB and advantageously 70 dB at 100 Hz at a 10 cm distance from the source. Model micro tweeters lacking a back side cavity generate acoustical output having a mid range and or treble frequency response reaching a sound pressure level SPL of at least 80 dB at 5000 Hz at 10 cm distance from the source. While micro tweeters may be driven by a 2 Vdrive signal a higher voltage e.g. 30 V may be needed to drive laminate panel as a function of the actuator. The frequency response associated with a conventional 2.0 audio system including only a pair of micro speakers with sealed back side cavities is further included in to illustrate the greater acoustic output bandwidth of a 2.1 audio system in accordance with embodiments described herein.

Any known dielectric material may be employed as the dielectric membrane of a laminate panel loudspeaker in accordance with embodiments herein. Functioning as a loudspeaker diaphragm properties of the dielectric membrane are important for tuning the acoustical performance of the laminate panel. The dielectric membrane material and film properties affect directly the panel loudspeaker sensitivity loudness and bandwidth frequency response . Membrane stiffness flexibility mass and elastic modulus are all important for selecting the material. One exemplary dielectric membrane material is a polyimide film. The use of a dielectric membrane material as the loudspeaker diaphragm advantageously enables the membrane to be further employed as a substrate for one or more conductive traces. The conductive traces together with the dielectric membrane are the minimum constituents of a loudspeaker laminate panel in accordance with some embodiments. Conductive traces disposed on the dielectric membrane may form one or more inductive loop or coil operable for at least one of inductive charging of the mobile device platform or near field communication NFC with the mobile device platform. Laminate panel therefore integrates inductive coupling functions with acoustic output functions in a mobile computing platform.

Integrating a loudspeaker with inductive coils of a wireless charging or NFC element within a mobile device has a number of advantages. Relative to other more complex paneled components of a mobile device e.g. a display screen inductive charging and or NFC coils are more tolerant of bending and vibrations. Also because inductive coils are often separated from a back cover of a mobile device e.g. to allow the use of a metal cover for minimum device thickness a dielectric membrane is suitable as an alternative substrate for implementing the inductive charging coils. Furthermore because the inductive coils are of very low mass and indifferent to the substrate beyond it being a dielectric one is free to tune the dielectric membrane mass and stiffness to achieve a desired acoustic output performance as a loudspeaker. In some embodiments where the acoustically active membrane surface area is at least 9 cmfor example laminate panel e.g. comprising coil and or has a total mass no greater than 50 g. This low mass provides a large window for tuning the laminate panel stiffness to achieve a desired frequency response for the loudspeaker. Inductive coils are also forgiving with respect to trace routing enabling the routing to be optimized from a standpoint of tuning bending modes within the laminate panel.

Inductive coils may be printed on one or more sides of a dielectric membrane. In the exemplary embodiment illustrated in and inductive coils are printed on membrane front side . At least one inductive coil may also be disposed on the membrane back side . illustrates a mobile computing device assembly with a 2.1 audio system that includes a loudspeaker comprising laminate membrane coupled to piezoelectric elements in accordance with some embodiments. illustrates first embodiments where inductive coils are disposed on a front side of dielectric membrane with membrane shown as being optically transparent to be on an opposite side as piezoelectric elements . also illustrates second embodiments where inductive coils are disposed on the membrane back side to face piezoelectric elements .

Although for the exemplary 2.1 audio system the loudspeaker laminate panel is to be tuned for low frequencies e.g. as a subwoofer as a complement to micro tweeters for wideband audio performance the loudspeaker laminate panel may also be employed as the exclusive source of acoustic output in a mobile computing device. illustrates a mobile computing device assembly having an ultra small form factor including laminate panel coupled to piezoelectric elements in accordance with some embodiments. Additional form factor size reduction is achieved by eliminating micro speakers from the platform in exclusive reliance on one loudspeaker that employs the laminate panel. Frequency response of such a loudspeaker depends in part on the platform dimension impacting laminate panel dimensions. For example for a wearable mobile computing device e.g. a wrist watch laminate panel may only be a 2 3 cm on a side. Stiffness of such a panel may be nevertheless tuned to achieve a wide range of frequency response.

Deflectable bar member further includes one or more region physically coupled to a laminate panel . In the exemplary embodiment an interior region of dielectric membrane is physically attached to deflectable bar member with a coupling member . In some advantageous embodiments coupling member is an elastomeric material such as but not limited to silicon adhesives. Coupling member is to form a resilient joint between deflectable bar member and relatively stiff laminate panel .

A second side of a laminate panel opposite the speaker actuator is affixed to the chassis or to an intervening member that is physically coupled to the chassis. This second side is to form an acoustic and or hermetic seal. In the exemplary embodiment illustrated in laminate panel includes inductive loop trace disposed within an inner region of membrane while an outer region surrounding the inner region of back side membrane surface is affixed to an inside surface of back side frame or bezel . Back side frame forms a perimeter about laminate panel . Although not illustrated in back side frame is coupled to chassis so as to remain in a fixed position relative to chassis even during operation of loudspeaker . In some embodiments a perimeter of membrane is affixed to back side frame by a continuous adhesive seal comprising for example a silicon based adhesive.

In some embodiments a loudspeaker laminate panel includes one or more mechanical stiffening members. Mechanical stiffening members stiffeners may be disposed on an interior or exterior side of the laminate panel or both. Stiffening members may comprise any non metallic material known to be suitable as a covering for inductive loops such as but not limited to plastics e.g. acrylics polyesters polyethylene etc. carbon fiber bis maleimide triazine BT laminate FR 4 glass epoxy and the like. Other dielectric materials may also be employed. In the example illustrated in laminate panel further includes a stiffening member . Stiffening member is to function as a mechanical stiffener of the loudspeaker diaphragm and also protect inductive loops from mechanical abrasion and function as a portion of the device back side cover. In the exemplary embodiment dielectric membrane suspends stiffening member from chassis via back side frame . Dielectric membrane therefore seals the interior platform cavity within a gap G between and edge of the stiffening member and an opposing edge of the back side frame . In alternative embodiments stiffening member has the same area as dielectric membrane and an exterior edge surface of stiffening member is sealed to an interior edge surface of back side frame substantially as illustrated for membrane . In still other embodiments dielectric membrane is the outermost surface i.e. the back side cover while stiffening member is disposed within device cavity encircled by chassis . Inductive loops may be disposed between stiffening member and membrane or disposed on a side of stiffening member opposite membrane . For such embodiments dielectric membrane may from a continuous skin on the outside of the computing device.

In the embodiment illustrated in laminate panel is an external surface of a mobile computing device platform back side . One might expect that when laminate panel is externally visible and can make physical contact with user or other external objects laminate panel might not function well as a loudspeaker. For example laminate panel might be expected to be heavily damped when the platform is held in a user s hand or placed on a surface. However the inventor has found that when driven to vibrate in audible frequencies a stiff membrane need only have a travel length of 0.02 0.1 mm. It has further been determined that sound sensitivity of the laminate panel is not significantly attenuated by a user s touch with fingers or palm or when the panel is placed against a table or in pocket.

Platform includes 2.1 audio system . System includes laminate panel piezoelectric element physically coupled to laminate panel and piezoelectric driver electrically coupled to piezoelectric element . The 2.1 audio system further includes a pair of micro tweeters . Piezoelectric driver is to provide a high voltage e.g. 30 V or more signal suitable for driving piezoelectric element based on a received low voltage audio signal to generate an acoustic output from laminate panel by displacing the panel relative to a platform chassis. In some embodiments piezoelectric driver comprises a high voltage Class H ceramic speaker driver such as but not limited to LM48560 commercially available from Texas Instruments Inc. Piezoelectric driver is coupled to an output of audio video codec A or B as well as to battery . In some embodiments battery is further coupled to one or more inductive coil of laminate panel . Codec A or B includes logic to decompress or decode a digital audio stream into an audio signal. In some embodiments codec A is implemented by microprocessor . In alternative embodiments codec B is implemented by audio HW comprising integrated circuitry external to microprocessor . In some embodiments processor s includes logic to perform A V codec operations on an input digital audio stream and output an audio signal suitable for piezoelectric driver . In some embodiments A V codec logic A is implemented with programmable circuitry including registers that have been configured through software instruction s . Both software and hardware implementations may be well suited to implementing A V codec logic A in accordance with embodiments described herein. For hardware implementations A V codec logic B may be implemented by fixed function logic. For software implementations any known programmable processor including a core of processor s an execution unit of a graphics processor or vector processor may be utilized to implement the A V codec logic A or B.

In some embodiments an output of the audio codec e.g. codec A is coupled to an input of both piezoelectric driver and micro tweeters through an audio band pass filter . Audio band pass filter may pass a lower frequency band to piezoelectric driver and pass a higher frequency band to micro tweeters . One or more subsystem drivers may be employed to control parameters of 2.1 audio system including operation of piezoelectric driver for example to reduce an output sensitivity of laminate panel . In some embodiments processor s is programmed with instructions stored on a computer readable media to cause the processor to perform one or more driving a speaker actuator coupled to a laminate panel for example as described elsewhere herein.

Battery is electrically coupled to an inductive coil comprising an element of laminate panel . During a battery charging phase of operation the inductive coil is to inductively charge battery from an alternating current power source external to platform . One or more processor is further electrically coupled to battery .

As further illustrated in video output from A V codec may be output to storage display transmission pipeline . In one exemplary storage pipeline embodiment video data is streamed to electronic memory e.g. DDR etc. . Memory may be separate or a part of a main memory accessible to processor . Alternatively or in addition storage display transmission pipeline is to output a visual representation of video data in synchronization with acoustic output generated by laminate panel in response to a drive signal generated based on audio data associated with the video data.

System includes a device platform that may implement all or a subset of the various acoustic output generation methods and any of the logic blocks circuitry described above in the context of . In various exemplary embodiments video processor executes at least a portion of A V codec logic for example as described above. In some embodiments one or more computer readable media may store instructions which when executed by CPU and or video processor cause the processor s to drive a laminate panel to generate acoustic output.

In embodiments device platform is coupled to a human interface device HID . Platform may wirelessly charge a battery configured to power platform with a wireless charger further including one or more wireless charging coils. Platform includes at least a loudspeaker laminate panel and further includes micro tweeters implementing a mobile 2.1 audio system. A navigation controller including one or more navigation features may be used to interact with for example device platform and or HID . In embodiments HID may include any television type monitor or display panel coupled to platform via radio and or network and or be integrated into platform . HID may include for example a computer display screen touch screen display video monitor television like device and or a television to receive touch inputs.

In embodiments device platform may include any combination of wireless charger micro tweeters loudspeaker laminate panel chipset processors memory storage applications and or radio . Chipset may provide intercommunication among processors memory video processor applications or radio .

One or more of processors may be implemented as one or more Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC or Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC processors x86 instruction set compatible processors multi core or any other microprocessor or central processing unit CPU .

Memory may be implemented as a volatile memory device such as but not limited to a Random Access Memory RAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM or Static RAM SRAM . Memory may also be implemented as a non volatile storage device such as but not limited to flash memory battery backed up SDRAM synchronous DRAM magnetic memory phase change memory and the like.

Radio may include one or more radios capable of transmitting and receiving signals using various suitable wireless communications techniques. Such techniques may involve communications across one or more wireless networks. Example wireless networks include but are not limited to wireless local area networks WLA Vs wireless personal area networks WPA Vs wireless metropolitan area network WMA Vs cellular networks and satellite networks. In communicating across such networks radio may operate in accordance with one or more applicable standards in any version.

In embodiments system may be implemented as a wireless system a wired system or a combination of both. When implemented as a wireless system system may include components and interfaces suitable for communicating over a wireless shared media such as one or more antennas transmitters receivers transceivers amplifiers filters control logic and so forth. An example of wireless shared media may include portions of a wireless spectrum such as the RF spectrum and so forth. When implemented as a wired system system may include components and interfaces suitable for communicating over wired communications media such as input output I O adapters physical connectors to connect the I O adapter with a corresponding wired communications medium a network interface card NIC disc controller video controller audio controller and the like. Examples of wired communications media may include a wire cable metal leads printed circuit board PCB backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optics and so forth.

As described above system may be embodied in varying physical styles or form factors. further illustrates embodiments of a mobile handset platform in which platform and or system may be embodied. In embodiments for example handset platform may be implemented as a mobile computing device having wireless telecommunication capabilities. As shown in mobile handset platform may include a housing with a front side and back side . Handset platform includes a display an input output I O device and an integrated antenna . Handset platform also may include navigation features . Display may include any suitable display panel for displaying information appropriate for a mobile computing device. I O device may include any suitable I O device for entering information into a mobile computing device. Examples for I O device include an alphanumeric keyboard a numeric keypad a touch pad input keys buttons switches microphones speakers voice recognition device and software and so forth. Information also may be entered into handset platform by way of microphone not shown or may be digitized by a voice recognition device. Embodiments are not limited in this context. Integrated into at least the front side or back side is a camera module e.g. including a lens an aperture and an imaging sensor . As further illustrated back side comprises a back side cover affixed to a back side frame or bezel for example by a perimeter portion of a dielectric membrane to form a loudspeaker laminate panel.

As exemplified above embodiments described herein may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements or modules include processors microprocessors circuitry circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements or modules include applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application programming interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments data words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors considered for the choice of design such as but not limited to desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

One or more aspects of at least one embodiment may be implemented by representative instructions stored on a machine readable storage medium. Such instructions may reside completely or at least partially within a main memory and or within a processor during execution thereof by the machine the main memory and the processor portions storing the instructions then also constituting a machine readable storage media. Programmable logic circuitry may have registers state machines etc. configured by the processor implementing the computer readable media. Such logic circuitry as programmed may then be understood to be physically transformed into a system falling within the scope of the embodiments described herein. Instructions representing various logic within the processor which when read by a machine may also cause the machine to fabricate logic and or platform assemblies adhering to the architectures described herein and or to perform the techniques described herein. Such representations known as cell designs or IP cores may be stored on a tangible machine readable medium and supplied to various customers or manufacturing facilities to load into the fabrication machines that actually make the logic or processor.

While certain features set forth herein have been described with reference to embodiments this description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Hence various modifications of the implementations described herein as well as other implementations which are apparent to persons skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains are deemed to be within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

In one or more first embodiments a loudspeaker for a wireless device platform the loudspeaker comprising a chassis encircling a cavity and a speaker actuator disposed within the cavity the actuator coupled to the chassis and to a laminate panel the actuator to generate an acoustic output by displacing the laminate panel relative to the chassis in response to an electrical signal. The laminate panel further comprises a dielectric membrane and one or more conductive traces disposed on the dielectric membrane. The conductive traces comprise one or more inductive loop operable for at least one of inductive charging or near field communication.

In furtherance of the first embodiments an inner region of a first side of the laminate panel is mounted to the speaker actuator and an outer region surrounding the inner region of a second side of the laminate panel is affixed to the chassis or to an intervening member that is physically coupled to the chassis.

In furtherance of the first embodiments immediate above the actuator comprises one or more piezoelectric elements each including a deflectable member having a first region coupled to the dielectric membrane through an elastomeric material and a second region coupled to one or more anchor point affixed to the chassis.

In furtherance of the first embodiments an area of the dielectric membrane is at least 9 cm and the loudspeaker has a resonance frequency below 750 Hz.

In furtherance of the first embodiments the inner region of the second side is affixed to a mechanical stiffener the stiffener covering the conductive traces.

In furtherance of the first embodiments immediate above the dielectric membrane suspends the stiffener from the chassis.

In one or more second embodiments a mobile computing platform comprises a chassis encircling a cavity a display disposed on a front side of the cavity and physically coupled to the chassis a processor disposed within the cavity and electrically coupled to the display the processor to decode a digital audio stream into an audio signal a first loudspeaker disposed in the cavity the first loudspeaker comprising a speaker actuator coupled to the chassis and to a laminate panel the actuator to generate a first acoustic output by displacing the laminate panel relative to the chassis based on the audio signal a battery disposed within the cavity between the display and the laminate panel the battery electrically coupled to the display processor and speaker actuator. The laminate panel further comprises one or more conductive traces disposed on the dielectric membrane the conductive traces comprising one or more inductive loop operable for at least one of inductive charging or near field communication.

In furtherance of the second embodiments immediate above the speaker actuator further comprises one or more piezoelectric elements each including a deflectable member having a first region coupled to the laminate panel and a second region coupled to one or more anchor point affixed to the chassis. The platform further comprises a loudspeaker driver the driver coupled to the battery and to the piezoelectric elements the driver to output to the elements a high voltage electrical signal based on the audio signal.

In furtherance of the second embodiments immediate above an inner region of a front side of the dielectric membrane is mounted to the speaker actuator. An outer region surrounding the inner region of a back side of the dielectric membrane is affixed to an interior surface of a back side cover that is physically coupled to the chassis the membrane forming a continuous seal to the back side cover that forms a perimeter about the conductive traces.

In furtherance of the second embodiments immediate above the inner region of the membrane back side is affixed to a mechanical stiffener the stiffener covering the conductive traces. The dielectric membrane suspending the stiffener from the back side cover and the dielectric membrane spanning a gap between and edge of the stiffener and an opposing edge of the back side cover.

In furtherance of the second embodiments an area of the dielectric membrane is at least 9 cm. The dielectric membrane has a mass no greater than 50 g. The first loudspeaker has a resonance frequency below 750 Hz.

In furtherance of the second embodiments one or more micro loudspeakers coupled to the processor to receive the audio signal and to generate a second acoustic output the micro loudspeakers having a different frequency response than that of the first loudspeaker.

In furtherance of the second embodiments immediately above the first loudspeaker has a resonance frequency below 750 Hz and the micro loudspeakers have a resonance frequency above 1 KHz.

In furtherance of the second embodiments immediately above the micro loudspeakers lack an acoustically sealed back side cavity.

In one or more third embodiments a method of assembling a mobile computing platform includes receiving a chassis encircling a cavity affixing a speaker actuator to the chassis affixing a display to a front side of the chassis mounting an inductive element to an interior surface of a back cover the inductive element including one or more conductive traces disposed on a dielectric membrane the conductive traces forming one or more inductive loop physically coupling the speaker driver to the inductive element and affixing the back cover to the chassis.

In furtherance of the third embodiments mounting the inductive element further comprises bonding a perimeter of a dielectric membrane to the interior surface and wherein one or more conductive traces are disposed on the dielectric membrane the conductive traces comprising one or more inductive loop operable for at least one of inductive charging of the battery or near field communication with the platform.

In furtherance of the third embodiments the speaker actuator comprises one or more piezoelectric elements and affixing the back cover to the chassis induces contact between a surface of the dielectric membrane and an elastomeric material bonded to the piezoelectric elements.

In one or more further embodiments a method of operating a mobile computing platform comprises powering a processor of the platform with a battery disposed in the platform decoding a digital audio stream into a first audio signal with the processor generating an acoustic output by displacing a dielectric membrane relative to a chassis of the platform based on the audio signal and inductively charging the battery from an alternating current power source external to the platform through one or more conductive traces disposed on the dielectric membrane the conductive traces forming one or more inductive loop.

In furtherance of the fourth embodiments the method further comprises generating a second acoustic output with one or more micro speakers coupled to the processor to receive the audio signal wherein the second acoustic output has a different frequency response than that of the first acoustic output.

In furtherance of the fourth embodiments displacing the dielectric membrane further comprises outputting to one or more piezoelectric elements a high voltage electrical signal derived from the audio signal.

In one or more fifth embodiments one or more computer readable storage media includes instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method comprising decoding a digital audio stream into a first audio signal generating an acoustic output by displacing a dielectric membrane relative to a chassis of the platform based on the audio signal and inductively charging a battery internal to the platform from an alternating current power source external to the platform through one or more conductive traces disposed on the dielectric membrane the conductive traces forming one or more inductive loop.

In furtherance of the fifth embodiments the media further comprising instructions to cause the processor to generate a second acoustic output with one or more micro speakers coupled to the processor wherein the second acoustic output has a different frequency response than that of the first acoustic output.

In one or more sixth embodiments a mobile computing platform comprises a means to perform any one of the fourth embodiments.

In one or more seventh embodiments a computer readable storage media includes instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform any one of the fourth embodiments.

It will be recognized that the embodiments are not limited to the exemplary embodiments so described but can be practiced with modification and alteration without departing from the scope of the appended claims. For example the above embodiments may include specific combination of features. However the above embodiments are not limited in this regard and in embodiments the above embodiments may include undertaking only a subset of such features undertaking a different order of such features undertaking a different combination of such features and or undertaking additional features than those features explicitly listed. Scope should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

