---

title: Methods and systems for context-aware car diagnostics and commerce
abstract: Digital signage systems and methods are provided for advertising and vehicle maintenance-related content based on vehicle telematics data. Example method steps include receiving vehicle telematics data from an in-vehicle telematics device, creating a content production request based on the vehicle telematics data, retrieving context-aware information based on the content production request from a local database or a remote networked resource, creating a digital signage message based at least in part on the context-aware information and at least one predetermined rule, and causing display of the digital signage message on one or more displays.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09111296&OS=09111296&RS=09111296
owner: COGNIANCE, INC.
number: 09111296
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150112
---
This disclosure relates to digital signage systems and more particularly to digital signage systems and methods for providing advertisement content and vehicle maintenance related content based on vehicle telematics data.

Traditionally digital signage systems are used to display advertisements in public venues such as stadiums convention centers airports transit stations subways stations individual subway cars buses commercial buildings office buildings shopping malls retail outlets and so forth. These systems can help to provide advertisements and information to the public by employing dynamic signage involving various predetermined rules to be triggered by specific events. In particular dynamic signage can allow for video advertisements and messages to be displayed on electronic displays typically with the purpose of delivering targeted messages at specific locations specific times and for specific individuals. The digital content displayed by dynamic signage systems can be programmed and updated on a real time basis.

Existing digital signage systems can be interactive. These systems may include video cameras operable to detect the presence of individuals near a display or certain venue to initiate displaying advertising content. Some existing interactive digital signage systems include touch screens to provide interactive information inquiry service. However there are a number of limitations associated with interactive digital signage systems especially in the vehicle maintenance area.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The present technology relates to systems and methods for digital signage that provide advertising content and or vehicle maintenance related content based on acquired vehicle telematics data and predetermined rules. More specifically these systems can include at least one in vehicle telematics device which is embedded into a vehicle for aggregating vehicle telematics data. The in vehicle telematics device can communicate with a digital signage device automatically and wirelessly when the vehicle comes into a predetermined proximity area of the device. Notably there can be provided multiple digital signage devices with each of them located at different locations such as parking lots gas stations retail stores drive in restaurants vehicle maintenance service stations car dealerships motels and so forth. When the digital signage device receives vehicle telematics data it can generate custom text image video audio and or multimedia messages based on the vehicle telematics data and predetermined rules. The generated message may also include data acquired from local or networked resources e.g. web resources based on vehicle telematics data or specific search requests created based on vehicle telematics data. Further digital signage messages are caused for display to specific individuals. In one example one digital signage message can be displayed on a display device such as an advertising panel located in proximity of the vehicle such as at a parking lot a gas station or a drive in restaurant where the message can be readily available to a driver of the vehicle. In another example the same or a second digital signage message can be provided on a mobile device of the driver. In yet another example the same or a third digital signage message can be provided on a mobile device of maintenance personnel or any other possible service performer other than the driver.

According to one illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a method which can be implemented by means of a computing device. One example of the computing device includes at least one processor and memory storing process readable instructions causing the computing device to implement method steps. In particular the method can comprise the steps of receiving vehicle telematics data from an in vehicle telematics device where the vehicle telematics data is associated with a vehicle of a user. The method can further comprise the steps of creating a content production request based on the vehicle telematics data and retrieving from a local database or a remote networked resource context aware information based on the content production request. The method can further comprise the steps of building a digital signage message based at least in part on the context aware information and at least one predetermined rule and causing a display of the digital signage message on one or more displays.

In some embodiments the vehicle telematics data includes at least one of a user identifier associated with the vehicle or a vehicle identifier associated with the vehicle. Vehicle telematics data can also include one or more of the following a vehicle make a vehicle model a fuel level a fuel type one or more vehicle error codes one or more vehicle malfunction alerts historical data concerning traveled distances historical data concerning traveled directions and user preferences.

In some embodiments the step of receiving the vehicle telematics data can be performed automatically when the vehicle is located within a predetermined distance from the computing device or a wireless transceiver. Furthermore the content production request may include at least part of the vehicle telematics data.

In some embodiments context aware information may comprise vehicle diagnostics information advertisements maintenance recommendations related to vehicle maintenance services and or purchase recommendations related to one or more products or one or more services associated with the vehicle. In some embodiments one or more displays comprise at least one digital billboard handheld computing device or a mobile terminal.

In some embodiments the step of building the digital signage message based at least in part on the context aware information and at least one predetermined rule may comprise building a first digital signage message based on the context aware information and a first predetermined rule and building a second digital signage message based on the context aware information and a second predetermined rule where the first digital signage message differs from the second digital signage message and where the first digital signage message and the second digital signage message are associated with the vehicle. Moreover the step of causing display of the digital signage message on the one or more displays may comprise causing display of the first digital signage message on a first display and causing display of the second digital signage message on a second display where the first display differs from the second display.

In some embodiments the method may further include the steps of maintaining a user profile associated with the vehicle and updating the user profile with the vehicle telematics data. The method may further include the step of updating a loyalty account associated with the user profile based on the vehicle telematics data or the content production request. In some embodiments the step of building the digital signage message may further be based on the user profile.

In yet more embodiments the method may further include the steps of causing execution of a financial transaction using monetary or non monetary instruments associated with the user based on the vehicle telematics data or the content production request. The method may further include the step of generating the context aware information based on the content production request one or more content management rules and one or more templates.

In further example embodiments steps of method s described herein may be stored on a computer readable storage medium having a program embodied thereon with the program executable by a processor in a computing device. In yet further exemplary embodiments modules systems subsystems or devices can be adapted to perform the recited steps. Other features and exemplary embodiments are described below.

The following detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show illustrations in accordance with example embodiments. These example embodiments which are also referred to herein as examples are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present subject matter. The embodiments can be combined other embodiments can be utilized or structural logical and electrical changes can be made without departing from the scope of what is claimed. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated.

As outlined above embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to processor implemented methods for digital signage involving generation of custom digital signage messages based on vehicle telematics data and predetermined rules. These methods can enable multiple context aware scenarios for remote vehicle diagnostics driver assistance on time vehicle maintenance advertising and commerce. Custom digital signage messages can be displayed on a number of displays including advertising panels digital signage device displays and mobile devices depending on a particular scenario. Vehicle telematics data can be automatically and wirelessly acquired from an in vehicle telematics device upon detection of a proximity event which is triggered when the vehicle comes within a predetermined distance of the digital signage device or its wireless transceiver or when the vehicle arrives at a predetermined geographical location. As will be explained below in more detail some context aware scenarios may require a search for and retrieval of particular data from local or remote storage resources based on a particular scenario and vehicle telematics data. Accordingly these methods for digital signage can provide for an intelligent solution that can be easily customized for specific information delivering or advertising needs and enhance a driver s experience upon visiting gas stations parking lots vehicle maintenance service stations drive in restaurants motels retail stores or any other places of interest where digital signage devices can be employed.

Embodiments of the described methods and systems are presented below with reference to the figures of drawings where like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures systems and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more embodiments.

Upon receipt of vehicle telematics data digital signage device can generate a displayable custom digital signage message based at least in part on the vehicle telematics data and predetermined rules. The message can be built using local resources or remote networked resources using a content manager and or content builder. The message may include text images videos and or audio content. Accordingly in this example embodiment the message is displayed on a billboard for the vehicle driver or vehicle passengers. For instance this message may include advertisement content vehicle telematics data processed vehicle telematics data suggestions or recommendations such as purchase recommendations or service recommendations. In some other embodiments the messages can be displayed on a mobile device of the driver or on a mobile device of a particular service provider instead of the billboard .

This approach provides for multiple context aware scenarios. For example in one illustrative embodiment the message displayed on the billboard may include a recommendation for the driver to run a regular vehicle maintenance service at a certain service station or make a purchase of a particular motor oil because it is determined based on the vehicle telematics data that the vehicle has gone over 20 000 miles since the last maintenance service. In another example the billboard may display a personalized message for the driver to enroll in a loyalty program associated with this particular gas station because acquired vehicle telematics data reveals that the driver is not enrolled. In yet another example no message is displayed at all but the digital signage device facilitates a financial transaction such as a payment for the gas purchased at the gasoline station . These and other example embodiments are explained in greater detail below.

A vehicle can be equipped with an in vehicle telematics device which is operatively connected to various sensing devices and detectors collectively called sensors . In some examples in vehicle telematics device can be connected to or be an integral part of an in vehicle computer onboard computing system or built in infotainment system. In any case in vehicle telematics device can automatically aggregate and store vehicle telematics data associated with the vehicle and optionally with the driver or a vehicle owner.

The term vehicle telematics data as used herein may refer to multiple disparate parameters and information including but not limited to a vehicle identifier e.g. VIN driver identifier vehicle make vehicle model vehicle year fuel level fuel type oil level oil type vehicle error code vehicle malfunction alert historical data about traveled distances historical data concerning traveled routes mileage data miles per gallon MPG or any combination thereof. The term vehicle as used herein can refer to various motorized transportation means including an automobile car bus truck motorcycle motorized bicycle train plane boat and so forth.

Communication between the digital signage devices and in vehicle telematics device can be performed wirelessly using Bluetooth iBeacon Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 standards or any other suitable proprietary wireless communication standards. In other instances in vehicle telematics device can communicate with digital signage devices using one or more cellular networks. In yet other examples wired communications are also possible. Communications between these devices can include two way communications or one way communication depending on particular needs.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure communications between the digital signage devices and in vehicle telematics device can be triggered automatically upon detection of a proximity event. The proximity event may be triggered when for example the vehicle comes within a predetermined area nearby digital signage device or its wireless transceiver. In other embodiments however the proximity event may be triggered when the vehicle visits a certain geographical location in this case vehicle telematics data can be transmitted through a cellular network .

When digital signage device acquires vehicle telematics data from in vehicle telematics device the digital signage device can proceed with management of the content and creating one or more custom digital signage messages. These messages can be created by digital signage device or server system . In other words the messages can be created on site or remotely. Furthermore messages can include content retrieved from local resources or remote networked resources . For example inventory data service descriptions images multimedia data and so forth can be retrieved from local or remote resources and embedded into custom messages. Each of local resources or networked resources can include storage with a database and processing means such as computing device server or the like. In some embodiments local resources can be an integral part of digital signage device . In other embodiments local resources can be operatively connected to digital signage device .

The communications between digital signage device and server system local resources and networked resources can be implemented via one or more communications networks . The communications networks may include but are not limited to the Internet intranet local area network LAN wide area network WAN cellular phone networks e.g. Global System for Mobile communications network packet switching communications network circuit switching communications network Long Term Evolution communications network Bluetooth radio iBeacon radio and an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network among others.

As discussed above custom digital signage messages can be displayed not only on billboards but also on mobile devices or on mobile devices only. In particular in some embodiments digital signage device or server system may cause display of custom digital signage messages on mobile devices of vehicle drivers or owners. In certain other embodiments digital signage device or server system may facilitate displaying custom digital signage messages on mobile devices of service providers such as service station personnel gasoline station personnel retail store workers vehicle dealership personnel and so forth. In yet further embodiments the messages can be displayed both on mobile devices and on mobile devices whereas these messages can be the same similar or completely different messages. The term mobile device as used herein may refer to cellular phones smart phones portable computing devices laptop computers tablet computers personal digital assistants PDAs wearable computers portable game consoles and the like.

In the shown embodiment in vehicle telematics device includes one or more processors memory one or more storage devices On board diagnostics II OBD II port one or more sensors location determining module modem and wireless transceiver . One or more processors are in some examples configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution in the in vehicle telematics device . For example the processor may process instructions stored in memory and or instructions stored on storage devices . Such instructions may specify components of an operating system OBD II service communication service or software applications . In some embodiments the processor includes an ARM based microcontroller.

Memory in some example embodiments may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium or a computer readable storage device. In some examples memory is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of memory may not be long term storage. Memory may also refer to a volatile memory meaning that memory does not maintain stored contents when memory is not receiving power. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art. In some examples memory is used to store program instructions for execution by the processors . Memory in one example is used by software modules such as a software firmware or middleware necessary for implementing methods for digital signage as disclosed herein.

One or more storage devices can also include one or more transitory or non transitory computer readable storage media and or computer readable storage devices. In some embodiments storage devices may be configured to store greater amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples the storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs solid state discs flash memories forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable memories and other forms of non volatile memories known in the art such as Secure Digital SD cards miniSD cards microSD cards and so forth. For example storage devices may aggregate and store vehicle telematics data.

Still referencing to OBD II port refers to one or more communication ports suitable for communicating with various vehicle sensors or an on board computer. The term OBD II refers to On Board Diagnostics system for monitoring automobile parameters and trucks. In particular OBD II systems e.g. sensors monitor the vehicle s electrical and mechanical systems and generate vehicle telematics data that are processed by a vehicle s engine control unit ECU to detect any malfunction or deterioration in the vehicle s performance. Vehicle telematics data may become available to in vehicle telematics device through a standardized serial 16 cavity connector known in the art as OBD II connector or OBD II port. In some embodiments OBD II port may include auxiliary modules such as an OBD II interpreter chip. In yet other embodiments OBD II port may be substituted with any other communications port.

Sensors may include one or more of an accelerometer detector measuring device or sensing device configured to sense various parameters associated with movement or operation of vehicle . This may include acceleration deceleration speed distances fuel oil temperature voltage and pressure parameters.

Location determining module is configured to determine current geographical location of vehicle . For these ends location determining module may utilize a number of different methods including for example receiving and processing signals of Global Positioning Systems GPS GLONASS satellite navigation systems or the Galileo satellite navigation system utilizing multilateration of radio signals between radio towers base stations or utilizing geolocation methods associated with Internet Protocol IP addresses Media Access Control MAC addresses Radio Frequency Identification RFID or other technologies.

Still referencing to modem is configured to communicate with server system or other networked or web resources through the communications network . In some embodiments modem includes a network interface. Wireless transceiver is configured to communicate with digital signage device using near field communication NFC Bluetooth radio iBeacon radio IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network and so forth.

Operating system may control one or more functionalities of in vehicle telematics device and or components thereof. For example the operating system may interact with applications and services and enable their use of hardware resources. Operating system may include open source real time operating system RTOS enabling a modular application framework. OBD II service provides interfacing technologies and standards such as ELM327 command set extended command set proprietary vendor specific commands over CAN protocol and so forth. Software or middleware implemented applications may execute or facilitate execution of the methods for digital signage as disclosed herein. In particular these applications may provide API Application Programming Interface based communication enabling interaction with digital signage device local or networked services.

As shown in digital signage device includes multiple hardware and software modules. In particular digital signage device includes one or more processors memory one or more storage devices one or more optional output devices modem and wireless transceiver . One or more processors are in some examples configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within the digital signage device . For example the processors may process instructions stored in memory and or instructions stored on storage devices . Such instructions may include components of an operating system communication service application content builder or other software applications .

Memory is configured to store information within digital signage device during operation. Memory in some example embodiments may refer to a non transitory computer readable storage medium or a computer readable storage device. In some examples memory is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of memory may not be long term storage. Memory may also refer to a volatile memory meaning that memory does not maintain stored contents when memory is not receiving power. Examples of volatile memories include RAM DRAM SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art. In some examples memory is used to store program instructions for execution by the processors . Memory in one example is used by software e.g. the operating system such as a software firmware or middleware for implementing the methods for digital signage as described herein.

One or more storage devices can also include one or more transitory or non transitory computer readable storage media and or computer readable storage devices. In some embodiments storage devices may be configured to store greater amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples the storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs solid state discs flash memories forms of EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable memories and other forms of non volatile memories known in the art. For example storage devices may store vehicle telematics data.

Still referencing to digital signage device optionally includes one or more optional output devices configured to provide output to users through visual or auditory channels. Output devices may include a video graphics adapter card liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED monitor sound card speaker or any other device capable of generating output that may be intelligible to a user. In one example output device may include static or digital billboard .

Digital signage device further includes modem implemented as a network interface for communicating with external devices or servers via one or more communications networks such as one or more wired wireless or optical networks including for example the Internet intranet LAN WAN cellular networks an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network among others. The modem may include a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such network interfaces may include Bluetooth 3G 4G and WiFi as well as USB.

Similar to above wireless transceiver is configured to communicate with in vehicle telematics device using near field communication Bluetooth radio iBeacon radio IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network and so forth. In some embodiments wireless transceiver can be separated from other modules of digital signage device but keep the entire functionality substantially the same. In particular digital signage device can be implemented as a web server while wireless transceiver can be located at a gasoline station and be embedded for example in a gasoline station pump. Similarly one or more output devices can be separately located from other modules of digital signage device .

Operating system may control one or more functionalities of digital signage device and or components thereof. For example operating system may interact with applications and may facilitate one or more interactions between them and one or more of processors memory storage devices output devices modem and wireless transceiver . As shown in operating system may interact with or be otherwise coupled to software applications and components thereof. In some embodiments the applications may be included in operating system .

Software implemented applications may execute or facilitate execution of the methods for digital signage as disclosed herein. In particular communication service may provide API enabling interaction with in vehicle telematics device server system local resources networked resources or any other third party web services. For example communication service can be responsible for acquiring vehicle telematics data from in vehicle telematics device upon any predetermined triggering event such as a proximity event.

Content builder is configured to render content and build digital signage messages based on vehicle telematics data predetermined rules and possibly other predetermined or dynamic parameters. Content builder may include multiple sub modules such as recommendation engine data integrator content renderer data acquisition data context manager inventory query service module customer relationship management CRM module among others.

Notably below recited steps of method may be implemented in an order different than described and shown in . Moreover method may have additional steps not shown herein but which can be evident from the present disclosure for those skilled in the art. Method may also have fewer steps than outlined below and shown in .

As shown in method commences at step with digital signage device receiving vehicle telematics data from in vehicle telematics device . As discussed above vehicle telematics data can be acquired automatically upon detection of a proximity event such as when vehicle arrives closer than a predetermined distance from digital signage device or any other triggering event depending on a particular implementation and predetermined settings.

Vehicle telematics data shall include at least one of a user identifier associated with vehicle or a vehicle identifier e.g. VIN number associated with vehicle . In this simple example digital signage device determines a particular vehicle visited a certain location. This data can be used for statistical purposes loyalty programs and conducting financial transactions e.g. payment for purchased gas or other products or services without the need for the user to use cash or credit cards . In some embodiments vehicle telematics data may include additional information such as one or more of the following vehicle make vehicle model vehicle year fuel level fuel type oil level oil type one or more vehicle error codes one or more vehicle malfunction alerts historical data about traveled distances historical data about traveled directions and user preferences.

Further method proceeds to step when digital signage device creates a content production request based at least in part on vehicle telematics data and predetermined rules. The content production request can be then processed locally within the digital signage device and local resources or it can be processed remotely within the server system and remote networked resources or both.

In particular at step digital signage device in response to the content production request retrieves from local resource or remote networked resource context aware information based on the content production request. In some other embodiments however context aware information can be generated before it is retrieved. The generation of context aware information can be based on a content production request one or more content management rules and one or more templates.

Notably a content production request may include at least a part of the vehicle telematics data. This can be as simple as identified vehicle or user identifier or it can be a more complex solution such as one including some operating parameters. Furthermore context aware information may include one or more of vehicle diagnostics information an advertisement promotion coupon discount rebate incentive maintenance recommendation related to vehicle maintenance services and purchase recommendations related to one or more products or one or more services associated with the vehicle.

Further at step digital signage device builds a digital signage message based at least in part on the context aware information and at least one predetermined rule. In particular a digital signage message can be built so as to include text images video audio or multimedia content. Depending on a particular application or predetermined rules or message templates building a digital signage message may include combining context aware information with predetermined text patterns and applying predetermined layout patterns designs configurations and so forth. In some instances building a digital signage message may include incorporation or generation of particular instructions e.g. API codes for a remote server to create and deliver a particular digital signage message to a specific billboard or mobile device .

At step digital signage device causes display of the digital signage message on one or more displays. In particular digital signage device may cause display of the digital signage message on the billboard . In other embodiments however the digital signage message can be displayed on one or more mobile devices .

In some embodiments at step digital signage device can produce two or more digital signage messages. These messages can have the same content or different content. Accordingly at step a first digital signage message can be sent for display on one display and a second digital signage message can be sent for display on another display. In an example the first digital signage message can be displayed on a user s mobile device while the second digital signage message is displayed on a mobile device of service provider. The first digital signage message can differ from the second digital signage message so that the first digital signage message may include advertisement content while the second digital signage message may include vehicle diagnostic data or recommendations for vehicle maintenance.

Accordingly method provides multiple various ways to deliver digital signage messages to a user vehicle owner or vehicle driver entity personnel or other people involving various context aware scenarios. In particular in one example of method it can provide custom advertisement messages to a target audience. Each advertisement message can be unique and reflect the particular potential needs of users. One user may be advised to make a purchase of a specific vehicle oil of particular brand because it can be determined that their oil is to be changed based on acquired vehicle telematics data. Another may be advised to order a particular vehicle maintenance service at local service station because it can be determined that the vehicle operating parameters e.g. engine exhaust parameters temperature malfunction alerts error codes etc. exceed predetermined limit thresholds. Advertisement messages can also be associated with particular locations or entities where digital signage device is located. Thus once vehicle arrives at gasoline station for refueling specific advertisements including digital signage messages can be displayed on vertical billboard located nearby.

Notably below recited steps of method may be implemented in an order different than described and shown in . Moreover method may have additional steps not shown herein but which can be evident for those skilled in the art from present disclosure. Method may also have fewer steps than outlined below and shown in .

As shown in method commences at step with digital signage device receiving vehicle telematics data from in vehicle telematics device . Vehicle telematics data can be acquired automatically upon detection of a proximity event or any other triggering event depending on a particular implementation and predetermined settings.

At step digital signage device creates a content production request based at least in part on vehicle telematics data and predetermined rules. The content production request can then be processed locally within the digital signage device and local resources or it can be processed remotely within the server system and remote networked resources or both.

At step digital signage device or server system maintains multiple user profiles including a user profile associated with the vehicle . Upon receipt of a content production request a user profile can be automatically identified and accessed.

In general user profiles can be proprietary or public. For example in one embodiment user profiles can include merely vehicle operational parameters facilitating monitoring and tracking operational conditions of a vehicle. Accordingly at optional step the user profile can be updated with vehicle telematics data to facilitate tracking of operational parameters.

In other embodiments user profiles can be made public meaning that the user can either create or access his profile via the Internet by visiting a specific website or through a mobile application installed on his mobile device . In this case the user can enhance his user profile by including user preferences setting or adjusting settings or any other characteristics.

Further user profiles can be associated virtually with one or more loyalty programs incentive programs or the like. Loyalty programs can encourage users and reward them for loyal buying behavior. Some loyalty programs can include virtual currency or points that are accumulated every time a user makes a purchase or makes any other predetermined action. Points can be later used by users for purchasing goods or services.

Accordingly each user profile may include or be associated with a loyalty account storing virtual points. In this case at step digital signage device or server system updates the loyalty account associated with the user profile based on vehicle telematics data or the content production request generated at step .

Thus method allows for engaging customers in loyalty programs which automatically increase loyalty points based on proximity events vehicle telematics data or a content production request. For example when a digital signage device determines a particular user arriving on his vehicle to a particular parking lot this event can be sufficient to add a predetermined number of loyalty points to his account.

In other examples upon detection of a proximity event as discussed above the digital signage device can send a predetermined message to a server system or particular web resource such as a CRM service. This web service may run a loyalty or marketing campaign causing web resources or digital signage devices to communicate with the user via digital signage messages. In this example digital signage messages may include promotional coupons or codes or discount offers to encourage these users to make a particular purchase decision either at a local entity gasoline station drive in restaurant etc. or online.

Still referencing to method may include additional steps as discussed above with reference to . These additional steps may include retrieving generating context aware information building generating digital signage messages based at least in part on context aware information user profiles and predetermined rules and causing display of digital signage messages on one or more displays. It shall be appreciated by those skilled in the art that some steps of method and method can be combined together.

Notably below recited steps of method may be implemented in an order different than described and shown in . Moreover method may have additional steps not shown herein but which can be evident from the present disclosure for those skilled in the art. Method may also have fewer steps than outlined below and shown in .

Now with reference to method commences at step with digital signage device receiving vehicle telematics data from in vehicle telematics device . Vehicle telematics data can be acquired automatically upon detection of a proximity event or any other triggering event depending on a particular implementation and predetermined settings.

At step digital signage device creates a transaction request based at least in part on vehicle telematics data and predetermined rules. The request can be then processed locally within the digital signage device and local resources or it can be processed remotely within the server system and remote networked resources or both.

At step digital signage device or server system maintains multiple user profiles including a user profile associated with the vehicle . Upon receipt of request a user profile can be automatically identified and accessed.

In this example embodiment a user profile may be associated with a financial account of the user. For these ends the user i.e. vehicle driver or vehicle owner needs to have a user profile associated with a payment account or credit card. For example the user profile may include credit card details or other financial related information and user authorizations enabling financial transactions utilizing the user s debit and credit cards. Accordingly at step digital signage device or server system causes execution of a financial transaction with monetary or non monetary funds of the user based on vehicle telematics data or the transaction request.

Thus method allows for making automated financial transactions upon detection of proximity event and vehicle telematics data. Upon detection of a proximity event vehicle telematics data can be used to generate a particular request that triggers making a particular financial transaction. The financial transaction may also depend on predetermined parameters such as a schedule of fees identification of purchased goods or services amount of purchased goods or services and so forth. For example when a user arrives at a parking lot entrance a proximity event can be detected a digital signage device will acquire vehicle telematics data and based on this information the digital signage device will automatically debit the user s credit card with a parking service fee. Similarly when the user arrives at a gasoline station and purchases fuel for the vehicle the digital signage device may automatically debit the user s credit card with a corresponding amount.

Notably method may include additional steps as discussed above with reference to . These additional steps may include retrieving generating context aware information building generating digital signage messages based at least in part on context aware information user profiles and predetermined rules and causing display of digital signage messages on one or more displays. It shall be appreciated by those skilled in the art that some steps of method method and method can be combined together.

In yet further embodiments digital signage methods discussed herein can be further used for collecting statistical information. This statistical information may include information on purchase decisions as well as time and date of visits or purchases. Accordingly this statistical information can be helpful for evaluating product ratings and popularity parameters which can be location aware and or attached to statistics about specific vehicle models. For example end users will see that this specific liquid or vehicle part from the e commerce catalog has that specific rating in that specific location.

Thus systems and methods for digital signage have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes can be made to these example embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present application. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

