---

title: High durability solar absorptive coating and methods for making same
abstract: The present invention relates to solar absorptive coatings including a ceramic material. In particular, the coatings of the invention are laser-treated to further enhance the solar absorptivity of the material. Methods of making and using such materials are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09499699&OS=09499699&RS=09499699
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09499699
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150226
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 945 407 filed Feb. 27 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to high durability solar absorptive coatings as well as methods of making such coatings. In particular the coatings include a ceramic oxide that is laser treated to form a solar absorptive nanostructure. Methods of making and using such coatings are also described.

Concentrating solar power CSP systems represent a zero emission method to convert sunlight into electricity. Generally CSP systems use an array of mirrors to heat a working fluid by concentrating sunlight on the surface of a heat exchanger. These heat exchangers require durable surfaces capable of extended operation in air at temperatures in excess of 700 C. with high absorptivity and low emissivity in the solar spectrum.

Furthermore a CSP receiver surface will experience daily thermal cycles as the sun rises and sets. Abrupt temperature changes will occur as clouds transit the mirror array. The receiver surface will be exposed to air wind dirt and precipitation year around. Economical operation of the CSP system requires that the CSP receiver surface properties remain stable for the heat exchanger s lifetime 30 years . Pyromark 2500 a leading solar absorptive coating exhibits high solar absorptivity but has limited durability as it is based on an organic resin. Accordingly there is a need for materials capable of functioning at high operating temperatures e.g. more than 700 C. and forming durable coatings.

The present invention relates to durable coatings having high solar absorptivity. In particular the coating includes a laser treated material e.g. ceramic material . Herein characterization of thermal sprayed chrome oxide CrO and lanthanum strontium manganite LSM coatings modified using a laser surface treatment is discussed. Laser surface treatment was used to improve both coatings solar performance. In particular embodiments laser treated chrome oxide coatings exhibited a figure of merit of 0.889 and laser treated lanthanum strontium manganite coatings exhibit a figure of merit of 0.892. This is significant because these figures of merit are similar to Pyromark 2500 FOM 0.89 the leading solar absorptive coating. Because chrome oxide and lanthanum strontium manganite are both a high temperature ceramic CrOT 2435 C. LSM T 1000 C. they are expected to be significantly more durable at high temperature than organic based Pyromark 2500. These data strongly suggest that laser treated ceramic coatings have high potential for concentrating solar power systems.

Furthermore without wishing to be limited by mechanism analysis of the coating surfaces shows that laser treatment created unique nanostructures on each surface. These nanostructures are significantly smaller than the wavelength of light in the solar spectrum and could easily scatter photons resulting in improved solar absorption.

Accordingly the invention features a method of forming a solar absorptive coating on a surface the method including applying a material e.g. a ceramic material to the surface to form a coated surface and treating the coated surface with a pulsed laser source thereby forming the solar absorptive coating on the surface.

In some embodiments the method includes curing the ceramic material on the coated surface e.g. where the curing step occurs prior to the treating step .

In some embodiments the method includes re treating the solar absorptive coating with a pulsed laser source e.g. where the re treating step occurs after the treating step . In further embodiments this re treating step is performed periodically e.g. every month every 3 months every 6 months every year every two years every five years etc. .

In some embodiments the ceramic material is a ceramic oxide a dielectric or a cermet e.g. any described herein . Exemplary ceramic materials include a ceramic oxide such as a chromium oxide lanthanum based perovskite manganese cobalt oxide silicon oxide cerium oxide zinc oxide aluminum oxide magnesium oxide titanium oxide strontium oxide zirconium oxide hafnium oxide vanadium oxide nickel oxide and indium oxide optionally including one or more dopants e.g. Sr Mg Ca Ba Ni Ru silicate Ga etc. a material having a perovskite structure e.g. any described herein a dielectric a cermet such as an alumina based cermet a magnesium zirconate based cermet a magnesium oxide based cermet e.g. Au MgO a chromium oxide based cermet e.g. Cr CrOor Mo CrO a nickel based cermet e.g. Ni ZnS also known as black nickel Ni NiO or Ni MgF a cobalt based cermet e.g. Co CoO a molybdenum based cermet e.g. Mo MoOor Mo AlN a tungsten based cermet e.g. W WOor W AlN a titanium based cermet e.g. TiNO and composites or blends of any of these.

In some embodiments the solar absorptive coating has a solar absorptance of greater than about 0.9 e.g. greater than about 0.91 0.92 0.93 0.94 0.95 0.96 0.97 0.98 or greater . In other embodiments the solar absorptive coating is a high temperature solar selective coating e.g. a coating capable of functioning at temperatures of more than 700 C. .

In some embodiments the solar absorptive coating includes a plurality of microstructures and or a plurality of nanostructures. Exemplary microstructures and nanostructures include trenches e.g. having a width of from about 5 m to about 30 m e.g. from 5 m to about 20 m such as about 10 m and or a spacing between two trenches of from about 20 m to about 70 m e.g. 20 m to 50 m such as about 30 m one or more redeposition layer e.g. disposed on one or more trenches having any useful thickness such as about 0.5 m to 2 m columnar structures e.g. having a spacing between two columns of from about 50 nm to about 750 nm e.g. from 100 nm to 500 nm such as about 250 nm a surface roughness greater than 3 m e.g. from 3 m to about 5 m and or fine substructures e.g. having a dimension that is less than 10 nm such as of from about 1 nm to about 8 nm disposed on any useful surface such as on a columnar structure . In particular embodiments the coating includes both microstructures and nanostructures thereby providing a surface encompassing multi length scales in order to effectively interact within incoming photons e.g. and resulting in effective solar absorption such as e.g. that determined by a solar absorptance greater than about 0.9 .

In some embodiments the pulsed laser source has a pulse width from about 100 fs to about 1000 ns e.g. from about 1 ns to 500 ns 1 ns to 400 ns 1 ns to 300 ns 50 ns to 500 ns 50 ns to 400 ns 50 ns to 300 ns 100 ns to 500 ns 100 ns to 400 ns or 100 ns to 300 ns .

In other embodiments the pulsed laser source has a wavelength from about 700 nm to about 1200 nm e.g. about 750 nm 800 nm 850 nm 900 nm or 1000 nm .

In yet other embodiments the pulsed laser source has a pulse energy more than about 1 mJ e.g. from about 1 mJ to about 100 mJ .

In some embodiments the pulsed laser source has an average power of more than about 2 watts e.g. from about 2 watts to about 1000 watts . In another instance the applied power is about 1 mW to about 20 mW .

In some embodiments the pulsed laser source has a repetition rate of between about 1 kHz to about 500 kHz e.g. from about 1 kHz to 100 kHz 1 kHz to 200 kHz 1 kHz to 300 kHz 1 kHz to 400 kHz 10 kHz to 100 kHz 10 kHz to 200 kHz 10 kHz to 300 kHz 10 kHz to 400 kHz 10 kHz to 500 kHz 15 kHz to 100 kHz 15 kHz to 200 kHz 15 kHz to 300 kHz 15 kHz to 400 kHz 15 kHz to 500 kHz 20 kHz to 100 kHz 20 kHz to 200 kHz 20 kHz to 300 kHz 20 kHz to 400 kHz or 20 kHz to 500 kHz .

In particular embodiments the pulsed energy source is a nanosecond laser. For instance the nanosecond laser can have a pulse duration of between about 1 ns to about 400 ns a wavelength of about 1064 nm an average power of more than about 2 watts e.g. more than about 20 watts a repetition rate of about 15 kHz to about 300 kHz and or a beam diameter of from about 10 m to about 100 m.

In other embodiments the pulsed energy source is a femtosecond laser. For instance the femtosecond laser can have a pulse energy of more than about 1 mJ a repetition rate of between about 1 kHz to about 100 kHz an applied power of from about 5 mW to about 10 mW and or a wavelength of about 800 nm.

In some embodiments the surface is a substrate for absorption of solar energy e.g. a CSP receiver a solar tower a trough a Stirling engine a heat absorber a solar collector or any useful substrate such as any described herein or a portion thereof .

In another aspect the invention features a solar absorptive coating formed by any method described herein.

As used herein the term about means 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

The term ceramic material usually refers to an inorganic essentially non metallic protective coating on a substrate e.g. a metal substrate suitable for use at or above about 500 C. However the term ceramics both with regard to a ceramic filler and the ceramic coating of this invention includes all engineering materials or products that are chemically inorganic e.g. except metals and metal alloys and also includes composites such as ceramic metal combinations and other combinations of ceramic materials involving organic filler materials.

By micro is meant having at least one dimension that is less than 1 mm. For instance a microstructure e.g. any structure described herein can have a length width height cross sectional dimension circumference radius e.g. external or internal radius or diameter that is less than 1 mm.

By nano is meant having at least one dimension that is less than 1 m. For instance a nanostructure e.g. any structure described herein can have a length width height cross sectional dimension circumference radius e.g. external or internal radius or diameter that is less than 1 m.

As used herein the terms top bottom upper lower above and below are used to provide a relative relationship between structures. The use of these terms does not indicate or require that a particular structure must be located at a particular location in the apparatus.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

The present invention relates to solar absorptive coatings as well methods of making and using such coatings. Such coatings methods and uses are described herein.

Generally the solar absorptive coatings of the invention include a ceramic material e.g. any described herein . Upon treatment with a pulsed laser source the ceramic material undergoes substantial darkening and displays increased solar absorptivity as compared to a surface without laser treatment. Without wishing to be limited by mechanism this resultant increase in solar absorptivity likely arises from the creation of nanostructures on the treated surface. Such nanostructures have dimensions smaller than the wavelength of light in the solar spectrum e.g. about 250 2500 nm and likely promote photon scattering at the surface.

The coatings of the invention can be directed applied to a substrate of interest. Alternatively the coating can be integrated as a component of a multilayered coating. Exemplary layers in a multilayer coating include a thermal expansion management layer a protective layer e.g. an AlOlayer an absorber layer a roughening template layer a reflector layer a high metal volume fraction HMVF layer a low metal volume fraction LMVF layer a dielectric layer an anti reflective layer etc. In particular embodiments the solar absorptive coating of the invention is included in the absorber layer of a multilayered coating or any layer described herein. In another example the multilayered coating can include one or more of the following layers configured to provide a gradual variation in refractive index thereby providing efficient absorption by phase interference a reflector layer e.g. an infrared reflective mirror layer such as a Cu or Mo layer an HMVF layer e.g. a HMVF ceramic metal composition or cermet layer a LMVF layer e.g. a LMVF cermet layer and or an anti reflective layer e.g. an SiOlayer . In some embodiments the HMVF layer LMVF layer and or anti reflective layer include the solar absorptive coating of the invention.

Methods of testing such coatings are described in Kennedy C E et al. Progress in development of high temperature solar selective coating 2005 2005 International Solar Energy Conference Aug. 6 12 2005 Orlando Fla. USA 7 pages Kussmaul M et al. Ion beam treatment of potential space materials at the NASA Lewis Research Center 1992 April 51 1 3 299 306 Tsukamoto M et al. Periodic microstructures produced by femtosecond laser irradiation on titanium plate 2006 80 1346 50 and Nejati M Cermet based solar selective absorbers further selectivity improvement and developing new fabrication technique Dr. Ing. Dissertation for the Universitat des Saarlandes 2008 190 pages each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention includes methods of making solar absorptive coatings as well as applying such coatings to structures or substrates and integrating such coatings as components of a multilayered coating.

In general the coatings of the invention are made by applying a ceramic material e.g. any described herein such as a ceramic oxide to a surface optionally curing the applied ceramic material to form a coated surface and then treating the coated surface with a laser source.

The ceramic material can be applied by any useful method such as thermal spraying e.g. air plasma spraying dip coating spin coating roll coating spray coating physical vapor deposition chemical vapor deposition electrodeposition electroless deposition anodization chemical conversion sol gel deposition spray pyrolysis sputtering e.g. radiofrequency planar sputtering direct current sputtering triode sputtering reactive sputtering glow discharge sputtering and magnetron sputtering evaporation e.g. cathodic arc evaporation ion plating annealing photolithography e beam lithography holography embossing and laser patterning. Optionally the ceramic material can be cured hardened or annealed.

The coated surface having the ceramic material is then treated with a laser source. In some embodiments the laser source is a pulsed laser source. In particular for some surfaces we have observed that a nanosecond laser provided enhanced reduction in reflectance as compared to a femtosecond laser. In addition nanosecond laser treatment provides other benefits such as increased translation speed of the laser beam reduced treatment time and lower cost as compared to the femtosecond laser treatment. The laser source can have any useful characteristics such as optimized laser wavelength e.g. 1064 nm 800 nm etc. laser pulse frequency e.g. 1 kHz 50 kHz etc. laser pulse width e.g. 100 fs 200 ns etc. pulse repetition rate power power density fluence scan rate scan pattern beam spot size etc. Exemplary laser sources include a pulsed fiber nanosecond laser an infrared laser a Ti sapphire laser etc. The laser source can be used with any other component s to facilitate treatment such as an energy attenuator a shutter a filter a lens a mirror a scanning head etc.

For general use laser treatment can occur in ambient air conditions. Optionally laser treatment can be conducted in laboratory conditions such as with controlled pressure under vacuum.

Multicomponent coatings can also be made such as those forming multilayered coatings graded coatings or blended coatings. Methods for making such multicomponent coatings include blending one or more materials into a single feedstock or an agglomerated powder pre alloying materials to form a single block fusing multiple layers as well as other deposition methods described herein such as spray drying.

Additional methods of making and testing coatings are described in Selvakumar N et al. Review of physical vapor deposited PVD spectrally selective coatings for mid and high temperature solar thermal applications 2012 November 98 1 23 and Zhang Q C Recent progress in high temperature solar selective coatings 2000 62 63 74 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The solar absorptive coating can include any useful material e.g. ceramic materials that displays increased solar absorptivity upon treatment with a pulsed laser source.

The material can be a ceramic material such as a ceramic oxide a dielectric or a cermet. In some embodiments the material is a ceramic oxide. Exemplary ceramic oxides include chromium oxide such as CrO CrO xTiO e.g. where x is 2 40 nominal wt. nom. wt. such as x is 40 nom. wt. CrO xSiO yTiO e.g. where x is 4 5 nom. wt. and y is 3 nom. wt. lanthanum based perovskites such as lanthanum strontium manganite e.g. LaSrMnO such as LaSr MnO where x is 0.8 to 1 e.g. x is 0.98 or LaSrMnO where y z 1 lanthanum strontium chromite e.g. LaSrCrO such as LaSrCrOor where x y 1 lanthanum calcium manganite e.g. LaCaMnO such as LaCaMnOor where x y 1 lanthanum strontium ferrite e.g. LaSrFeO such as LaSrFeOor where x y 1 lanthanum strontium cobaltite ferrite e.g. LaSrCoFeO such as LaSrCoFeOor LaSrCoFeO where subscripts refer to mol. and lanthanum strontium gallate magnesite e.g. LaSrGaMgO manganese cobalt oxide such as MnCoO silicon oxide such as SiO cerium oxide such as CeO zinc oxide such as ZnO aluminum oxide e.g. AlO AlO xTiO e.g. where x is 2 50 nom. wt. such as x is 3 13 or 40 nom. wt. AlO xTiO ySiO zZrO e.g. where x is 32 y is 8.5 and z is 3 AlO xSiO e.g. where x is 8 25 AlO xMgO e.g. where x is 24 and AlO xZrO e.g. where x is 23 magnesium oxide such as MgO titanium oxide such as TiO e.g. where x is 1.7 1.8 1.9 or 2 BaTiO or TiO xCrO e.g. where x is 45 nom. wt. strontium oxide such as SrO zirconium oxide such as ZrOor stabilized ZrOincluding ZrO xYO e.g. where x is 7 25 nom. wt. ZrO xYO yHfO e.g. where x is 7.5 and y is 1.8 ZrO xCeO e.g. where x is 25 nom. wt. ZrO xCeO yHfO e.g. where x is 21 nom. wt. and y is 1.5 nom. wt. ZrO xCeO yYO e.g. where x is 25 nom. wt. and y is 2.5 nom. wt. ZrO xTiO yYO e.g. where x is 18 nom. wt. and y is 10 nom. wt. ZrO xCaO e.g. where x is 5 24 nom. wt. ZrO 9.5YO 5.6YbO 5.2GdO and ZrO xMgO e.g. where x is 5 24 nom. wt. hafnium oxide such as HfO vanadium oxide such as VO nickel oxide such as NiO and indium oxide such as InOor InO 10SnO.

Such ceramic oxides can optionally include one or more dopants e.g. Sr and or can optionally be alloyed e.g. with SiOand or TiOto improved toughness and mechanical shock resistance . Commercially available ceramic oxides and mixed forms thereof include those available from Sulzer Metco Inc. Westbury N.Y. under the trade names Metco Saint Gobain Ceramics and Plastics Inc. Worcester Mass. and Bay State Surface Technologies Auburn Mass.

In particular embodiments the ceramic material has a perovskite structure such as ABO where A is Ca La Sr or Ba B is Co Cr Mn Fe Ti or Al and optionally including one or more dopants e.g. Sr Mg Ca Ba Ni Ru silicate Ag or Ga . Another exemplary perovskite structure includes AA BO wherein each A and A is differently and independently selected from the group of Ca La Sr Mg and Ba and B is Co Cr Mn Fe Ti or Al. Exemplary perovskite materials include LaMnO LaSrMnO LaBaMnO LaCaMnO LaMgMnO SrMnO LaCoO LaSrCoO LaBaCoO LaCaCoO LaMgCoO and SrCoO.

In some embodiments the material is a dielectric such as AlO SiO CeO AN ZrO ZnS as well as any ceramic or cermet material described herein.

In other embodiments the material is a composite material including metal particles in a matrix of a ceramic material i.e. a cermet . Exemplary cermets include an alumina based cermet having AlOas the ceramic material such as Ni AlO e.g. AlO 30 Ni20Al which is a 29 31 wt. Ni20Al chemically clad nickel aluminum Ni 20 Al powder in a fused and crushed aluminum oxide ceramic material available as Metco 41 ONS from Sulzer Metco Inc. Co AlCO Cr AlCO V AlCO Ag AlO Mo AlO Cu AlO W AlO Pt AlO and Au AlO a magnesium zirconate based cermet such a MgZrO 35NiCr or MgZrO 26Ni7Cr2Al which is a 34 36 nom. wt. nickel chromium or nickel chromium aluminum powder in a magnesium zirconate ceramic material available as Metco 303NS 1 and Metco 441NS 1 from Sulzer Metco Inc. Au MgO Cr CrO also known as black chrome Mo CrO Ni ZnS also known as black nickel Ni NiO Ni MgF Co CoO also known as black cobalt Mo MoO also known as black moly W WO also known as black tungsten TiNO Mo AlN W AlN or graded composites thereof.

The material can also include one or more intrinsic absorbers which are materials that intrinsically display solar selective properties. Exemplary intrinsic absorbers include metals e.g. metallic W or doped metals such as MoO doped Mo silicon e.g. Si doped with B fluorides e.g. CaF carbides e.g. HfC borides e.g. ZrBor LaB or oxides e.g. SnO InO EuO ReO and VO .

In yet other embodiments the material is a carbide such as titanium carbide e.g. TiC silicon carbide e.g. SiC boron carbide e.g. BC chromium carbide e.g. CrC CrC x Ni 20Cr e.g. where x is 7 50 and CrC x NiCrAlY e.g. where x is 25 vanadium carbide e.g. VC tungsten carbide e.g. WC WC WC xCo yCr e.g. where x is 10 20 and y is 0 4 WC WC xCo e.g. where x is 12 WC 12Co 25 Ni base super alloy and WC 12Co 35 CrC 20 Ni 20Cr hafnium carbide e.g. HfC or tantalum carbide e.g. TaC a nitride such as titanium nitride e.g. TiN a silicide such as molybdenum silicide e.g. MoSi a boride such as hafnium boride e.g. HfB or zirconium boride e.g. ZrB a refractory metal e.g. W Ta Mo or Nb a metal spinel oxide e.g. ABO where A B Ni Co Fe or Cu as well as mixtures thereof.

The ceramic materials can be included in any useful base such as a resin e.g. polyethylene polyester or polypropylene to form a paint. The physical characteristics of the ceramic material can be optimized for application to the surface. Such characteristics include particle size degree of dispersion volume fraction scattering properties wetting properties etc. Exemplary paints and ceramic materials are described in Wijewardane S et al. A review on surface control of thermal radiation by paints and coatings for new energy applications 2012 16 1863 73 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

One or more of the following can be included to improve material processing or material properties such as one or more additives such as a detergent e.g. Triton X such as to improve wetting binders e.g. polyvinyl alcohol pigments such as manganese ferrite black spinel e.g. FeMnO resins and stabilizers e.g. TiO.

Further materials are provided in Ambrosini A et al. Improved high temperature solar absorbers for use in concentrating solar power central receiver applications 2010 7080 October 2010 43 pages and Kennedy C E Review of mid to high temperature solar selective absorber materials 520 31267 July 2002 58 pages each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention also includes use of the solar absorptive coating on one or more substrates and structures that would benefit from increased solar absorptivity. Such structures include those useful for solar collectors such as solar absorption coatings on flat plate collectors evacuated tube collectors concentrating collectors solar towers receivers 

Concentrating solar power CSP systems employ solar absorbers to convert collected sunlight into electric power. In general a CSP employs mirrors to focus sunlight onto a receiver which is configured to capture the collected light and convert this light into heat. For example in a power tower system mirrors heliostats are arranged to focus light onto a receiver that is mounted atop of a tall power tower. In the receiver the heat is absorbed by a fluid or a molten material e.g. molten salts such as nitrate salts and then used to boil water into steam which in turn is conveyed to a steam turbine generator to produce electricity. In another example a dish system includes a parabolic dish that concentrates sunlight to a receiver which is mounted at the focal point of the dish. In this integrated assembly the receiver includes a combustion engine having gas tubes that can be heated by the concentrated sunlight which results in gas expansion to drive the piston crankshaft and electric generator connected to the engine. In yet another example a trough system employs a parabolic U shaped reflector having a receiver mounted along the focal point of the reflector. The receiver e.g. a hear collection element is generally a tube coated with a solar absorptive coating. Within the tube a fluid e.g. an oil absorbs heat which in turn is used to boil water form steam and drive a steam turbine generator. In any of these systems the receiver or any other surface can include one or more solar absorptive coatings of the invention to promote light adsorption.

In CSP systems efficiency can be increased by improving the efficiency of solar collectors increasing operating temperatures and or increasing power cycle efficiency. In one embodiment efficiency can be increased by including one or more solar absorptive coatings on a solar receiver or the heat collection element of CSPs thereby increasing the current operation limit to 400 C. In particular embodiments the coating is thermally stable above about 500 C. in air. In some embodiments the coating has high spectral selectivity such as high absorptance in the solar spectrum e.g. 2.5 m . In other embodiments the coating has a low reflectance p at wavelength 2 m e.g. 0 a high reflectance at 2 m e.g. 1 a high solar absorptance a at wavelength 2 m e.g. 0.96 and or a low thermal emittance e.g. 0.07 at 400 C. in the infrared region 2 m .

The solar absorptive coatings of the invention can be renewed after its first application. For instance CSP systems generally have a long lifetime e.g. over 30 years . In addition these systems encounter daily thermal cycling. Over the years various factors can contribute to degradation of the solar absorptive coating such as high thermal load high water condensation and environmental exposure to sun heat debris and wind. Thus renewable surfaces would be beneficial. The present invention also allows for renewing a coating by treating the surface with a laser after the first application of the coating. Accordingly the present invention also includes methods of renewing a coated surface by treating the surface with a laser source. The coated surface can include any coating such as Pyromark 2500 a high temperature silicone based paint including manganese ferrite black spinel as the black pigment available from LA CO Indus. Inc. Elk Grove Village Ill. or any coating described herein e.g. the solar absorptive coating of the invention .

The solar absorptive coating of the invention can be applied to any useful surface of a substrate. Exemplary substrates include a surface for absorption of solar energy such as surfaces on CSP receivers solar towers troughs Stirling engines heat absorbers and solar collectors a metal substrate such as stainless steel carbon steel austenitic superalloys Ni Cr based superalloys e.g. Inconel 600 601 and 690 from Special Metals Corp. New Hartford N.Y. Ni Cr Al based alloys such as Inconel 693 Ni Cr W based alloys including Co Ni Cr W alloys and Ni Cr W Mo alloys such as Haynes 25 188 and 230 from Haynes Int l Inc. Kokomo Ind. Fe Ni Co Cr based alloys such as Haynes 556 Ni Cr Mo Nb based alloys such as Inconel 725 and Haynes 625 Fe Ni Cr based alloys such as Inconel 706 and Haynes HR 120 Ni Cr Mo based alloys such as Inconel 625 625LFC and Ni Cr Co Mo based Inconel 617 as well as Hastelloy S from Haynes Intl Inc. Ni Co Cr Si based alloys such as Haynes HR 160 and Ni Fe Cr Mo based alloys such as Hastelloy X and a substrate undergoing thermal cycles having an upper range of 300 800 C. or higher.

The solar absorptive coating can be applied directly or indirectly onto the substrate. For direct application the coating is in contact with the surface of the substrate. For indirect application the coating can be a component of a multilayered coating stack such that the solar absorptive coating of the invention is embedded within the multilayered stack or located on the top surface of the multilayered stack. In addition one or more interleaving layers or structures can be present between the solar absorptive coating and the surface of the substrate. Exemplary interleaving layers include a roughening template layer a reflector layer an anti reflective layer etc.

The present invention relates to solar absorptive coatings formed by laser treatment. Here we compare treatment with a femtosecond laser and a nanosecond laser. Results of these experiments are provided in .

The femtosecond laser treated sample shown in was treated using an 800 nm Spectra Physics laser capable of 100 Femtosecond pulsed output at 1 khz pulse frequency. The laser was operated at the following conditions 16 mW laser power 1 kHz pulse rate 1 mm s traverse rate 5 objective lens and a 0.010 mm 0.010 mm raster pattern. The laser treatment was conducted in an evacuated chamber at pressures ranging from 500 mTorr 6 Torr.

In an effort to reduce the time required for laser treatment a nanosecond laser equipped with an optical scanning head was used. The femtosecond laser used herein had a fixed beam path and was not equipped with an optical scanning head. Laser beam translation was accomplished by moving the sample using a high precision mechanical stage. Thus the maximum laser traverse speed was limited by the maximum speed of mechanical stage 1 mm s . In contrast the nanosecond laser included a scanning head which allowed the laser s focal point to be moved optically while the substrate remains fixed. This greatly increased the translation speed of the laser beam e.g. data are shown for a nanosecond laser having a translation speed of 50 mm s thus reducing the time required for laser treatment.

For nanosecond laser treatment an SPI G3 pulsed fiber nanosecond laser with a beam expander set at 8 attached to Nutfield XLR8 scan head was used to laser treat a CrOsample. A LINOS f163 lens was used to focus the beam on sample. The laser treatment parameters used were laser power of 5 W commanded beam translation speed of 50 mm s laser pulse frequency of 50 kHz laser pulse width of 200 ns a serpentine raster raster step size of 40 m and an incident beam spot size of 50 m. Faster translation speeds are possible when employing an optical scanning head.

Treatment with the femtosecond or nanosecond laser was successful in darkening the CrOsample. Furthermore the CrOregion treated with the nanosecond laser appeared to be darker than the CrOregion treated with the femtosecond laser . Reflectance measurements confirm this observation . Under these conditions nanosecond laser treatment was faster than femtosecond laser treatment and provided better results. It is important to note that darkening mechanism associated with nanosecond laser treatment may be different than the darkening mechanism associated with femtosecond laser treatment.

Nanosecond laser treatment has other benefits such as reduced cost. Regardless of traverse speed nanosecond laser treatment will be less costly than femtosecond laser treatment because nanosecond lasers are significantly less expensive than femtosecond lasers. The SPI G3 nanosecond laser used above costs about ten times less than the femtosecond laser. Lower cost equipment that accomplishes laser treatment significantly faster will undoubtedly result in lower laser treatment cost.

Analysis of plasma sprayed CrOand LSM coatings modified using laser surface treatment are discussed. Both laser treated coatings exhibited solar absorptivity figures of merit similar to Pyromark 2500 the industry standard SPT receiver coating. Identifying the mechanism for the high figure of merit is critical to successfully evaluating the coating s long term high temperature performance.

Thermal spray coating processes prepare thick 25 microns metal and ceramic coatings via droplet deposition. A feed stock material typically powder is melted and propelled toward the substrate. When the feed stock droplets impact they deform solidify and build a coating. Unlike other coating technologies thermal spray processes allow rapid coating of large substrates without a vacuum chamber.

Just as many different welding process exist e.g. laser welding electron beam welding and shielded metal arc welding many different thermal spray processes exist. All coatings discussed in this example were prepared using the Air Plasma Spray APS process. The APS process melts and propels feed stock using an inert gas plasma. When the feed stock droplets impact the substrate they deform solidify and consolidate to form a lamellar coating. Air plasma spray torches can effectively work high melting point materials because the plasma is an extremely high temperature heat source 10 000 C. Air plasma spray torches are relatively portable and can coat large substrates in the field.

Chrome oxide is a common plasma spray coating. Chrome oxide melts at 2435 C. 4415 F. . Also it is extremely stable thermally extremely hard and insoluble in water acids and alkalis. Plasma sprayed CrOis dark green to black in color. It finds application as a high temperature wear resistant surface for pumps and impeller housing. Chrome oxide coatings are also commonly used as the laser engravable surface for Anilox printing rolls Sulzer Metco Technical Bulletin 10 658 AMDRY 6420 Chromium Oxide Powder For Wear Resistant Coatings October 2000 . Plasma sprayed chrome oxide coatings are used at service temperatures of 815 C. 1500 F. or higher.

Lanthanum Strontium Manganite LSM is a single phase perovskite ceramic material. It is also commonly plasma sprayed and finds application as an electrolyte for Yittria Stabilized Zirconia YSZ based solid oxide fuel cells Sulzer Metco Material Product Data Sheet for Lanthanum Strontium Manganite LSM Powder DSMTS 0024.2 2012 . In this application LSM coatings are routinely used at service temperatures up to 800 C. 1475 F. . Lanthanum Strontium Manganite is actually a family of perovskite materials with various specific compositions. Most LSM s exhibit melting points in excess of 1000 C. Jiang S P Development of lanthanum strontium manganite perovskite cathode materials of solid oxide fuel cells a review J. Mater. Sci. 2008 November 43 21 6799 833 . The LSM investigated here was LaSr MnO.

Coating preparation All coatings were prepared using a TriplexPro 210 air plasma spray torch Sulzer Metco Inc. Westbury N.Y. . The torch was mounted on an ABB IRB 6600 six axis robot which controlled the spray path. Commercially available feed stock powders optimized for thermal spray were used. Table 1 below identifies the feed stock powder and provides the exact torch operating conditions used to prepare both the CrOand Lanthanum Strontium Manganite LSM coatings.

The CrOfeed stock powder had a fused and crushed morphology and is not expected to break during feeding. Energy dispersive spectroscopy EDS analysis confirmed the presence of Ti Si and Zr impurities.

Laser surface treatment After spraying both coatings were treated with a Femtosecond laser with the intention of increasing their roughness. Other surfaces have shown increased absorptivity when roughened Brown R J C et al. The physical and chemical properties of electroless nickel phosphorus alloys and low reflectance nickel phosphorus black surfaces . Mater. Chem. 2002 12 2749 54 . Laser treatment was conducted using an 800 nm Spectra Physics laser capable of 100 femtosecond pulsed output at 1 kHz pulse frequency. Three laser treatment conditions were used as indicated in Table 2 below. Laser treatment was conducted in an evacuated chamber at pressures ranging from 500 mTorr 6 Torr although laser treatment can be conducted in air. A vacuum chamber was used because it protects personnel from any material that could evolve from the coating surface during laser treatment.

X ray diffraction analysis Micro X ray Diffraction XRD was employed because of the small sample size. In this way a spatially specific analysis could be performed. XRD data were collected using a Bruker D8 diffractometer with GADDS Hi Star area detector and a eulerian texture cradle equipped with an XYZ translation stage Bruker AXS Inc. Madison Wis. . The D8 system employed a sealed tube Cu K X ray source with an incident beam mirror optic for removal of K radiation . A 500 m pinhole snout was used as an incident beam optic to generate a small collimated beam suitable for XRD analysis. Area detector frames were collected at two positions of 20 selected such that the 1D 2 scans obtained by integration of a portion of the area detector frame would overlap. The count time for each frame was 300 seconds. 1D scans were integrated within the GADDS software and merged and analyzed within the program JADE ver.9.4.1 Materials Data Inc. Livermore Calif. .

Surface roughness analysis All surface roughness data were collected using a Model Wyko NT1100 Scanning White Light Interferometer manufactured by Veeco Instruments Inc. Plainview N.Y. The instrument was operated in vertical scanning mode 100 micron scan at 50.3 effective magnification. The field of view at 50.3 magnification was 126 microns by 94 microns. All analysis was conducted using Vision 3D Analysis Software Bruker Corporation Tucson Ariz. Because the Wyko is an interferometric measurement instrument that relies on capturing light scattered from the sample measurement error is introduced by high angle surfaces that do not scatter light efficiently into the optical system. In practice the Wyko measurement error increases as more high aspect ratio features are present on a surface.

Scanning electron microscopy and EDS analysis A Carl Zeiss Supra 55VP Scanning Electron Microscope was used to image both the as sprayed and laser treated CrO. The microscope was operated at 5 kEv and a working distance of 7.5 mm with varying magnification. Images were obtained using secondary SE2 and backscatter BSC detection. Energy Dispersive X ray Spectroscopy EDS was conducted using an Oxford X Max detector and AZtec software. The CrOsample was not coated prior to SEM imaging as is common for insulating samples.

Focus ion beam analysis An FEI Helios dual platform focused ion beam FIB tool equipped with both a Ga ion column and a scanning electron microscope column was used to produce cross sections of the sample normal to the deposition surface for both SEM imaging with energy dispersive x ray spectrometry EDS and TEM imaging with EDS. Localized Platinum deposition was used to protect the surface of the sample from direct ion beam irradiation. SEM samples were prepared of selected areas by milling trenches normal to the deposition surface. The sample was then imaged and EDS was performed directly from the ion milled surface. Thin samples for TEM analysis were produced by the in situ lift out technique. In this method a selected area of the sample is cut free using the ion beam. The cut sample is transferred to a support grid where final ion thinning was conducted.

High resolution transmission electron microscopy All scanning transmission electron microscopy was conducted with a FEI Company Titan G2 80 200 microscope outfitted with ChemiSTEM technology. The scope was operated at 200 kV using a high brightness Schottky electron source and a spherical aberration corrector. A silicon drift detector SDD energy dispersive x ray detector array with a combined solid angle of collection of 0.7 steradians was used for all energy dispersive x ray analysis. All TEM samples were prepared and thinned using the same Focused Ion Beam microscope described above.

Solar property characterization Solar absorptance a solar weighted or measurements were performed on a Device and Service Company solar spectrum reflectometer that was calibrated with a white diffuse standard 0.198 and was weighted to provide a measurement spectrum of that closely approximates the air mass solar spectrum. Thermal emittance measurements were performed using an AZ Technologies Temp 2000 infrared reflectometer with an 80 C. black body source. A gold standard 0.02 and a black standard 0.908 were used to calibrate the instrument. Diffuse reflectance absorptance from wavelengths of 200 2400 nm and emittance at 2400 nm were measured at room temperature on a Shimadzu UV 3600 IV VIS NIR Spectrophotometer. A BaSOreference standard was used for calibration.

The performance of each test coupon was ranked using a figure of merit FOM defined by the following equation 

As an approximation the emittance at the assumed surface temperature was calculated to be the average of the emittance at 80 C. from the IR reflectometer and the emittance at 2400 nm from diffuse reflectance . The emittance from diffuse reflectance is assumed to equal the absorptance at these wavelengths according to Kirchhoff s Law. The emittance term provides an estimate of the average value of this property over the wavelength spectrum of interest from the data generated and is meant for comparison purposes only. The numerator in the FOM is the net absorbed radiation by the receiver and the denominator is the net absorbed radiation by an ideal absorber 1 0 . This figure of merit recognizes that maximizing absorptance at the receiver does more to improve SPT efficiency than minimizing the emittance from the receiver at the irradiance and surface temperature being considered.

The as sprayed CrOcoating samples were dark green and exhibited a figure of merit ranging from 0.80 0.83 Table 3 . The as sprayed LSM sample was black and exhibited a figure of merit of 0.82 Table 3 . These figures of merit are reasonable but not good enough to warrant consideration by themselves. Other investigators have reported improvements in absorptivity after roughening a surface see e.g. Brown R J C et al. 2002 12 2749 54 . Thus roughening of both surfaces using a femtosecond laser was explored.

Laser treatment results Laser treatment of the CrOcoating was accomplished by rastering an 800 nm femtosecond laser across the coating surface in air. The 0.010 mm 0.010 mm features in were created using Set Point 1 in Table 2 left region in and Set Point 2 in Table 2 right region in . Because of the significant darkening that was observed a larger area was laser treated using Set Point 2 in Table 2. This larger feature shown in was created to provide sufficient sample area for measurement of optical properties. It was also analyzed to determine the mechanism responsible for the color change. A similar procedure was used to laser treat the LSM surface . As with the CrO laser treatment caused visible darkening of the LSM surface.

Solar performance FOM measurements Solar absorptance and emissivity measurements were made in both the as sprayed and laser treated regions of the CrOand LSM samples. These data and the calculated Figure of Merit are shown in Table 3. For comparison purposes samples of Pyromark 2500 deposited and cured according to manufacturer specifications have a relative FOM of 0.89 when measured using the same technique Ho C K et al. Characterization of Pyromark 2500 for high temperature solar receivers 2012 San Diego Calif. Jul. 23 26 2012 Paper No. ES2012 91374 pp. 509 518 .

The solar absorptance measurements in Table 3 show that both the laser treated CrOand LSM surfaces exhibit a FOM similar to Pyromark 2500 FOM 0.89 . These data also show that in both cases solar absorptivity increased more than emissivity decreased. These results are extremely important because laser treated CrOand LSM are both ceramic materials and thus are likely to be significantly more durable at high temperature than organic based Pyromark 2500.

Samples 2 4 in Table 3 were laser treated using Set Point 3 in Table 2. One of these sample sample 2 was left over from an earlier thermal aging experiment. During that experiment the CrOsample was thermally aged in air at 600 C. for two weeks at 700 C. for two weeks and then at 800 C. for four and one half days. Interestingly the thermally aged sample did not perform significantly differently after laser treatment when compared to the un aged samples. This suggests that laser treatment could be used to refresh a CrOcoating if its optical properties degrade during use on a power tower.

Before determining that laser treated CrOand LSM actually are alternatives to Pyromark 2500 the long term about 30 years thermal stability of these surfaces must be assessed. Identification of the microstructural features responsible for the observed solar property changes are critical because this will identify what must be evaluated in order to predict aging behavior. The samples shown in were analyzed with the goal of identifying these microstructural features. This analysis is reported below. The CrOcoating was analyzed first and these data were used to inform analysis of the LSM sample. As a result the LSM sample was analyzed using STEM only.

X ray diffraction results Both the as sprayed and laser treated regions shown in were examined using X Ray Diffraction XRD . The XRD analysis was intended to identify any gross phase or chemical change that could be associated with the color change from green to black in the laser treated region.

XRD data confirmed that both the as sprayed and laser treated regions had expected crystal lattice parameters. For instance these data confirmed the presence of CrOwith the expected crystal lattice parameters for the as sprayed region a 4.957 2 c 13.556 9 vol 288.5 and the laser treated region a 4.956 2 c 13.55 1 vol 288.3 . Neither the as sprayed nor the laser treated CrOcoating contained any contamination detectable using XRD. Furthermore lattice parameter refinement for both the as sprayed and laser treated regions showed little difference in the CrOunit cell size. These data demonstrate that the observed changes in the coating optical properties cannot be attributed to either a gross chemical change or a gross phase transformation.

Surface roughness results The surface roughness of the as sprayed and laser treated CrOcoating regions was characterized to determine if the meso scale 1 10 microns surface roughness differences could be responsible for the change in optical properties. Both regions contain high aspect ratio features that introduce error in the Wyko surface roughness measurement. Nevertheless the data were informative. Three areas were measured in each coating region. Representative data are shown in . Table 4 summarizes the average roughness R data for all six measured areas.

Despite the measurement error associated with interferometric characterization of this sample these roughness data demonstrate that the as sprayed and laser treated regions have similar meso scale roughness. Thus a meso scale roughness difference is not responsible for the change in optical properties. The sample was further analyzed using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

SEM and energy dispersive x ray spectroscopy results Secondary electron image spanning both the as sprayed and laser treated regions confirmed the optical interferometry based conclusion that no gross difference in meso scale surface roughness was associated with the laser treatment.

An Energy Dispersive X Ray Spectroscopy EDS map of the area shown in was used to identify the atomic species present on the CrOcoating surface. shows a summary spectrum identifying the species present on the coating surface shown in .

EDS maps of the region in showed the distribution of a single element Na Si Cr O or C . Carbon is the only element that is identified in significantly different quantities in the as sprayed region and laser treated regions suggesting that a carbon containing material has been removed from the surface by laser treatment. It is important to note that a carbon containing material may not actually be present on the surface. There is no carbon source in the APS process or the fused and crushed CrOfeed stock. Previous experiments involving thermal aging of plasma sprayed CrOcoatings at temperatures between 600 C. and 800 C. for times up to two weeks did not cause sample darkening or increase in absorptivity. These temperatures would have removed any organic material on the coating surface. As will be shown below no other analysis technique identified a carbon containing material on the CrOsurface. However microstructural features capable of creating artifacts in a backscattered image were identified.

Surface morphology results A high magnification SEM image showing the laser treated surface revealed high aspect ratio sub micron roughness . This extremely fine texture is characteristic of the laser treated CrOsurface. This surface is similar to the SuperBlack surface and may be responsible for the observed change in the laser treated CrO s optical properties. Importantly similar roughness appears to be present beneath the carbon containing material on the as sprayed surface .

Focused ion bean cross sectioning results An SEM equipped with a Focused Ion Beam FIB micro machining capability was used to prepare cross sections of the as sprayed and laser treated CrO. These cross sections revealed detail about the depth of the sub micron surface roughness shown in . The FIB was used to cut trenches approximately 25 microns long by 10 microns wide by 5 microns deep at three locations. A thin layer of platinum was deposited over and around the area of interest prior to cutting. This platinum layer is necessary to preserve the surface microstructure and prevent surface charging during FIB cutting.

The sidewall step revealed by the FIB trench at the boundary between the as sprayed and laser treated regions suggests that the laser treated region is lower than the as sprayed surface. While this is not conclusive evidence that material has been removed by the laser treatment when coupled with the SEM data above it strongly suggests that material has been removed by the laser treatment.

FIB trenches were also obtained in region well away from the boundary. The trench shown in was prepared in the as sprayed region. This FIB trench revealed that regular sub micron high aspect ratio roughness was present on the as sprayed CrOcoating surface. Importantly no carbon contamination was identified on the as sprayed surface.

STEM results for CrOsamples Electron transparent cross sections of the as sprayed and laser treated regions of the coating were prepared using the FIB. These cross sections were placed in a high resolution scanning transmission electron microscope STEM so that the sub micron features on the coating surface could be further analyzed. In the as sprayed CrOsample the CrOsurface was visible at the top of the image and the stainless steel substrate is visible at the bottom of the image as confirmed by the EDS map show in . Columnar features can be seen clearly on the surface of the as sprayed CrOsample. This is consistent with the sub micron roughness noted in SEM images and FIB cross sections of the as sprayed sample surface .

An electron diffraction contrast image of the as sprayed sample is shown in . In the electron diffraction image differences in grain orientation are revealed as contrast. The columnar structures on the as sprayed CrOsurface appear related to the grains in the CrOsplats. Specifically they appear to have similar orientation to many of the visible grains and appear to be growing out of the surface grains. This suggests that the columnar structures are a product of the CrOsplat solidification process. This orientation similarity can be more clearly seen in the high magnification image shown in .

These columnar structures were oriented in similar directions at an angle to the substrate normal. Due to the angle to the substrate normal and the high aspect ratio of these columnar structures the previously collected data from multiple materials characterization tools were visited and reanalyzed. First the results from Wyko surface roughness measurement did not capture the structure dimension of 250 300 nm tall and 50 150 nm wide. Second the results from backscattered SEM images and elemental x ray analysis from EDS SEM are likely artifacts created by the spacing between the columns. The spacing between the columns are effectively pores and could create sufficient porosity in the electron interaction volume to reduce the effective atomic number an produce the backscattered electron contrast seen in .

STEM results for LSM samples The as sprayed LSM sample is shown in . It is a dense coating with a lamellar structure typical of a plasma sprayed coating. The individual lamella contains grain structures that are largely vertical because the grains grow in the heat flow direction as the liquid droplets that form the lamella solidify. The majority of this sample surface is covered with Pt confirming that the coating surface is intact. A small amount of debris is visible on the coating surface.

Interestingly shows lattice fringes. Perovskites such as LSM typically have large unit cells making atomic resolution imaging possible. Atomic resolution images with EDS analysis confirmed that the as sprayed LSM sample contains the expected ordered perovskite structure with La and Sr sharing a crystal plane and Mn O occupying the other crystal plane.

Optical measurements of multiple CrOsamples clearly show that laser treatment significantly improves Figure of Merit. Laser treatment also improved Figure of Merit in LSM coatings. In both cases the laser treated coatings exhibit higher absorptance and slightly less emittance when compared to the as sprayed samples. This is exciting because the laser treated samples exhibit a Figure of Merit similar to Pyromark 2500. Pyromark 2500 is the baseline coating is known produce efficient power generation in CSP system. However because Pyromark 2500 is an organic coating it will not survive the 700 C. operating temperatures required by new CSP designs.

Chrome oxide is a high temperature ceramic material T 2435 C. that is routinely applied as a coating using plasma spray. Chrome oxide plasma sprayed coatings are recommended for service at temperatures up to 815 C. Sulzer Metco Technical Bulletin 10 658 AMDRY 6420 Chromium Oxide Powder For Wear Resistant Coatings October 2000 . Similarly LSM coatings are routinely used at service temperatures up to 800 C. 1475 F. . Lanthanum Strontium Manganite is actually a family of perovskite materials with various specific compositions. Most LSM s exhibit melting points in excess of 1000 C. Jiang S P 2008 November 43 21 6799 833 .

Given this encouraging data the long term thermal stability about 30 years of these laser treated surfaces is now a key question. Because testing at 700 C. for 30 years is not practical accelerated testing must be performed to determine if the laser treated surfaces can be expected to exhibit stable optical properties for the service life of the CSP receiver. It is not sufficient to simply bake a laser treated sample at high temperature for weeks or months and then measure its properties. Instead accurate accelerated testing requires understanding the mechanism responsible any change in the properties when exposed to high temperature. In order to understand changes to the coatings properties at high temperatures the mechanism responsible for the observed increase in absorptivity and reduction in emissivity after laser treatment must be identified.

Analysis of both the as sprayed and laser treated CrOand LSM surfaces has been conducted. X ray diffraction did not reveal any gross phase difference in the CrOsamples. Optical interferometry did not reveal any gross differences in the CrOmeso scale surface roughness. Scanning electron microscopy revealed a visible texture difference between the two CrOsurfaces. The as sprayed CrOsurface appeared rougher and more porous and produced less backscattered electron contrast than the laser treated surface. Initial EDS in the SEM analysis identified carbon on the as sprayed CrOsurface but not on the laser treated surface. Analysis of the CrOfeed stock powder demonstrated that no carbon is present in the feed stock. There is no other carbon source associated with the TriplexPro 210 APS torch. No other analysis techniques including glancing angle XRD and STEM were able to detect carbon on the sample surface.

Focused ion beam analysis revealed sub micron roughness on both the as sprayed and laser treated surfaces. Further analysis of this sub micron roughness with STEM revealed regular columnar structures on the as sprayed CrOsurface. Electron diffraction contrast images show that these columnar structures have crystallographic orientation similar to the CrOthat they appear to grow from. They are thus associated with the splat solidification front and are characteristic of early stage dendritic solidification. Without wishing to be limited by mechanism we believe that the large amount on interstitial space void associated with the nano sized columnar surface texture created an artifact that is responsible for the reduced backscatter contrast and the identification of carbon by the SEM s EDS system . Evidence of impurity segregation due to dendritic solidification was also found on the as sprayed LSM surface however no columnar nanostructures were present on this as sprayed surface.

When the laser treated surfaces were analyzed different surface morphologies were revealed. The laser treated CrOsurface is populated with fractal like columnar structures that do not have an orientation relationship with the underlying CrOgrains. They clearly contained significant nano meter scale features not present in the columns on the as sprayed surface. The formation of similar nanostructures as a result of femtosecond laser treatment has been reported on silicon and titanium surfaces Tsukamoto M et al. Periodic microstructures produced by femtosecond laser irradiation on titanium plate 2006 September 80 11 12 1346 50 and Haberfehlner G et al. Selenium segregation in femtosecond laser hyperdoped silicon revealed by electron tomography 2013 June 19 3 716 25 . Nanostructure formation in these cases was due to selective ablation by the femtosecond laser pulse not melting of the surface. Variations due to surface chemistry laser polarization vector and laser fluence were reported to affect nanostructure morphology and periodicity Tsukamoto M et al. 2006 September 80 11 12 1346 50 .

The laser treated LSM surface also exhibited a highly textured surface with nanoscale features but not columns. EDS analysis showed evidence of selective La and Sr ablation. Without wishing to be limited by mechanism these nanostructures are likely the most significant difference detected between the two surfaces. In both cases the features on the laser treated surfaces are significantly smaller than the wavelength of light in the solar spectrum 250 2500 nm . The interfaces and defects associated with these nanostructured surfaces could easily scatter photons and increase absorptivity and decrease emissivity consistent with Brown R J C et al. 2002 12 2749 54.

Based on these experiments a skilled artisan would understand that the coating process figure of merit values and coating stability could be further optimized. Stability at CSP operating temperatures is critical. For instance aging studies can be used to monitor the morphological evolution of these CrOand LSM nanostructures at various temperatures and correlate any changes nanostructure morphology with changes in measured optical properties. Such data would allow meaningful prediction of relevant long term aging behavior of these unique surfaces. Because these nanostructures can be created using laser treatment they need not be stable for the lifetime of the tower. Instead laser treatment could be conducted in situ on an annual or semi annual basis. The in situ laser treatment process could be conducted at night while the tube sheet is not in operation.

Thick CrOcoatings prepared using the air plasma spray process have been previously shown to have a good figure of merit 0.80 0.83 for Solar Power Tower applications. Here laser surface treatment was used to improve the solar performance of both CrOand LSM coatings. Laser treated CrOand LSM coatings exhibited figures of merit of 0.889 and 0.892 respectively. This is significant because these figures of merit are similar to Pyromark 2500 FOM 0.89 the leading solar absorptive coating. Both CrOand LSM are expected to be significantly more durable at high temperature than Pyromark 2500.

Analysis of both the as sprayed and laser treated CrOand LSM surfaces has been conducted. In particular this analysis identified differences in the two surfaces that could cause the observed changes in Figure of Merit after laser treatment. Analysis of sub micron surface roughness with STEM revealed regular columnar structures on the as sprayed CrOsurface and evidence of solute segregation near the LSM surface. Both structures can be associated with the droplet solidification process inherent to the plasma spray process.

When the laser treated surfaces were analyzed different surface morphologies were revealed. The laser treated CrOsurface was populated with fractal like columnar nanostructures that do not have an orientation relationship with the underlying CrOgrains. Nanostructure formation is thought to be due to selective ablation by the femtosecond laser pulse not melting of the surface. The laser treated LSM surface also exhibited a highly textured surface with nanoscale features but not columns. EDS analysis showed evidence of selective La and Sr ablation. These nanostructures are likely the most significant difference detected between the two surfaces. In both cases the features on the laser treated surfaces are significantly smaller than the wavelength of light in the solar spectrum 250 2500 nm . The interfaces and defects associated with these nanostructured surfaces could easily scatter photons and increase absorptivity and decrease emissivity.

Future aging studies should attempt to monitor the morphological evolution of these unique surfaces at various temperatures and correlate any changes nanostructure morphology with changes in measured optical properties. Such data would allow meaningful prediction of relevant long term aging behavior of this unique surface.

Two surfaces were further analyzed in an aging study 1 an as sprayed LSM coating and 2 a laser treated LSM coating. Thermal testing as described below has proven that LSM surface structures and optical properties are reasonably stable at temperatures up to 700 C. for up to 20 days.

Thermal spray coating preparation Coatings were prepared as described herein e.g. in Example 2. In brief all coatings were prepared using a TriplexPro 210 air plasma spray torch outfitted with a Unicoat process controller and a 9MP CL powder hopper Sulzer Metco Inc. Westbury N.Y. . The spray torch was mounted on an ABB IRB 6600 six axis robot which controlled the spray path raster pattern with a traverse speed of 800 mm s and standoff distance about 152.4 mm . Coatings were prepared using a standard 9 mm nozzle and 1.8 mm powder injector powder feed rate of 30 g min carrier gas of argon feed stock powder of agglomerated and sintered LSM powder LaSr MnO . The torch was operated at 400 A with an Ar plasma gas flow of 46 SLPM .

Nanosecond laser surface treatment Prior to thermal exposure all LSM coatings were laser surface treated using an SPI G3 nanosecond laser operated at 5 W laser power commanded 50 kHz pulse frequency and 200 ns laser pulse width. Surface treatment was accomplished by translating the 50 micron diameter incident beam over the sample surface at 50 mm s in a serpentine raster pattern with a nominal step size of 40 microns.

Thermal exposure thermal aging Plasma sprayed and laser treated LSM coating were thermally aged in ambient air for 480 hours at temperatures of 600 C. 700 C. and 800 C. by baking them in a laboratory oven.

Coating surface characterization The LSM coating microstructures were characterized in three conditions as sprayed laser treated and laser treated with thermally aging. The thermally aged sample was exposed to 700 C. ambient air for 480 hours 20 days . Two Scanning Electron Microscopes SEMs were used to characterize the sample surfaces. All samples were imaged using a Carl Zeiss Supra 55VP SEM at 10 kV and a working distance of 8.5 mm with varying degrees of magnification. Images were obtained using secondary SE2 and backscatter BSC detection. Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy EDS spectra were collected with an Oxford X Max detector and AZtec software. The EDS spectra enabled mapping of chemical species on the sample surfaces. An extreme high resolution FEI Magellan 400 SEM was used to characterize the LSM surface morphology because it s higher resolution enabled imaging the nanoscales LSM structures. The FEI Magellan 400 XHR SEM is the world s first Extreme High Resolution SEM. The Magellan 400 delivers unmatched surface sensitive imaging performance at sub nanometer resolution.

The LSM samples were predominately imaged at SkeV and 0.20 nA in Field Free mode. For most of the SEM images the ETD Everhart Thornley Detector was used. A few SEM images used the TLD Through the Lens Detector . The CBS Concentric BackScatter Detector was used for the backscatter images. In both SEMs all samples were imaged without any preparation or conductive surface coatings.

Solar property characterization Optical properties solar absorptance and thermal emittance of the coatings were monitored before during and after aging. Optical property measurements made at times 

The performance of each test coupon was ranked using a selective absorber efficiency defined by the following equation 

Solar absorptance and emissivity measurements were made on both the as sprayed and laser treated regions of the LSM sample. These data and the calculated solar selective efficiency are shown in Table 5. For comparison purposes samples of Pyromark 2500 deposited and cured according to manufacturer specifications exhibited of 0.890 when measured using the same technique see e.g. Ho C K et al. Characterization of Pyromark 2500 paint for high temperature solar receivers 2013 July 136 1 014502 4 pp. . The data in Table 5 show that the laser treated LSM surface exhibits a FOM similar to Pyromark 2500.

When comparing laser treated LSM to Pyromark 2500 the long term 30 years thermal stability of the laser treated surface must be assessed. If the optical properties of the laser treated LSM are not stable at CSP operating temperatures then the coatings are of little value. Short duration 480 hours high temperature aging up to 800 C. studies were conducted to assess the thermal stability of LSM.

The as sprayed LSM coating exhibited splat structures indicating well melted droplets and partially solidified droplets . The partially solidified droplets will give rise to some porosity in the coating . Solidification induced microcracking which can in the coating surface . Neither feature will be detrimental to the coatings performance and may actually improve its strain tolerance.

In contrast laser treated coatings exhibited trench like features . Measurements of these trenches include a width of about 10 microns and a spacing of about 30 microns between trenches. They are a direct result of material removal during the nanosecond laser treatment process. Comparison of the laser treated and the laser treated with thermally aged samples showed that trench size and trench spacing had not changed.

Cross sections of trenches and sidewalls were also imaged which showed re deposited material visible on the trench sidewall. The backscattered electron images in right did not show contrast between the re deposited material and the underlying LSM splats. This suggested that the re deposited material s composition was similar to the underlying splats. The columnar microstructure visible in the re deposited material suggested that it was deposited from vapor. As seen in the even higher magnification image of the re deposited material showed an extremely fine 

Thus laser treatment has created an LSM surface with multiple length scales. The trenches are about 10 m wide with about 30 m wide spacing. The trench sidewalls are covered with a re deposited layer having a thickness of about 1 m. In addition the re deposited layer contained columnar structures with about 250 nm spacing where these columnar structures in turn contained substructures with about 10 nm sized features. Without wishing to be limited to mechanism we believe that these variations in the re deposited layer provide a multi length scale surface and this surface allows for interaction and absorption with incoming photons.

Thermal aging of laser treated LSM surfaces were analyzed. shows high magnification secondary electron and backscattered electron images of the laser treated LSM surface after aging at 700 C. for 480 hours. The re deposited material was still present after aging. Lack of contrast in the backscattered image suggested that no gross composition change had occurred in the re deposited material during aging.

Higher magnification images showed the surface of the re deposited material at the bottom of a trench which revealed porous multi scale surfaces similar to the surface observed before aging. Surprisingly the fine 

EDS analyses were also conducted on laser treated thermally aged samples. Individual EDS maps for the aged LSM surface suggested that the crystallites may be slightly enriched in Mn. Analytical transmission electron microscopy can be conducted to further confirm the crystallite composition.

Many structural properties of the beneficial laser treated surface was maintained after thermal aging. Much of the nanoscale 

In addition further laser treatments can be explored in order to treat a degraded LSM surface and to determine the effect of a second laser treatment on surface structure and optical properties. Various parameters of the laser treatment process can be refined. For instance the nanosecond laser treatment can be optimized to minimize treatment time and maximize optical properties such as by varying line width line spacing line depth substrate temperature etc.

Laser treated surfaces provide enhanced solar absorptivity. The practicality of this laser treatment process can be considered. For instance at a translation speed of 50 mm sec one square meter can be treated in 8334 minutes or about 139 hours. The current nanosecond laser technology being explored could allow an individual laser beam to be split into four laser beams thereby providing translation speeds up to 1 m s. Assuming four beams laser and a translation speed of 1 m s a single laser can treat one square meter in 104 minutes or 1.7 hours. Further improvements can include use of multiple lasers. Using eight lasers 32 incident beams the time to treat one square meter can be reduced to 13 minutes. At this speed a 1000 mtube sheet could be treated in 217 hours or 27 eight hour nights. Assuming that the tube sheet can be treated at night refreshing the surface over the course of a month could be practical.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification including U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 945 407 filed Feb. 27 2014 are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

