---

title: System for on-site management of an event
abstract: A system includes a gatekeeper system for validating ticket information for a plurality of attendees of an event, the gatekeeper system being operable to communicably connect by a wireless connection signal to mobile check-in devices, and one or more mobile check-in devices communicably connected to the gatekeeper system, each mobile check-in device being operable to receive ticket identifiers for attendees of the event and to transmit the ticket identifiers for the attendees to the gatekeeper system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563859&OS=09563859&RS=09563859
owner: Eventbrite, Inc.
number: 09563859
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150924
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 478 798 filed 5 Sep. 2014 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 099 753 filed 6 Dec. 2013 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 773 005 filed 21 Feb. 2013 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 608 054 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 234 000 filed 15 Sep. 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 397 984.

The present disclosure generally relates to event management systems and systems for managing and monitoring ticket processing and attendee check in at events.

Entry management at events is a long established problem. Typically event organizers will have someone man the door equipped with a clipboard a list of all the registered attendees printed on paper and a pen to mark off those who have entered. The process is time consuming and breaks down when an event has multiple locations with multiple points of entry. Entry lines will often be long and slow as the person at the door looks up each person on the list. When multiple locations are involved a person could sneak into the event by giving the name of a person that went in the other door.

Event management information can be stored in relational databases. Generally a relational database is a collection of relations frequently referred to as tables . Relational databases use a set of mathematical terms which may use Structured Query Language SQL database terminology. MySQL is a relational database management system RDBMS that runs as a server providing multi user access to a number of databases. SQLite is a software library that implements a self contained serverless zero configuration transactional SQL database engine.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are best understood by referring to of the drawings like numerals being used for like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.

As discussed above gatekeeper system provides the indication of validity of the ticket presented by a spectator attempting to enter an event. An event may be for example a party a concert a conference a sporting event a fundraiser a networking event or a live performance. Although various event forums may have built in systems for managing spectator entry into the event such as football stadiums many events may occur in locations where a built in system for managing spectator entry is unavailable. For example some events may occur in parking lots open fields fairgrounds buildings that typically do not host events and or other locations where a built in system for managing spectator entry is not available. Furthermore many of these locations may have conditions such a little to no protection from wind rain mud etc. that are unsuitable for electronic systems. In particular embodiments gatekeeper system may manage entry of spectators into an event. Furthermore gatekeeper system may include a protective casing that protects gatekeeper system from one or more conditions that may be present on site at an event.

According to the illustrated embodiment gatekeeper system includes protective casing router switch uninterrupted power supply storage area and gatekeeper computing system . In particular embodiments gatekeeper system may include any other components for providing the indication of validity of the ticket presented by a spectator attempting entry at an event.

Protective casing represents any components that may protect gatekeeper system from one or more conditions that may be present on site at an event. In particular embodiments protective casing is a portable casing. As such protective casing and any components of gatekeeper system located inside of protective casing may be easily transported to and from an event. In particular embodiments protective casing may be carried by three people or less. In particular embodiments protective casing is a ruggedized casing. As such protective casing and any components of gatekeeper system located inside of protective casing may be protected from rough handling and accidents that may occur on site at the event. For example protective casing may be accidentally dropped from small heights such as less than 3 feet without damaging or substantially damaging one or more components of gatekeeper system . In particular embodiments protective casing is a waterproof casing. As such protective casing and any components of gatekeeper system located inside of protective casing may be protected from liquids such as water and or mixtures of liquids and solids such as mud . In particular embodiments protective casing is a portable ruggedized and or waterproof casing.

Protective casing may be made of any material type that allows it to be portable ruggedized and or waterproof. For example protective casing may be made out of a polypropylene copolymer material that is lightweight durable and highly chemical resistant.

Router represents any components that may join two or more wired or wireless networks together so as to route data between the networks. Router may include any suitable router. For example router may include a multi wide area network WAN router. As such router may load balance between various network connections so as to provide optimum connectivity. In particular embodiments router may include any router available from Peplink such as the Peplink Balance or any router available from any other router manufacturer or provider.

In particular embodiments router may couple gatekeeper system to one or more networks so that ticket information stored on gatekeeper computing system may be updated from a master ticket information list for the event as is discussed in further detail in . In particular embodiments this may allow gatekeeper computing system to have the most current information with regard to the event being managed.

In particular embodiments router may connect to a WAN at the operating site of the event such as by connecting directly to a digital subscriber line DSL available at the operating site of the event . In particular embodiments if a WAN is not available at the operating site of the event router may connect to any suitable network such as networks provided by a mobile router a mobile WiFi device and or media center bridges .

Router may include any number of connection ports and any type of connection ports for joining two or more wired or wireless networks together. For example router may include Universal Serial Bus USB connection ports Ethernet cabling connection ports such as connection ports for category 5 cable any other connection ports or any combination of the preceding. In particular embodiments router may be located inside of protective casing . As such router may be protected from the outside environment throughout its operation.

Switch represents any components that join two or more computing systems together into a single network. For example switch may join two or more computing systems together into a single local area network LAN . In particular embodiments switch may include any type of switch. For example switch may include any switch available from Cisco Systems Inc. such as the Cisco SF302 08P or any switch available from any other switch manufacturer or provider.

In particular embodiments switch may be a power over Ethernet POE switch that may route both electrical power and data between multiple computing systems. According to the illustrated embodiment switch connects access points to gatekeeper computing system . As such not only may switch provide power for each access point and also for gatekeeper computing system but switch may further route data packets between access points and gatekeeper computing system .

Switch may include any number of connection ports and any type of connection ports for joining two or more computing systems together into a single network. For example switch may include USB connection ports Ethernet cabling connection ports such as connection ports for category 5 cable any other connection ports or any combination of the preceding. In particular embodiments switch may be located inside of protective casing . As such switch may be protected from the outside environment throughout its operation.

Uninterrupted power supply represents any components that may provide power to one or more components of system if an input power source is unavailable. Uninterrupted power supply may include any type of uninterrupted power supply. For example uninterrupted power supply may include any uninterrupted power supply available from APC such as the APC SC45ORM1U or any uninterrupted power supply available from any other uninterrupted power supply manufacturer or provider.

In particular embodiments uninterrupted power supply may be connected to an input power source at the operating site of the event. When the input power source is providing power uninterrupted power supply may provide the power received from the power source to access points and or components of gatekeeper system such as gatekeeper computing system . In particular embodiments such power may be provided to access points and gatekeeper computing system though switch . On the other hand if a power source at the operating site of the event is unavailable or non operational uninterrupted power supply may supply power stored at uninterrupted power supply to access points and or components of gatekeeper system . In particular embodiments uninterrupted power supply may provide stored power for any amount of time. For example uninterrupted power supply may provide stored power for five minutes ten minutes one hour two hours four hours eight hours or any other amount of time. In particular embodiments uninterrupted power supply may keep each of the access points and the components of gatekeeper system running for up to six hours.

In particular embodiments uninterrupted power supply may be located inside of protective casing . As such uninterrupted power supply may be protected from the outside environment throughout its operation.

Storage area represents an area in protective casing that may store gatekeeper computing system when gatekeeper computing system is not in use. For example when gatekeeper computing system is not operating such as when gatekeeper system is not yet set up at a particular event gatekeeper computing system may be stored in storage area . Thus gatekeeper computing system may be protected by protective casing . In particular embodiments prior to gatekeeper computing system being turned on for operation gatekeeper computing system may be removed from storage area and connected to gatekeeper system such as through switch .

Storage area may have any suitable size and shape. For example storage area may store a gatekeeper computing system of any size. Furthermore although storage area has been described as storing gatekeeper computing system in particular embodiments storage area may further store other components of gatekeeper system such as one or more connectors that may be used to connect various devices to gatekeeper system . Additionally although gatekeeper computing system has been described as being stored in storage area of protective casing and removable from storage area when gatekeeper computing system is in operation in particular embodiments gatekeeper computing system may be located inside of protective casing while in operation as is described in .

Gatekeeper computing system represents any components that may determine the indication of validity of ticket and communicate the indication of validity . Gatekeeper computing system may include any suitable computing device such as for example a network server any remote server a mainframe a host computer a workstation a personal computer a laptop a cellular phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC or a computing tablet. Particular embodiments of gatekeeper computing system are further described in .

Indication of validity may represent any indication regarding the validity of ticket . For example indication of validity may indicate that ticket is valid and therefore the spectator that has presented ticket may be allowed to enter the event. In particular embodiments indication of validity may indicate that ticket is invalid and therefore the spectator that has presented ticket may not be allowed to enter the event. In addition to indicating the validity of ticket indication of validity may further provide further information regarding ticket . For example indication of validity may further indicate that ticket is valid but entry into the event is not allowed at this time for ticket . For example if certain tickets allow for earlier entry into an event than other tickets indication of validity may indicate that the ticket is valid but that entry using the ticket is not permitted at this time. As another example indication of validity may further indicate that although ticket is valid ticket may not be used at a particular entry location for the event. For example particular tickets may require that the tickets be presented at a particular gate. As such if ticker is presented at the wrong gate indication of validity may indicate that although ticket is valid it may not be used to enter at that particular gate.

According to the illustrated embodiment gatekeeper computing system and access points are connected to switch of gatekeeper system by switch connectors . Switch connector may represent any connector that connects a device to switch so that switch may provide data and or electrical power to the device. In particular embodiments switch connector may be any type of connector. For example switch connector may be a category 5 cable. In particular embodiments switch connector may be rubberized so as to protect it from environments encountered at the event. In particular embodiments switch connector may have any length so as to connect access points and or other devices to switch over any distance.

Access point protective casing represents any components that may protect access point from one or more conditions that may be present on site at an event. In particular embodiments access point protective casing is a portable casing. As such access point protective casing and access point may be easily transported to and from an event. In particular embodiments access point protective casing may be carried by one person. In particular embodiments access point protective casing is a ruggedized casing. As such access point protective casing and access point may be protected from rough handling and accidents that may occur on site at the event. For example access point protective casing may be accidentally dropped from small heights such as less than 3 feet without damaging or substantially damaging access point . In particular embodiments access point protective casing is a waterproof casing. As such access point protective casing and access point may be protected from liquids such as water and or mixtures of liquids and solids such as mud . In particular embodiments access point protective casing is a portable ruggedized and or waterproof casing.

Access point protective casing may be made of any material type that allows it to be portable ruggedized and or waterproof. For example access point protective casing may be made out of a polypropylene copolymer material that is lightweight durable and highly chemical resistant.

According to the illustrated embodiment access points are positioned within respective access point protective casings . Access point represents any components for receiving and transmitting radio signals for a wireless network. In particular embodiments access point may receive and transmit radio signals for a wireless local area network WLAN . In particular embodiments the WLAN may include WiFi WiMax BlueTooth or other suitable standards. Access point may be any type of access point. For example access point may include any access point available from Cisco Systems Inc. such as the Cisco 1262 access point or any access point available from any other access point manufacturer or provider.

In particular embodiments access point may be a wireless access point. In particular embodiments access point may receive and send radio signals over any suitable distance. For example access point may receive and send radio signals across a distance of over 80 feet in each direction. As such mobile device may be located anywhere within the 80 feet distance from access point and may still communicate with access point .

In particular embodiments access point may be a dual frequency access point. For example access point may broadcast in two different frequencies such as 5 GHz and 2.5 GHz. In particular embodiments access point may operate in accordance with any IEEE 802.11 WLAN standard such as A B G and or N. In particular embodiments access point may receive data from mobile device and transmit the data to gatekeeper computing system . In particular embodiments access point may receive data from gatekeeper computing system and transmit the data to mobile device .

In particular embodiments access point may be autonomous or a so called fat wireless access point or a light weight wireless access point operating in connection with a wireless switch such as switch . In addition the network infrastructure may also include a Wireless LAN Solution Engine WLSE offered by Cisco Systems Inc. or another wireless network management system. In some implementations the network infrastructure may also include one or more Wireless Control System WCS nodes operative to manage one or more wireless switches and access points.

According to the illustrated embodiment access point protective casing may further include connector . Connector represents any connector such as a clamp that may connect access point protective casing to a support structure. For example in order for access point to better receive radio signals from mobile device access point protective casing which includes access point may be positioned off the ground. As such connector may couple access point protective casing to support structure so as to hold access point protective casing off the ground. In particular embodiments connector may couple access point protective casing to any suitable support structure. For example connector may couple access point protective casing to a pole of a tent a speaker stand a fence scaffolding standard rigging or any other support structure at the event.

In particular embodiments access point protective casing may further include any connection port for connecting access point to switch . For example access point protective casing may include an Ethernet card connection that is accessible from the outside of access point protective casing .

As is discussed above access point may receive and transmit communications to and from mobile device . Mobile device represents any components that communicate with gatekeeper computing system in order to receive the indication of validity of ticket . Mobile device may include any suitable computing device such as for example a personal computer a laptop a cellular phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC or a computing tablet. In particular embodiments mobile device may include any mobile device available from Motorola such as the Motorola Symbol MC65 2D or any mobile device available from any other mobile device manufacturer or provider. Particular embodiments of mobile device are further described in .

In particular embodiments mobile device may scan ticket identifier of ticket and communicate the ticket identifier to gatekeeper computing system in order to receive the indication of validity of ticket . In particular embodiments mobile device may scan ticket identifier in any manner. For example mobile device may include any suitable scanning device such as for example a camera an optical scanner a barcode scanner a QR code scanner or any another scanning device. In particular embodiments mobile device may further include a display for displaying the indication of validity . As such a user of mobile device may allow the spectator to enter the event or prevent the spectator from entering the event. In particular embodiments while mobile device is operating in system one or more functionalities of mobile device may be shut down. For example mobile device may only be able to perform functionalities related to the event management such as scanning .

Ticket represents any object that may be used to gain access to the event. According to the illustrated embodiment ticket includes ticket identifier . Ticket identifier includes any identifier that may be scanned by mobile device in order to determine whether ticket is valid or not. In particular embodiments ticket identifier may be an identification number a barcode a 2D barcode a QR code or another suitable identifier. In particular embodiments ticket identifier may be unique identifier.

In an example embodiment of operations a spectator may desire to enter a particular event. In order to do so the spectator may present ticket to a user with mobile device . Mobile device may scan ticket identifier from ticket and transmit ticket identifier to gatekeeper computing system . Based on ticket identifier gatekeeper computing system may generate the indication of validity of ticket . Gatekeeper computing system may then transmit the indication of validity to mobile device via switch and access point so that mobile device may display the indication of validity . For example mobile device may display an indication of validity that indicates that ticket is valid. As such the user of mobile device may allow the spectator with ticket to enter the event. In particular embodiments since the components of gatekeeper system are protected by protective casing such management of spectator entry may occur on site even in poor conditions.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to system without departing from the scope of the invention. For example gatekeeper system may include an access point located in protective casing . Additionally system may include any number of gatekeeper systems and or components of gatekeeper systems access point protective cases and or access points and or mobile devices . Any suitable logic may perform the functions of system and the components within system .

Event management system represents any components that may communicate with gatekeeper computing system of gatekeeper system in order to update ticket information stored on gatekeeper computing system and further to update a master ticket information list stored on event management system . Event management system may include any suitable computing device such as for example a network server any remote server a mainframe a host computer a workstation a personal computer or a laptop.

In particular embodiments event management system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more event organization and management systems. Event management system may generate store receive and transmit event related data such as for example event listings event details event history details event registration details event organizer details event attendee details ticket purchase details attendee check in details and event displays. Event management system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . Particular embodiments of event management system are further described in .

Network may be any suitable communications network. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a LAN a WLAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks . According to the illustrated embodiment network may connect gatekeeper systems to event management system .

As is discussed in gatekeeper system may provide the indication of validity of the ticket presented by a spectator attempting to enter an event. As is illustrated gatekeeper system includes gatekeeper computing system. Gatekeeper computing system represents any components that may determine the indication of validity of ticket and communicate the indication of validity . Gatekeeper computing system may include any suitable computing device such as for example a network server any remote server a mainframe a host computer a workstation a personal computer a laptop a cellular phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC or a computing tablet. Particular embodiments of gatekeeper computing system are further described in .

Network may be any suitable communications network. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks . Furthermore although network and network are illustrated as different networks in particular embodiments network and network may be the same network. According to the illustrated embodiment network may connect mobile devices to gatekeeper system .

As is discussed in mobile device represents any components that communicate with gatekeeper computing system in order to receive the indication of validity of ticket . Mobile device may include any suitable computing device such as for example a personal computer a laptop a cellular phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC or a computing tablet. In particular embodiments mobile device may include any mobile device available from Motorola such as the Motorola Symbol MC65 2D or any mobile device available from any other mobile device manufacturer or provider. Particular embodiments of mobile device are further described in .

In an example embodiment of operations event management system may include a master ticket information list discussed in for a particular event. Once gatekeeper system is connected to event management system through network event management system may send an initial message to gatekeeper system . In particular embodiments initial message may include ticket information discussed in for the event. In particular embodiments ticket information may be an exact copy of the master ticket information list stored at event management system . As such by receiving initial message gatekeeper computing system of gatekeeper system may have a list of all ticket identifiers for the event. In particular embodiments once gatekeeper computing system includes the ticket information gatekeeper computing systems may be able to provide an indication of validity for each ticket . As such spectators for the event may be allowed to begin presenting tickets for entry into the event.

Once a spectator presents ticket to a user of mobile device mobile device may scan ticket identifier from ticket and transmit ticket identifier to gatekeeper computing system through network . Gatekeeper computing system may then compare ticket identifier to the ticket information stored at gatekeeper computing system . Based on this comparison gatekeeper computing system may generate the indication of validity of ticket and transmit the indication of validity to mobile device .

In addition to generating the indication of validity gatekeeper computing system may further update the ticket information stored on gatekeeper computing system based on the comparison between the stored information and the ticket identifier . For example based on the comparison gatekeeper computing system may determine that a particular ticket identifier has been scanned and therefore may update the ticket information to indicate that the particular ticket identifier has been scanned and may no longer be used to allow any other spectators to enter the event. As such if another spectator attempts to enter the event with a ticket with that same ticket identifier gatekeeper computing system may determine that the particular ticket identifier has already been used and may provide an indication of validity that indicates that the ticket is not valid. Thus the spectator may be prevented from entering the event.

In particular embodiments while gatekeeper computing system is providing on site management of spectator entry into the event gatekeeper computing system may further transmit ticket identification message to event management system through network . In particular embodiments ticket indication message may include any information that may cause event management system to update the master ticket information list stored on event management system . For example ticket indication message may include an indication that a particular ticket identifier has been scanned by a mobile device and transmitted to gatekeeper computing system . As such event management system may update the master ticket information list to indicate that the particular ticket identifier is no longer valid. Therefore event management system may have a master ticket information list that is kept up to date with the transactions occurring on site.

In particular embodiments gatekeeper computing system may transmit ticket indication message at any time. For example ticket indication message may be transmitted to event management system each time gatekeeper computing system receives ticket identifier and compares that ticket identifier to the ticket information stored on gatekeeper computing system . As such each ticket indication message may only include a single ticket identifier .

In particular embodiments gatekeeper computing system may transmit ticket indication message to event management system periodically. For example gatekeeper computing system may transmit ticket indication message to event management system every few seconds every few minutes every few hours or after any other amount of time. In particular embodiments when the ticket indication message is transmitted periodically the ticket indication message may include more than just a single ticket identifier . For example ticket indication message may include one or more of the ticket identifiers that have been scanned and transmitted to gatekeeper computing system since the last time gatekeeper computing system transmitted ticket indication message to event management system . In particular embodiments ticket indication message may include all of the ticket information stored at gatekeeper computing system or may only include an update such as all of the new information that has been added to the ticket information stored at gatekeeper computing system since the last ticket indication message was sent to event management system .

In particular embodiments event management system may periodically transmit an update message to gatekeeper computing system . Update message may include any indication of one or more changes to the master ticket information list that have occurred since initial message or the last update message . In particular embodiments event management system may transmit update message every few seconds every few minutes every few hours or after any other amount of time.

In particular embodiments by receiving update message gatekeeper computing system may be able to update the ticket information stored at gatekeeper computing system to match the master ticket information list stored at event management system . In particular embodiments this may allow gatekeeper computing system to have the most current ticket information. Therefore if gatekeeper computing system has received a particular ticket identifier from mobile device information regarding that particular ticket identifier may be transmitted to event management system and further transmitted to gatekeeper computing system . As such if a spectator attempts to enter the event with a ticket that includes the exact same ticket identifier that was already scanned and transmitted to gatekeeper computing system the ticket information at gatekeeper computing system may include information that indicates that this particular ticket identifier has already been used for entry. As such gatekeeper computing system may provide an indication of validity that indicates that the ticket identifier is not valid.

Although system illustrates gatekeeper computing system receiving update messages from event management system in particular embodiments gatekeeper computing system may be unable to connect to event management system such as when there is no internet connectivity at the event . In such an embodiment gatekeeper computing system may still include the stored ticket information. As such gatekeeper computing system may still provide on site management of spectator entry into the event even when gatekeeper computing system is unable to connect to event management .

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to system without departing from the scope of the invention. For example although system illustrates a particular arrangement of event management system network gatekeeper systems networks and mobile devices this disclosure contemplates any suitable arrangement of event management system network gatekeeper systems networks and mobile devices . As an example and not by way of limitation two or more of gatekeeper systems may be connected to each other directly bypassing network and event management system . Additionally system may include any suitable number of event management systems networks gatekeeper systems networks and or mobile devices . Furthermore any suitable logic may perform the functions of system and the components within system .

Additionally although system illustrates update messages being transmitted from event management system in particular update messages may be transmitted directly from gatekeeper computing system to gatekeeper computing system or vice versa. Furthermore although system illustrates initial message being received at gatekeeper computing system through network in particular embodiments initial message and or the ticket information may be received at gatekeeper computing system in any other manner.

Network interface represents any device operable to receive information from a network such as network and or network of transmit information through the network perform processing of information communicate to other devices or any combination of the preceding. For example network interface receives ticket identifier from mobile device . As another example network interface communicates the indication of validity to mobile device . Network interface represents any port or connection real or virtual including any suitable hardware and or software including protocol conversion and data processing capabilities to communicate through a LAN a MAN a WAN or other communication system that allows gatekeeper computing system to exchange information with the network mobile devices event management system other components of system of or other components of system of .

Processor communicatively couples to network interface and memory and controls the operation and administration of gatekeeper computing system by processing information received from network interface and memory . Processor includes any hardware and or software that operates to control and process information. For example processor executes application to control the operation of gatekeeper computing system . Processor may be a programmable logic device a microcontroller a microprocessor any processing device or any combination of the preceding.

Memory stores either permanently or temporarily data operational software or other information for processor . Memory includes any one or a combination of volatile or non volatile local or remote devices suitable for storing information. For example memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic storage devices optical storage devices or any other information storage device or a combination of these devices. While illustrated as including particular modules memory may include any information for use in the operation of gatekeeper computing system .

In the illustrated embodiment memory includes application and ticket information . Application represents any suitable set of instructions logic or code embodied in a computer readable storage medium and operable to facilitate the operation of gatekeeper computing system .

Ticket information represents any information regarding tickets for the event. For example ticket information includes a list of ticket identifiers that are valid a list of ticket identifiers that are not valid any other information that may be used to manage entry of one or more spectators to the event or any combination of the preceding. In particular embodiments when gatekeeper computing system receives a particular ticket identifier from mobile device gatekeeper computing system may access ticket information in order to compare ticket information to the ticket identifier . In particular embodiments if the ticket information indicates that the ticket identifier is valid such as by determining that ticket identifier was listed as a valid ticket identifier gatekeeper computing system may generate an indication of validity that indicates that ticket is valid.

In particular embodiments ticket information may further include mobile device setting information. For example as is discussed above certain tickets may be given a priority over other tickets. As an example a higher priced ticket may allow a spectator to enter the event earlier or from a different gate than lower priced tickets. In particular embodiments mobile device setting information may include information that indicates which tickets are allowed to be used at particular mobile devices . For example if a particular mobile device is being used at Gate A which is a gate that may only be accessed by spectators with a ticket that has a Gate A priority mobile device setting information may include information that indicates that the particular mobile device can only allow entry to spectators that include a ticket with the Gate A priority. As such if mobile device scans a ticket identifier of a ticket that does not include a Gate A priority gatekeeper computing system may transmit an indication of validity to mobile device that indicates that the ticket is valid but not at that gate. The user of mobile device may then direct the spectator to attempt entry to the event at another gate.

In particular embodiments ticket information may further include information regarding event attendees. For example ticket information may include information describing one or more of the attendees registered to attend the event include the attendee s name phone number mailing address email address payment information ticket order information ticket information check in status and other suitable attendee information.

Network interface represents any device operable to receive information from a network such as network of transmit information through the network perform processing of information communicate to other devices or any combination of the preceding. For example network interface communicates ticket identifier to gatekeeper computing system . As another example network interface receives the indication of validity from gatekeeper computing system . Network interface represents any port or connection real or virtual including any suitable hardware and or software including protocol conversion and data processing capabilities to communicate through a LAN a MAN a WAN or other communication system that allows mobile device to exchange information with the network gatekeeper computing system other components of system of or other components of system of .

Processor communicatively couples to network interface and memory and controls the operation and administration of mobile device by processing information received from network interface and memory . Processor includes any hardware and or software that operates to control and process information. For example processor executes application to control the operation of mobile device . Processor may be a programmable logic device a microcontroller a microprocessor any processing device or any combination of the preceding.

Memory stores either permanently or temporarily data operational software or other information for processor . Memory includes any one or a combination of volatile or non volatile local or remote devices suitable for storing information. For example memory may include RAM ROM magnetic storage devices optical storage devices or any other information storage device or a combination of these devices. While illustrated as including particular modules memory may include any information for use in the operation of mobile device .

In the illustrated embodiment memory includes application and status indicators . Application represents any suitable set of instructions logic or code embodied in a computer readable storage medium and operable to facilitate the operation of mobile device .

Status indicators represent any information regarding the status of mobile device . For example status indicators may include a battery level of mobile device a wireless connection signal of mobile device scanning problem indications at mobile device such as the user of mobile device improperly scanning ticket identifier or the number of tickets that have been presented at the wrong mobile device any other status indicators of mobile device or any combination of the preceding. In particular embodiments mobile device may retrieve status indicators by monitoring the status of mobile device in any manner. In particular embodiments mobile device may transmit status indicators to gatekeeper computing system .

Network interface represents any device operable to receive information from a network such as network of transmit information through the network perform processing of information communicate to other devices or any combination of the preceding. For example network interface communicates initial message to gatekeeper computing system . As another example network interface receives ticket indication message from gatekeeper computing system . Network interface represents any port or connection real or virtual including any suitable hardware and or software including protocol conversion and data processing capabilities to communicate through a LAN a MAN a WAN or other communication system that allows event management system to exchange information with the network gatekeeper computing system other components of system of or other components of system of .

Processor communicatively couples to network interface and memory and controls the operation and administration of event management system by processing information received from network interface and memory . Processor includes any hardware and or software that operates to control and process information. For example processor executes application to control the operation of event management system . Processor may be a programmable logic device a microcontroller a microprocessor any processing device or any combination of the preceding.

Memory stores either permanently or temporarily data operational software or other information for processor . Memory includes any one or a combination of volatile or non volatile local or remote devices suitable for storing information. For example memory may include RAM ROM magnetic storage devices optical storage devices or any other information storage device or a combination of these devices. While illustrated as including particular modules memory may include any information for use in the operation of event management system .

In the illustrated embodiment memory includes application and master ticket information list . Application represents any suitable set of instructions logic or code embodied in a computer readable storage medium and operable to facilitate the operation of event management system .

Master ticket information list represents any information regarding tickets for the event. For example master ticket information list includes a list of ticket identifiers that are valid a list of ticket identifiers that are not valid any other information that may be used to manage entry of one or more spectators to the event or any combination of the preceding. In particular embodiments master ticket information list is a master list of all the information regarding tickets for the events. As such if ticket information stored at gatekeeper computing system is lost or corrupted master ticket information list may be used to proved new ticket information to gatekeeper computing system . Furthermore if any changes occur that affect tickets for the event such as the purchase of additional tickets or the invalidity of certain ticket identifiers the changes may be added to master ticket information list . The changes may then be sent to gatekeeper computing systems in order to update ticket information .

In particular embodiments master ticket information list may further include any of the information included in ticket information stored at gatekeeper computing systems . For example master ticket information list may further include mobile device setting information discussed above and information regarding event attendees also discussed above .

In particular embodiments since gatekeeper computing system is located inside of protective casing while in operation gatekeeper computing system may not include one or more user interfaces such as one or more of a display a keyboard and or a mouse . Despite not having one or more user interfaces gatekeeper computing system may still determine the indication of validity of ticket and communicate the indication of validity to a mobile device .

In particular embodiments since gatekeeper computing system may not have one or more user interfaces a user of gatekeeper system may be able to connect to gatekeeper computing system such as through network or network of in order to view a graphical user interface that includes the status of the event such as the indications of validity and one or more viewable displays provided by gatekeeper computing system such as indicator information of .

At step the protective casing is opened. In particular embodiments the protective casing may be opened by opening a lid of the protective casing. In particular embodiments the protective casing may be opened in order to access one or more components of the gatekeeper system. In particular embodiments even when the lid of the protective casing is open the protective casing may still provide protection to one or more components of the gatekeeper system.

At step the gatekeeper system is plugged in. In particular embodiments the gatekeeper system may be plugged into a network port in order to connect the router of the gatekeeper system to a WAN or a LAN. In particular embodiments the gatekeeper system may be plugged in by connecting the gatekeeper system to a power source that provides electrical power to the uninterrupted power supply of the gatekeeper system.

At step each access point is set up. In particular embodiments each access point may be set up by connecting a switch connector such as a category 5 cable to the switch of the gatekeeper system and running the switch connector to the location where the access point will be positioned. In particular embodiments setting up each access point may further include coupling each access point to a support structure such as a pole speaker stand fence or scaffolding by the connector.

At step the gatekeeper system is powered on. In particular embodiments the gatekeeper system may be powered on by turning on each component of the gatekeeper system. For example each of the router switch uninterrupted power supply and gatekeeper computing system may be turned on. In particular embodiments turning on the gatekeeper computing system may include re setting the ticket information stored on the gatekeeper computing system and accessing the event management system in order to pull down new ticket information for storage at the gatekeeper computing system such as by receiving initial message of . In particular embodiments this may allow the gatekeeper computing system to have a local copy of the ticket information so that the gatekeeper computing system may provide on site management of spectator entry into the event even when the gatekeeper system is not connected to the event management system. In particular embodiments the gatekeeper computing system may already be pre configured to include the ticket information for the event. As such the gatekeeper computing system may not need to pull down the new ticket information.

At step each mobile device is powered on. In particular embodiments each mobile device may be powered on by turning on each mobile device.

At step a gatekeeper system for each mobile device is selected. In particular embodiments the gatekeeper system for each mobile device may be selected by selecting the IP address for the gatekeeper system. In particular embodiments since more than one gatekeeper system may be used at each event the mobile device may need to choose which gatekeeper system it will connect to in order to receive an indication of validity for each scanned ticket. In particular embodiments the IP address for each gatekeeper system may be hardcoded into each mobile device. As such selecting the gatekeeper system may include selecting one of the gatekeeper systems that is displayed on the display of the mobile device. In particular embodiments the IP address for the gatekeeper systems may not be hardcoded into the mobile device. As such the IP address for the selected gatekeeper system may be entered into the mobile device in any manner. For example a user of the mobile device may type in the IP address for the gatekeeper system. As another example each gatekeeper system may include a scannable identifier on the gatekeeper system such as a bar code printed on the protective casing of the gatekeeper system . As such the gatekeeper system may be selected for the mobile device by scanning the identifier using the mobile device.

Once a gatekeeper system has been selected for each mobile device the method moves to step where the mobile device setting information is configured. In particular embodiments configuring the mobile device setting information may include indicating what tickets each mobile device is allowed to scan. In particular embodiments configuring the mobile device setting information may include accessing the mobile device information stored in the gatekeeper computing system and configuring the mobile device setting information in any manner. For example the mobile device setting information for a first mobile device may be configured to only allow the first mobile device to scan tickets with a Gate A priority. Additionally the mobile device setting information for a second mobile device may be configured to allow the second mobile device to scan any of the tickets.

At step on site management of spectator entry into an event is provided. In particular embodiments providing such on site management may include scanning a ticket identifier of a ticket and transmitting the ticket identifier to the gatekeeper computing system. In particular embodiments providing on site management may further include comparing the ticket identifier with the ticket information stored at the gatekeeper computing system generating an indication of validity of the ticket and transmitting the indication of validity to the mobile device so that the user of the mobile device may allow or deny entry to that spectator. In particular embodiments providing on site management may further include updating the stored ticket information on the gatekeeper computing system based on the comparison transmitting ticket indications to the event management system so that the event management system may update the master ticket information list and receiving update messages from the event management system so that the gatekeeper computing system may keep an updated ticket information.

After on site management of spectator entry into the event is provided the method moves to step where the method ends.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to method . For example one or more steps in method in may be performed in parallel or in any suitable order.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments a myriad of changes variations alterations transformations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present invention encompass such changes variations alterations transformations and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

