---

title: Antenna device and electronic device having the same
abstract: Provided are various embodiments related to an electronic device including an antenna device. According to an embodiment, an antenna device embedded in a display includes a film member provided between a plurality of display layers and multiple antenna portions including mesh-grid regions provided on the film member, in which a gap is formed between the multiple antenna portions such that the mesh-grid regions are discontinuously disposed in a spaced-apart relation. Other embodiments may also be possible.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652073&OS=09652073&RS=09652073
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09652073
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20151029
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application Serial number 10 2014 0148622 which was filed on Oct. 29 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to an antenna device that implements a wireless communication function and an electronic device having the antenna device.

Wireless communication techniques have been implemented in a variety of ways including commercialized mobile communication network connection and recently a wireless Local Area Network w LAN represented by Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC and so forth. A mobile communication service evolving from the 1st Generation 1G mobile communication service focusing on voice communication to the 4th Generation 4G mobile communication network provides Internet and multimedia services. A future next generation mobile communication service is expected to be provided in ultra high frequency bands over several tens of GHz. For example a mobile communication terminal complying with Long Term Evolution LTE based on the 3rd Generation Partnership Projection 3GPP commonly used around the world as one of leading standards of the 4G mobile communication basically supports bands of 700 MHz 960 MHz and 2.5 GHz 2.7 GHz.

As communication standards such as short range wireless communication or Bluetooth have been activated electronic devices for example mobile communication terminals have mounted antenna devices operating in various different frequency bands. For example a 4G mobile communication service operates in frequency bands of 700 MHz 1.8 GHz 2.1 GHz and so forth Wi Fi although slightly varying with rules operates in frequency bands of 2.4 GHz 5 GHz and the like and Bluetooth operates in a frequency band of 2.45 GHz.

A mobile communication terminal also needs an antenna device to enable wireless communication. The antenna device is installed and sufficiently spaced apart from the other circuit devices to suppress interference with the other circuit devices during transmission and reception of a high frequency signal. The antenna device is embedded in the mobile communication terminal.

The antenna device has requirements including superior radiation performance and large bandwidth in a small volume to meet the design tendency of the mobile communication terminal towards slimness and smaller sizes. In particular for an embedded antenna device the key point of antenna design is achieving superior radiation performance without changing the overall size of the antenna device because the space for mounting the antenna device in the mobile communication terminal is becoming smaller and smaller.

Thus a technique for including an antenna device in a display of the mobile communication terminal has been developed. Herein the display may be usually implemented with a touch panel.

However when the antenna device is embedded in the touch panel of the mobile communication terminal a touch function of the touch panel and a radiation performance of the antenna device degrade.

That is when the antenna device is inserted into the touch panel touch sensitivity degrades due to the formation of additional capacitance. Radiation performance one of the most important factors of an antenna also degrades.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure have been made to at least partially solve alleviate or remove at least one of the problems or disadvantages described above.

Various aspects of the present disclosure provide an antenna device having multiple antenna portions in which a gap is formed such that mesh grid regions are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation in a display thereby preventing a touch function of a display and radiation performance of an antenna from degrading. Accordingly various aspects of the present disclosure provide an electronic device having the antenna device.

Other objects to be provided in the present disclosure may be understood by embodiments described below.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure there is provided an antenna device embedded in a display the antenna device including a film member provided between a plurality of display layers and multiple antenna portions including mesh grid regions provided on the film member in which a gap is formed between the multiple antenna portions such that the mesh grid regions are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided an antenna device embedded in a display the antenna device includes a film member provided on the display multiple first antenna portions provided on a top surface of the film member to include mesh grid regions having a linear or curved direction and multiple second antenna portions provided on the top surface of the film member to include mesh grid regions having a right angle with respect to or being inclined at a predetermined angle with respect to the top surface of the film member. Further there is provided a first connection portion and a second connection portion configured to electrically connect the first antenna portions with the second antenna portions in which a gap is formed between the first antenna portion and the second antenna portion such that the mesh grid regions are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided an antenna device embedded in a display the antenna device including a film member provided on the display multiple first antenna portions provided on a top surface of the film member to include mesh grid regions having a linear or curved direction and multiple second antenna portions provided on a bottom surface of the film member to include mesh grid regions having a right angle with respect to or being inclined at a predetermined angle with respect to the top surface of the film member. Further there is provided a first connection portion and a second connection portion configured to electrically connect the first antenna portions with the second antenna portions in which the first and second antenna portions discontinuously dispose the mesh grid regions in a spaced apart relation on the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided an electronic device including an antenna device the electronic device including a film member provided on a display of the electronic device multiple first antenna portions provided on a top surface of the film member to include mesh grid regions having a linear or curved direction multiple second antenna portions provided on the top surface of the film member to include mesh grid regions having a right angle with respect to or being inclined at a predetermined angle with respect to the top surface of the film member. Further there is provided a first connection portion and a second connection portion configured to electrically connect the first antenna portions with the second antenna portions in which a gap is formed between the first antenna portion and the second antenna portion such that the mesh grid regions are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided an electronic device including an antenna device the electronic device including a film member provided on a display of the electronic device and multiple first antenna portions provided on a top surface of the film member to include mesh grid regions having a linear or curved direction multiple second antenna portions provided on a bottom surface of the film member to include mesh grid regions having a right angle with respect to or being inclined at a predetermined angle with respect to the top surface of the film member. Further there is provided a first connection portion and a second connection portion configured to electrically connect the first antenna portions with the second antenna portions in which the first and second antenna portions discontinuously dispose the mesh grid regions in a spaced apart relation on the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

Hereinafter terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in brief and various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in detail.

Terms and functions used in the present disclosure are mostly normal terms that are presently widely used but these terms may vary depending on an operator s intention or a precedent or emergence of a new technique. In some cases a term that is arbitrarily selected by an applicant exists and in this case a meaning thereof will be described in detail in a corresponding description of various embodiments of the present disclosure. Thus terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure should be defined based on the meanings thereof and the entire contents of the various embodiments of the present disclosure rather than simply based on the name thereof.

While terms including ordinal numbers such as first and second or the like may be used to describe various components such components are not limited to the above terms. The above terms are used only to distinguish one component from another. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component without departing from the scope of rights of the present invention and likewise a second component may be referred to as a first component.

Herein an electronic device connected to an audio device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described. First applications of the electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes any mobile communication terminals operating based on communication protocols corresponding to various communication systems and any information communication devices multimedia devices application devices thereof such as a video phone an electronic book e book reader a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player mobile medical equipment an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory a camera a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses an electronic cloth an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory an electronic tattoo and a smart watch.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance. The electronic device may include for example a Television TV a Digital Video DisC DVD player audio equipment a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a laundry machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of various medical equipment e.g. a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT an imaging device or an ultrasonic device a navigation system a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device electronic equipment for ships e.g. navigation system and gyro compass for ships avionics a security device a vehicle head unit an industrial or home robot an Automatic Teller s Machine ATM or a Point of Sales POS .

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include a part of a piece of furniture a portion of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various measuring instruments e.g. a water electricity gas or electric wave measuring device .

The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one of the above listed devices or a combination thereof. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. It will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above listed devices.

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include at least one of furniture a portion of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various measuring devices e.g. devices for measuring tap water electricity gas or a radio wave which have a communication function.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the above described various devices. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Furthermore it would be obvious to a person skilled in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the above described various devices.

As shown in a touch screen is disposed in the center of a front surface of the electronic device . The touch screen is formed to occupy most of the front surface of the electronic device . shows an example in which a main home screen is displayed on the touch screen . The main home screen is an initial screen displayed on the touch screen when the electronic device is powered on. When the electronic device has different home screens of several pages the main home screen is the first home screen among the home screens of the several pages. Shortcut icons for executing frequently used applications a main menu change key time weather and so forth are displayed on the home screen. The main menu change key may be used to display a menu screen on the touch screen . A status bar indicating a state such as a battery charge state strength of a received signal and a current time is formed in an upper portion of the touch screen .

The home button is intended to display the main home screen on the touch screen . For example when any home screen which is different from the main home screen or a menu screen is displayed on the touch screen the main home screen is displayed on the touch screen upon selection of the home button . If the home button is selected during execution of applications on the touch screen the main home screen is displayed on the touch screen . The home button is used to display recently used applications or a task manager on the touch screen .

The menu button provides a connection menu that is displayed on the touch screen . The connection menu includes for example a widget add menu a background change menu a search menu an edit menu and an environment setting menu.

The back button is used to display a screen that was displayed immediately before the currently executed screen or to terminate the most recently used application.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first camera an illumination sensor and a proximity sensor are disposed on an edge of the front surface of the electronic device in . The second camera the flash and the speaker are disposed on a rear surface of the electronic device in .

If a battery pack is configured to be removable from the electronic device the bottom surface of the electronic device may be a removable battery cover .

The electronic device to be described below may include any one of a laptop computer a netbook a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a Galaxy Tab and an iPad.

A metallic frame may be provided around the circumference of the touch screen to prevent an edge portion of the touch screen from being damaged by shock.

Referring to an electronic device in a network environment according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described. The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an Input Output I O interface a display module and a communication module . The bus is a circuit for interconnecting the components of an electronic device and for allowing communication e.g. a control message between the components described above.

The processor receives a command from other components e.g. the memory the I O interface the display and the communication module through the bus decrypts the received command and performs an operation or processes data according to the decrypted command.

The memory stores a command or data received from or generated by the processor or other components e.g. the input output interface the display module and the communication module . The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API or at least one application . These programming modules may include software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two of them.

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor and the memory used to execute an operation or a function implemented in the other programming modules for example the middleware the API and the at least one application . The kernel provides an interface through which the middleware the API or the at least one application accesses a separate component of the electronic device to control the separate component.

The middleware performs a relay operation such that the API or the at least one application exchanges data in communication with the kernel . The middleware controls e.g. scheduling or load balancing task requests received from the at least one application by using a method of assigning a priority for using a system resource e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to for example at least one of the applications .

The API is an interface through which the at least one application controls a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function e.g. command for for example file control window control image processing or character control.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the at least one application may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a healthcare application e.g. an application for measuring an exercise volume or a blood sugar level or an environment information application e.g. an application for providing air pressure humidity or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the at least one application may include an application associated with information exchange between the electronic device and the external electronic device . The application associated with information exchange may include a notification relay application for relaying particular information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device .

For example the notification relay application may include a function of relaying notification information generated in another application e.g. a SMS MMS application an e mail application a healthcare management application or an environment information application of the electronic device to the external electronic device e.g. the external electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may for example receive notification information from the external electronic device e.g. the external electronic device and provide the notification information to a user. The device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update a function of at least a part of the external electronic device e.g. the external electronic device communicating with the electronic device e.g. turn on turn off of the external electronic device or a part thereof or brightness or resolution adjustment of the display an application operating on the external electronic device or a service e.g. a call service or a message service provided on the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the at least one application may include an application designated according to an attribute e.g. a type of the external electronic device e.g. the external electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is an MP3 player the at least one application may include an application associated with music playback. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the at least one application may include an application associated with healthcare. According to some embodiments of the present disclosure the at least one application may include at least one of application designated in the electronic device and an application received from another electronic device e.g. the server or the external electronic device e.g. the external electronic device .

The I O interface may deliver a command or data input output from a user through an input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory and the communication module for example through the bus . For example the I O interface may provide data regarding a user s touch input through the touch screen to the processor . The I O interface may output the command or data received from the processor the memory and the communication module through the bus through an I O device e.g. a speaker or a display . The I O interface may include an audio module.

The display module may display various contents e.g. a text an image video an icon or a symbol to users.

The communication module sets up communication for example between the electronic device and an external device e.g. a first external electronic device or a server . For example the communication module is connected to a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device.

The wireless communication may include at least one of Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA a Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro or Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . The wired communication may include for example at least one of a universal serial bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Recommended Standard e.g. RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device may be supported in the at least one of application the API the middleware the kernel and the communication module .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a controller not pictured may include a processor and a memory for storing information required by the processor . The controller controls the overall operation of the electronic device as a Central Processing Unit CPU and performs an operation for supplying power to an antenna device for wireless communication as will be described below.

The antenna device is included in the display of the electronic device to transmit receive and process a wireless signal. An electronic device following the 4th Generation 4G mobile communication standard such as the LTE communication standard connects to a common use communication network in various frequency bands. For connection from one electronic device in various frequency bands an antenna device may include a plurality of antenna portions corresponding to the number of frequency bands.

Wireless communication of the antenna portion may include cellular communication Wi Fi BT GPS NFC and Radio Frequency RF communication.

The antenna portion may provide a voice call a video call a text service or an Internet service over a communication network. Each of Wi Fi BT GPS and NFC is implemented as a module which includes a processor for processing data transmitted and received through a corresponding terminal. According to an embodiment at least some e.g. two or more of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or IC package.

The RF module may transmit and receive for example a communication signal e.g. an RF signal . The RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amplification Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or an antenna. According to another embodiment at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit and receive an RF signal through a separate RF module.

Herein as shown in described below an antenna device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure includes multiple antenna portions and in which a gap is formed to discontinuously dispose mesh grid regions in a spaced apart relation improving visibility of the display and preventing a touch function of the display and radiation performance of the antenna portions and from being degraded. In the following description the radiation performance of the antenna portion may mean transmission and reception capabilities of the antenna device that is the capability of the antenna device to receive signals transmitted by other terminals with a minimum loss and the ability of the antenna device to transmit a transmission signal with a minimum loss over the air.

In addition the antenna device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with an example of an antenna included in the display but the present disclosure is not limited thereto. That is the antenna device may be variously applied if it transmits and receives a wireless signal.

Referring to the antenna device may include a film member provided on the display first antenna portions and second antenna portions and a first connection portion and a second connection portion .

The film member may be provided between a window portion of the display and a touch panel or touch screen panel TSP described below. That is the film member is stacked on the touch panel .

The first antenna portions are provided on a top surface of the film member to include the mesh grid regions having a linear or curved direction.

The second antenna portions are provided on the top surface of the film to include the mesh grid regions having a right angle or being inclined at a predetermined angle with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface.

The mesh grid regions and include X direction and Y direction mesh grid regions. The X direction mesh grid regions may include the mesh grid regions having the linear or curved direction. The Y direction mesh grid regions may include the mesh grid regions having the right angle or the predetermined angle with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface.

To electrically connect the mesh grid regions of the first antenna portions which have the linear or curved direction the first connection portion is provided between the mesh grid regions having the linear or curved direction.

To electrically connect the mesh grid regions of the second antenna portions which have the right angle or are inclined at the predetermined angle with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface the second connection portion is provided between the mesh grid regions having a right angle or being inclined at a predetermined angle with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface.

The second connection portion is in a bridge form to electrically connect the mesh grid regions having a right angle or being inclined at a predetermined angle with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface.

To discontinuously dispose the mesh grid regions and in a spaced apart relation between the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions the gap is formed allowing touch recognition of the touch panel while having the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions on the touch panel of the display and improving antenna performance by preventing the radiation performance of the antenna from degrading as well as improving visibility of the touch panel . Moreover the touch function of the touch panel and the antenna radiation performance may be implemented at the same time.

Herein the gap is formed on the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions to induce a capacitance of the touch panel .

The film member may include a polyethylene terephthalate PET film member. The film member will be described with an example of the PET film member but is not limited to the example. That is the film member may also use various materials as well as the PET film member.

The shape of the mesh grid regions and may be any one of a diamond shape a circular shape an oval shape a trapezoid shape a triangular shape a rectangular shape and a polygonal shape. The shape of the mesh grid regions and may also be other shapes as well as the above listed shapes.

In the mesh grid regions and AgNW Ag nano particles a metal mesh Indium Tin Oxide ITO graphene a Carbon Nano Tube CNT a Carbon Nano Balloon CNB and so forth which are conductive materials are used to form grids.

The size of the mesh grid regions and may vary to improve the visibility and touch function of the touch panel . That is a size A1 of the mesh grid regions and may be small as shown in and a size A2 of the mesh grid regions and may be large as shown in .

As shown in the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions may be disposed on a bottom surface of the film member . That is the mesh grid regions and of the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions may be discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation on the bottom surface of the film member by the gap .

Thus the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions completely discontinuously disposed by the gap in a spaced apart relation are formed on the bottom surface of the film member and in this state if the touch panel is touched the touch panel may prevent cross talk and additional capacitance from being generated between a first electrode of and a second electrode of provided on the touch panel by the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions . Thus a stable signal is generated between the first electrode of and the second electrode of and at the same time a signal applied from the first electrode Tx of is read by the second electrode Rx of improving the touch function.

As shown in the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions may be disposed on both the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member . That is the mesh grid regions and of the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions may be discontinuously disposed by the gap in a spaced apart relation on the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member .

As shown in the first antenna portions are disposed on the top surface of the film member and the second antenna portions are disposed on the bottom surface of the film member . That is the mesh grid regions of the first antenna portions which have the linear or curved direction are disposed on the top surface of the film member and the mesh grid regions of the second antenna portions which have a right angle or being inclined at a predetermined angle with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface are discontinuously disposed from the mesh grid regions having the linear or curved direction on the bottom surface of the film member .

That is the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions are disposed on the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member and at the same time are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation such that when the touch panel is touched the touch panel may prevent cross talk and additional capacitance from being generated between the first electrode of and the second electrode of provided on the touch panel by the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions that are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation. Thus a stable signal is generated between the first electrode of and the second electrode of and at the same time a signal applied from the first electrode Tx of is read by the second electrode Rx of improving the touch function.

As shown in the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions are disposed on the top surface of the film member . That is the mesh grid regions and of the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation by the gap on the top surface of the film member .

Adjacent to an area where the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions are disposed other first antenna portion and second antenna portion may be additionally disposed.

The first antenna portion is disposed on the top surface of the film member and the second antenna portion is disposed on the bottom surface of the film member . That is mesh grid regions of the first antenna portion which have the linear or curved direction are disposed on the top surface of the film member and mesh grid regions of the second antenna portion which have a right angle or are inclined with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation from the mesh grid regions having the linear or curved direction on the bottom surface of the film member .

That is the first antenna portion and the second antenna portion may be disposed on the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member and at the same time be discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation.

Thus the first and second antenna portions and and the first and second antenna portions and may be disposed together on the film member .

As shown in the first antenna portion and the second antenna portion are disposed on the bottom surface of the film member . That is the mesh grid regions and of the first antenna portion and the second antenna portion are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation by the gap on the bottom surface of the film member .

Adjacent to an area where the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions are disposed the first antenna portion and the second antenna portion may be additionally disposed.

The first antenna portion is disposed on the top surface of the film member and the second antenna portion is disposed on the bottom surface of the film member . That is the mesh grid regions of the first antenna portion which have the linear or curved direction are disposed on the top surface of the film member and the mesh grid regions of the second antenna portion which have a right angle or are inclined with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation from the mesh grid regions on the bottom surface of the film member .

That is the first antenna portion and the second antenna portion are disposed on the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member and at the same time are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation.

Thus the first and second antenna portions and and the first and second antenna portions and may be disposed together on the film member .

As shown in the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions are disposed on the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member . That is the mesh grid regions and of the first and second antenna portions and are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation on both the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member by the gap .

Adjacent to an area where the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions are disposed the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions may be further disposed.

The first antenna portions are disposed on the top surface of the film member and the second antenna portions are disposed on the bottom surface of the film member . That is the mesh grid regions of the first antenna portions which have the linear or curved direction are disposed on the top surface of the film member and the mesh grid regions of the second antenna portions which have the right angle or are inclined at the predetermined angle with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation from the mesh grid regions having the linear or curved direction on the bottom surface of the film member .

That is the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions are disposed on the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member and at the same time are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation.

Thus the first and second antenna portions and and the first and second antenna portions and may be disposed together on both the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member .

As shown in the first and second antenna portions and are disposed on the top surface of the film member of and the first and second antenna portions and are disposed adjacent to and in a non overlapping manner with the first and second antenna portions and . The first and second antenna portions and may be disposed on the bottom surface of the first and second antenna portions and in an overlapping manner with the first and second antenna portions and .

Thus the first and second antenna portions and and the first and second antenna portions and may overlap or may not overlap both the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member of .

First a plurality of display e.g. display in layers may include a touch panel and may further include a display panel including any one of a Liquid Crystal Display LCD panel a Light Emitting Diode LED panel an Organic LED OLED panel and an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AMOLED panel under the touch panel . In the current embodiment the display may also be applied to another display other than the above described configuration. In the current embodiment a touch panel will be described as an example.

As shown in the touch panel refers to a panel that recognizes coordinates of a particular position on the screen touched with human s fingers or other objects without using a separate input tool or device such as a keyboard a mouse or the like and executes a command of software designated corresponding to the touched position to process a particular function. A touch panel technique may be classified into a resistive type and a capacitive type. To implement a capacitive touch screen the first electrode includes a driving line Tx electrode and the second electrode including a sensing line Rx electrode need to be configured independently. The first electrode and the second electrode may form a pattern on a single layer or different layers. Intersections between the first electrode and the second electrode have to be separated from one another by an insulator and each intersection forms one coordinate X Y .

The touch panel may be classified into one of an InfraRed IR type a Surface Acoustic Wave SAW type an ElectroMagnetic EM type and an ElectroMagnetic Resonance EMR type as well as the resistive type and the capacitive type depending on driving principles. In the current embodiment the touch panel of the capacitive type mentioned above will be described.

For example the first electrode and the second electrode may include ITO Indium Tin Oxide in which stannic oxide SnO2 is added to indium oxide In2O3 . ITO has higher resistivity and higher transmissivity than existing metallic materials copper silver and so forth . Moreover the first electrode and the second electrode may also be formed of a conductive material such as metal mesh AgNW or the like as well as ITO. The first electrode and the second electrode may also other materials as well as the above disclosed conductive material.

Moreover the shape of the first electrode and the second electrode may include a diamond a mesh a snowflake Kyle a branch line a redwood a diamond ring a rose and the like. The first electrode and the second electrode may also have other various shapes as well as the disclosed shape.

As mentioned in the touch panel of the capacitive type detects a position touched on the display by using a change in capacitance between the sensing line electrode second electrode and the driving line electrode first electrode . For example at multiple intersections formed by multiple second electrodes Rx arranged along an X axis direction a horizontal axis direction and multiple first electrodes Tx arranged along a Y axis direction a vertical axis direction a capacitance is sequentially measured to sense a change in the capacitance at a particular point. That is in the touch panel of the capacitive type when a signal is applied from the first electrode Tx the other first electrode Tx is maintained at ground GND and all the second electrodes Rx simultaneously read current induced by the capacitance. Next the signal is applied to the first electrode Tx and the ground is applied to a previous electrode and the other electrodes and in this way the sequential process is performed.

However if the first and second antenna portions and where the gap is not formed are provided on the touch panel of the capacitive type additional capacitance is formed due to driving of the first and second antenna portions and failing touch recognition of the touch panel . As a result the touch function of the touch panel degrades.

Therefore in the current embodiment the first antenna portion and the second antenna portion completely discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation by the gap are provided on the touch panel as shown in . In this state if the touch panel is touched the touch panel may prevent cross talk and additional capacitance from being generated between the first electrode and the second electrode by the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions that are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation. Thus a stable signal is generated between the first electrode and the second electrode and at the same time the signal applied from the first electrode Tx is read by the second electrode Rx improving the touch function.

Moreover the first antenna portions and the second antenna portions being discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation prevents degradation of radiation performance of the antenna in transmission and reception of the signal of the antenna and also improves the performance of the antenna. Furthermore the touch function and the antenna radiation performance of the touch panel may be implemented at the same time and the visibility of the touch panel may be maintained.

The touch panel of the capacitive type may be embedded with the first and second antenna portions and without designing a separate touch Integrated Circuit IC thus reducing the manufacturing cost of the display .

Moreover as shown in in the touch panel of the first and second antenna portions and and the first and second antenna portions and may be disposed on the top surface of the film member of or may overlap the top surface and the bottom surface of the film member of .

In this state a Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit RFIC is electrically connected with the first and second antenna portions and and the first and second antenna portions and and is driven to transmit and receive a signal in a corresponding frequency band of each antenna portion.

Herein wireless communication of the antenna portion may include and on one of the 2nd Generation 2G 3rd Generation 3G 4th Generation 4G 5th Generation 5G WiFi BT GPS NFC ZigBee or the like and the wireless communication has a corresponding frequency band. A detailed frequency band has already been described above and thus will not be described at this time.

The touch IC senses a touch sensitivity change of the touch panel of for the corresponding frequency band and at the same time automatically adjusts its touch sensitivity when driving the first and second antenna portions and .

As shown in the first antenna portions and may include a first feeder provided on a side surface of an edge of the display to supply power through electric connection or electric coupling between a circuit board not shown provided on the electronic device of and the mesh grid regions and having the linear or curved direction.

As shown in the second antenna portions and may include a second feeder provided on a side surface of the edge of the display to supply power through electric connection or electric coupling between a circuit board not shown provided on the electronic device of and the mesh grid regions and which have a right angle or are inclined with respect to the mesh grid direction of the top surface.

As shown in the first and second antenna portions and are coupled to one another and at the same time their mesh grid regions and are discontinuously disposed in a spaced apart relation by the gap .

As shown in the mesh grid regions and are electrically connected by the first connection portion and the second connection portion .

Referring to at one end of the mesh grid regions and the first feeder and the second feeder may be provided on the side surface and the side surface of the edge of the display of . The first feeder and the second feeder may supply power to operate the antenna through electrical connection or electric coupling between the circuit board not shown provided on the electronic device of and the mesh grid regions.

Thus the first antenna portions and the second antenna portion supply power to the mesh grid regions and through the first feeder and the second feeder thus transmitting and receiving a signal of the antenna and driving the antenna without radiation performance degradation.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure by forming multiple antenna portions between which a gap is formed to discontinuously dispose mesh grid regions in a spaced apart relation on a display of an electronic device improves touch recognition of a touch panel provided in the display and prevents a touch function from being degraded and radiation performance of the antenna from being degraded due to an improvement of an antenna function. Moreover improving a touch function and radiation performance of the electronic device may be implemented at the same time.

Other effects that may be obtained or expected from the embodiments of the present disclosure are explicitly or implicitly disclosed in the detailed description of the embodiment of the present disclosure. For example various effects expected from the embodiments of the present disclosure have been disclosed in the detailed description of the present disclosure.

The embodiments of the present disclosure provided in the present specification and the drawings merely provide particular examples to easily describe the technical contents of the present disclosure and to facilitate understanding of the present disclosure rather than to limit the scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Thus the scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure should be construed as including any changes or modifications derived from the technical spirit of the embodiments of the present disclosure as well as the embodiments described herein.

