---

title: Manipulation of beads in droplets and methods for manipulating droplets
abstract: The invention provides a method of circulating magnetically responsive beads within a droplet in a droplet actuator. The invention also provides methods for splitting droplets. The invention, in one embodiment, makes use of a droplet actuator with top and bottom substrates, a plurality of magnetic fields respectively present proximate the top and bottom substrates, wherein at least one of the magnet fields is selectively alterable, and a plurality of droplet operations electrodes positioned along at least one of the top and bottom surfaces. A droplet is positioned between the top and bottom surfaces and at least one of the magnetic fields is selectively altered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09494498&OS=09494498&RS=09494498
owner: Advanced Liquid Logic, Inc.
number: 09494498
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151222
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 746 276 entitled Manipulation of Beads in Droplets and Methods for Manipulating Droplets filed Jun. 22 2015 the application of which is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 308 110 entitled Bead Incubation and Washing on a Droplet Actuator filed Jun. 18 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 086 345 issued Jul. 21 2015 the application of which is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 761 066 entitled Manipulation of Beads in Droplets and Methods for Manipulating Droplets filed Apr. 15 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 809 068 issued Aug. 19 2014 the application of which is A a continuation of and claims priority to International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 080264 entitled Manipulation of Beads in Droplets filed Oct. 17 2008 which claims priority to provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 60 980 782 entitled Manipulation of Beads in Droplets filed on Oct. 17 2007 and B a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 639 531 entitled Droplet Based Washing filed Dec. 15 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 613 889 issued Dec. 24 2013 which claims priority to provisional U.S. Patent Application Nos. 60 745 058 entitled Filler Fluids for Droplet Based Microfluidics filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 039 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based Blood Chemistry filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 043 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based PCR filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 059 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based Immunoassay filed on Apr. 18 2006 60 745 914 entitled Apparatus and Method for Manipulating Droplets with a Predetermined Number of Cells filed on Apr. 28 2006 60 745 950 entitled Apparatus and Methods of Sample Preparation for a Droplet Microactuator filed on Apr. 28 2006 60 746 797 entitled Portable Analyzer Using Droplet Based Microfluidics filed on May 9 2006 60 746 801 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Droplet Based Immuno PCR filed on May 9 2006 60 806 412 entitled Systems and Methods for Droplet Microactuator Operations filed on Jun. 30 2006 and 60 807 104 entitled Method and Apparatus for Droplet Based Nucleic Acid Amplification filed on Jul. 12 2006 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under DK066956 02 and CA114993 01A2 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Droplet actuators are used to conduct a wide variety of droplet operations. A droplet actuator typically includes two substrates separated by a gap. The substrates include electrodes for conducting droplet operations. The space is typically filled with a filler fluid that is immiscible with the fluid that is to be manipulated on the droplet actuator. The formation and movement of droplets is controlled by electrodes for conducting a variety of droplet operations such as droplet transport and droplet dispensing. There is a need for improvements to droplet actuators that facilitate handling of droplets with beads.

The invention provides a method of dispersing or circulating magnetically responsive beads within a droplet in a droplet actuator. The invention in one embodiment makes use of a droplet actuator with a plurality of droplet operations electrodes configured to transport the droplet and a magnet field present at a portion of the plurality of droplet operations electrodes. A bead containing droplet is provided on the droplet actuator in the presence of the uniform magnetic field. Beads are circulated in the droplet during incubation by conducting droplet operations on the droplet within a uniform region of the magnetic field. Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the ensuing description of the invention.

 Activate with reference to one or more electrodes means effecting a change in the electrical state of the one or more electrodes which results in a droplet operation.

 Bead with respect to beads on a droplet actuator means any bead or particle that is capable of interacting with a droplet on or in proximity with a droplet actuator. Beads may be any of a wide variety of shapes such as spherical generally spherical egg shaped disc shaped cubical and other three dimensional shapes. The bead may for example be capable of being transported in a droplet on a droplet actuator or otherwise configured with respect to a droplet actuator in a manner which permits a droplet on the droplet actuator to be brought into contact with the bead on the droplet actuator and or off the droplet actuator. Beads may be manufactured using a wide variety of materials including for example resins and polymers. The beads may be any suitable size including for example microbeads microparticles nanobeads and nanoparticles. In some cases beads are magnetically responsive in other cases beads are not significantly magnetically responsive. For magnetically responsive beads the magnetically responsive material may constitute substantially all of a bead or one component only of a bead. The remainder of the bead may include among other things polymeric material coatings and moieties which permit attachment of an assay reagent. Examples of suitable magnetically responsive beads are described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0260686 entitled Multiplex flow assays preferably with magnetic particles as solid phase published on Nov. 24 2005 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for its teaching concerning magnetically responsive materials and beads. The fluids may include one or more magnetically responsive and or non magnetically responsive beads. Examples of droplet actuator techniques for immobilizing magnetically responsive beads and or non magnetically responsive beads and or conducting droplet operations protocols using beads are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 639 566 entitled Droplet Based Particle Sorting filed on Dec. 15 2006 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 039 183 entitled Multiplexing Bead Detection in a Single Droplet filed on Mar. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 047 789 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Droplet Operations Using Beads filed on Apr. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 086 183 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods for Manipulating Beads filed on Aug. 5 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 053545 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods Employing Magnetically responsive beads filed on Feb. 11 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058018 entitled Bead based Multiplexed Analytical Methods and Instrumentation filed on Mar. 24 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058047 Bead Sorting on a Droplet Actuator filed on Mar. 23 2008 and International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

 Droplet means a volume of liquid on a droplet actuator that is at least partially bounded by filler fluid. For example a droplet may be completely surrounded by filler fluid or may be bounded by filler fluid and one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. Droplets may for example be aqueous or non aqueous or may be mixtures or emulsions including aqueous and non aqueous components. Droplets may take a wide variety of shapes nonlimiting examples include generally disc shaped slug shaped truncated sphere ellipsoid spherical partially compressed sphere hemispherical ovoid cylindrical and various shapes formed during droplet operations such as merging or splitting or formed as a result of contact of such shapes with one or more surfaces of a droplet actuator.

 Droplet Actuator means a device for manipulating droplets. For examples of droplets see U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 132 entitled Apparatus for Manipulating Droplets by Electrowetting Based Techniques issued on Jun. 28 2005 to Pamula et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 343 284 entitled Apparatuses and Methods for Manipulating Droplets on a Printed Circuit Board filed on filed on Jan. 30 2006 U.S. Pat. No. 6 773 566 entitled Electrostatic Actuators for Microfluidics and Methods for Using Same issued on Aug. 10 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 565 727 entitled Actuators for Microfluidics Without Moving Parts issued on Jan. 24 2000 both to Shenderov et al. Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Methods of the invention may be executed using droplet actuator systems e.g. as described in International Patent Application No. PCT US2007 009379 entitled Droplet manipulation systems filed on May 9 2007. In various embodiments the manipulation of droplets by a droplet actuator may be electrode mediated e.g. electrowetting mediated or dielectrophoresis mediated.

 Droplet operation means any manipulation of a droplet on a droplet actuator. A droplet operation may for example include loading a droplet into the droplet actuator dispensing one or more droplets from a source droplet splitting separating or dividing a droplet into two or more droplets transporting a droplet from one location to another in any direction merging or combining two or more droplets into a single droplet diluting a droplet mixing a droplet agitating a droplet deforming a droplet retaining a droplet in position incubating a droplet heating a droplet vaporizing a droplet condensing a droplet from a vapor cooling a droplet disposing of a droplet transporting a droplet out of a droplet actuator other droplet operations described herein and or any combination of the foregoing. The terms merge merging combine combining and the like are used to describe the creation of one droplet from two or more droplets. It should be understood that when such a term is used in reference to two or more droplets any combination of droplet operations sufficient to result in the combination of the two or more droplets into one droplet may be used. For example merging droplet A with droplet B can be achieved by transporting droplet A into contact with a stationary droplet B transporting droplet B into contact with a stationary droplet A or transporting droplets A and B into contact with each other. The terms splitting separating and dividing are not intended to imply any particular outcome with respect to size of the resulting droplets i.e. the size of the resulting droplets can be the same or different or number of resulting droplets the number of resulting droplets may be 2 3 4 5 or more . The term mixing refers to droplet operations which result in more homogenous distribution of one or more components within a droplet. Examples of loading droplet operations include microdialysis loading pressure assisted loading robotic loading passive loading and pipette loading. In various embodiments the droplet operations may be electrode mediated e.g. electrowetting mediated or dielectrophoresis mediated.

 Filler fluid means a fluid associated with a droplet operations substrate of a droplet actuator which fluid is sufficiently immiscible with a droplet phase to render the droplet phase subject to electrode mediated droplet operations. The filler fluid may for example be a low viscosity oil such as silicone oil. Other examples of filler fluids are provided in International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 and in International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 072604 entitled Use of additives for enhancing droplet actuation filed on Aug. 8 2008.

 Immobilize with respect to magnetically responsive beads means that the beads are substantially restrained in position in a droplet or in filler fluid on a droplet actuator. For example in one embodiment substantially immobilized beads are sufficiently restrained in position to permit execution of a splitting operation on a droplet yielding one droplet with substantially all of the beads and one droplet substantially lacking in the beads.

 Magnetically responsive means responsive to a magnetic field. Magnetically responsive beads include or are composed of magnetically responsive materials. Examples of magnetically responsive materials include paramagnetic materials ferromagnetic materials ferrimagnetic materials and metamagnetic materials. Examples of suitable paramagnetic materials include iron nickel and cobalt as well as metal oxides such as FeO BaFeO CoO NiO MnO CrO and CoMnP.

 Washing with respect to washing a magnetically responsive bead means reducing the amount and or concentration of one or more substances in contact with the magnetically responsive bead or exposed to the magnetically responsive bead from a droplet in contact with the magnetically responsive bead. The reduction in the amount and or concentration of the substance may be partial substantially complete or even complete. The substance may be any of a wide variety of substances examples include target substances for further analysis and unwanted substances such as components of a sample contaminants and or excess reagent. In some embodiments a washing operation begins with a starting droplet in contact with a magnetically responsive bead where the droplet includes an initial amount and initial concentration of a substance. The washing operation may proceed using a variety of droplet operations. The washing operation may yield a droplet including the magnetically responsive bead where the droplet has a total amount and or concentration of the substance which is less than the initial amount and or concentration of the substance. Other embodiments are described elsewhere herein and still others will be immediately apparent in view of the present disclosure.

The terms top and bottom are used throughout the description with reference to the top and bottom substrates of the droplet actuator for convenience only since the droplet actuator is functional regardless of its position in space.

When a liquid in any form e.g. a droplet or a continuous body whether moving or stationary is described as being on at or over an electrode array matrix or surface such liquid could be either in direct contact with the electrode array matrix surface or could be in contact with one or more layers or films that are interposed between the liquid and the electrode array matrix surface.

When a droplet is described as being on or loaded on a droplet actuator it should be understood that the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates using the droplet actuator to conduct one or more droplet operations on the droplet the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates sensing of a property of or a signal from the droplet and or the droplet has been subjected to a droplet operation on the droplet actuator.

The invention provides droplet actuators having specialized configurations for manipulation of droplets including beads and or for manipulation of beads in droplets. In certain embodiments the droplet actuators of the invention include magnets and or physical barriers manipulation of droplets including beads and or for manipulation of beads in droplets. The invention also includes methods of manipulating of droplets including beads and or for manipulation of beads in droplets as well as methods of making and using the droplet actuators of the invention. The droplet actuators of the invention are useful for among other things conducting assays for qualitatively and or quantitatively analyzing one or more components of a droplet. Examples of such assays include affinity based assays such as immunoassays enzymatic assays and nucleic acid assays. Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the ensuing discussion.

In certain embodiments the invention provides droplet actuators and methods for incubating beads. For example a sample including bead containing antibodies may be incubated on the droplet actuator in order to permit one or more target components to bind to the antibodies. Examples of target components include analytes contaminants cells such as bacteria and protozoa tissues and organisms such as multicellular parasites. In the presence of a magnet magnetic beads in the droplet may be substantially immobilized and may fail to circulate throughout the droplet. The invention provides various droplet manipulations during incubation of droplets on a droplet actuator in order to increase circulation of beads within the droplet and or circulation of droplet contents surrounding beads. It will be appreciated that in the various embodiments described below employing magnetically responsive beads beads that are not substantially magnetically responsive may also be included in the droplets.

In each step is illustrated on a path of electrodes . A magnet is associated with a subset of electrodes . Magnet is arranged relative to the electrodes such that a subset of electrodes are within a uniform region of the magnetic field produced by magnet . Bead clumping is reduced when the droplet is present in this uniform region.

In Step 1 droplet is located atop magnet . Beads are substantially immobilized in a distributed fashion adjacent to the droplet operations surface. The beads are generally less clumped than they would be in the presence of a non uniform region of the magnetic field. In Step 2 droplet is split using droplet operations into two sub droplets A B. During the splitting operation beads and liquid are circulated within the droplets A and B. In Step 3 Droplets A and B are merged using droplet operations into a single droplet . This merging operation is accomplished within the uniform region of the magnetic field. During the merging operation beads and liquid are further circulated within the droplets A and B.

In Step 4 droplet is transported using droplet operations along electrodes away from the magnet . As droplet moves away from magnet beads are pulled to the edge of droplet that nearest the magnet . Movement of beads within droplet provides further beneficial circulation of beads and liquid within the droplet . In Step 5 droplet is transported using droplet operations back to the step 1 position. Beads within the droplet are again dispersed in the presence of the uniform magnetic field of magnet . This redistribution of beads as droplet returns to its position within the uniform region of the magnetic field provides further beneficial circulation of beads and liquid within the droplet .

These steps may be conducted in any logical order. Each step may be conducted any number of times between the other steps. For example Steps 1 3 may be repeated multiple times before moving onto Step 4. Similarly Steps 3 5 may be repeated multiple times before returning to Steps 1 3. Moreover all steps are not required. For example in one embodiment an incubation step in an assay is accomplished by repeating Steps 1 3. In another embodiment an incubation step in an assay is accomplished by repeating Steps 3 5.

The incubation method of the invention is useful for enhancing circulation of magnetically responsive beads with the liquid in a droplet while the droplet remains in the presence of a magnetic field. Among other advantages the approach may reduce bead clumping and permit tighter droplet actuator designs making more efficient use of droplet actuator real estate.

In one embodiment the invention provides a droplet operations incubation scheme that does not allow magnetically responsive beads to be introduced into a region of the magnetic field which is sufficiently non uniform to cause bead clumping. In another embodiment the invention provides a merge and split incubation scheme that does not allow magnetically responsive beads to be introduced into a region of the magnetic field which is sufficiently non uniform to cause bead clumping. In yet another embodiment the invention provides a droplet transport incubation scheme that does not allow magnetically responsive beads to be introduced into a region of the magnetic field which is sufficiently non uniform to cause bead clumping.

Any combination of droplet operations which result in effective mixing e.g. substantially complete mixing may be chosen. Mixing is complete when it is sufficient for conducting the analysis being undertaken. The droplet may be oscillated in the presence of the uniform region of the magnetic field by transporting the droplet back and forth within the uniform region. In some cases electrode sizes used for the oscillation may be varied to increase circulation within the droplet. In some cases droplet operations electrodes are used to effect droplet operations to transport a droplet back and forth or in one or more looping patterns. Preferably the oscillation pattern does not allow to be introduced into a region of the magnetic field which is sufficiently uniform to cause bead clumping.

In some cases droplet operations are performed at an edge of the magnet to more equally redistribute the magnetically responsive beads. In some cases droplet operations are performed performed away from the magnet followed by transporting the droplet.

In Step 1 beads are substantially immobilized along the surface of the droplet operations electrodes due to the magnetic field of the magnet . I Step 2 droplet is split using droplet operations into two droplets both remaining in the uniform region of the magnetic field. In step 4 the two droplets are transported away from the magnet thereby attracting the beads to the edge of the two droplets nearest the magnet . This operation causes flow reversal within the droplets which enhances effective mixing. The two droplets may alternatively be transported away from the magnet in different directions such as in opposite directions. In Step 4 the two droplets are merged into one droplet . In step 5 the droplet is transported back to the step 1 position causing the beads to disperse within the droplet .

In Step 1 sample with beads in the droplet is provided on droplet actuator. Beads are substantially immobilized along the surface of the droplet operations electrodes due to the magnetic field of the first magnet A that is located at lane A of the electrode loop. In Step 2 the droplet is split using droplet operations into two droplets distributing the beads in the two droplets at lane A of the electrode loop. In Step 3 the two droplets are transported using droplet operations in opposite directions away from the first magnet A at lane A and toward the second magnet B that is located at lane B of the electrode loop. In Step 4 in the presence of the second magnet B at lane B droplets are merged into one droplet .

In Steps 5 6 not shown the process of steps 1 3 may be essentially repeated in reverse. In step 5 droplet may be split into two droplets distributing the beads in the two droplets at lane B. In Step 6 droplets are transported in opposite directions away from the second magnet B at lane B and back to the first magnet A at lane A. In Step 7 in the presence of the first magnet A at lane A droplets are merged into one droplet .

The droplet split and merge operation as described above provide efficient dispersion of beads in the presence of a magnet thereby improving the efficiency of the binding of antibodies and the analyte. The various droplet operations may be conducted in primarily or completely in uniform regions of the magnetic fields generated by magnets A B. Alternatively the droplet split and merge operation as described above may be performed away from the magnet and or near the edge of the magnet.

Because of the presence of multiple magnets which are used to immobilize magnetically responsive beads during washing the magnetically responsive beads in the reservoir tend to become aggregated sometimes irreversibly. When bead containing droplets are dispensed using droplet operations bead aggregation may cause the number of beads that are present in each dispensed droplet to vary. Variation in bead dispensing may affect the assay result which is not desirable. The invention as shown in provides magnetic shield in the area under the electrode array of the droplet actuator . The magnetic shield may be formed of alloys such as Mu metal foil which shields the magnetically responsive beads within the electrode array from stray magnetic fields .

In one embodiment the arrangement involves an array of alternately placed magnets e.g. as shown in . In general magnets may be located in any position which supplies a magnetic field to the vicinity of the droplet operations surface where the magnetic field is desired and eliminates or weakens the magnetic field in other areas where the magnetic field is not desired. In one embodiment a first magnet produces a first magnetic field where it is desirable to immobilize magnetically responsive beads in a droplet while a second magnet produces a second magnetic field which cancels or weakens a portion of the first magnetic field. This arrangement produces a device in which a portion of the droplet operations surface that would have otherwise been influenced by the first magnetic field is subjected to a weak or absent field because the first magnetic field has been cancelled or weakened by the second magnetic field.

In one embodiment one or more of the magnets is fixed in relation to the droplet operations surface and the invention comprises conducting one or more droplet operations using droplets that contain magnetically responsive beads where the droplets are in proximity to one or more magnets and are in the presence or absence of a magnetic field.

In another embodiment the magnetic field exerts sufficient influence over magnetically responsive beads that the droplets may be substantially immobile during one droplet operation such as a splitting operation and yet not so stable that the droplets are restrained from being transported away from the magnetic field with the magnet. In this embodiment the droplet may be surrounded by a filler fluid and yet the droplet with the magnetically responsive beads may be transported away from the magnetic with substantially no loss of magnetically responsive beads to the filler fluid.

Referring to a process of resuspension of beads within a reservoir by having multiple electrodes within the same reservoir may include but is not limited to the following steps. In Step 1 beads are aggregated within the solution due to the presence of multiple magnets not shown . In Step 2 electrodes within the reservoir are used to subject the solution to droplet operations thereby resuspension of the beads . The electrode activation sequence may be randomized to create more chaotic flow fields for more efficient resuspension. The liquid may be split and merged and subjected to other droplet operations.

During the above described process the electrode activation sequence may be chosen such that the beads are mixed well by means of droplet operations. Additionally when dispensing e.g. pulling out a finger of fluid a bead droplet from the electrode array of the reservoir all the electrodes within the reservoir may be switched ON and OFF at the same time depending on the requirement. It should be noted that an almost infinite variety of electrode shapes is possible. Any shape which is capable of facilitating a droplet operation will suffice.

The resuspension process may be repeated between every 1 2 3 4 5 or more droplet dispensing operations. The resuspend and dispense pattern may be adjusted as required based on the specific characteristics of bead types and droplet compositions. For example in one embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 95 consistency in bead count. In another embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 99 consistency in bead count. In another embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 99.9 consistency in bead count. In another embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 99.99 consistency in bead count.

In Step 1 beads are aggregated within the solution due to the presence of multiple magnets not shown . In Step 2 a finger of solution that includes beads is pulled out of the reservoir using droplet operations. In Step 3 a 2 slug is dispensed by splitting the middle of the finger of solution . In Step 4 the 2 slug is merged back with the solution that includes magnetically responsive beads within the reservoir .

Steps 2 through 4 may be repeated until the desired degree of resuspension is achieved e.g. until substantially completely resuspended beads are obtained within the bead solution of the reservoir . When the desired degree of resuspension is achieved bead containing droplets may be dispensed achieving a target percentage of variation in each droplet.

The resuspension process may be repeated between every 1 2 3 4 5 or more droplet dispensing operations. The resuspend and dispense pattern may be adjusted as required based on the specific characteristics of bead types and droplet compositions. For example in one embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 95 consistency in bead count. In another embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 99 consistency in bead count. In another embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 99.9 consistency in bead count. In another embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 99.99 consistency in bead count.

The resuspension process may be repeated between every 1 2 3 4 5 or more droplet dispensing operations. The resuspend and dispense pattern may be adjusted as required based on the specific characteristics of bead types and droplet compositions. For example in one embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater that 95 consistency in bead count. In another embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 99 consistency in bead count. In another embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 90.9 consistency in bead count. In another embodiment the process of the invention results in dispensing bead containing droplets with greater than 90.99 consistency in bead count.

Electromagnets and may be used to improve dispersion of magnetically responsive beads . Improved dispersion may for example to improve binding efficiency of antibodies and analytes to the surface of the beads. By providing an electromagnet on the top and bottom of the droplet the magnetically responsive beads may be effectively dispersed within the droplet by switching ON and OFF the magnetic fields of electromagnets and . In one example shows the electromagnet turned ON and the electromagnet turned OFF which causes the beads to be attracted to the electromagnet and are therefore pulled to the electromagnet side of the droplet . Subsequently electromagnet is turned ON and electromagnet is turned OFF which causes the beads to be attracted to electromagnet and are therefore pulled to the electromagnet side of the droplet . Alternating the activation of electromagnets and may be repeated until resuspension of the beads is substantially achieved. shows both electromagnets and turned ON at the same time which causes a pillar of beads to form through droplet . Various changes in the configuration of magnet activation ON ON ON OFF OFF ON and OFF OFF may be used to circulate magnetically responsive beads within droplet . In some embodiments the pattern of magnet activation may be randomized. Examples include ON OFF OFF ON ON OFF OFF ON ON OFF etc. ON ON ON OFF OFF ON ON ON ON OFF OFF ON ON ON ON OFF OFF ON etc ON ON ON OFF OFF ON OFF OFF ON ON ON OFF OFF ON OFF OFF ON ON ON OFF OFF ON OFF OFF etc. ON OFF OFF OFF OFF ON OFF OFF ON OFF OFF OFF OFF ON OFF OFF ON OFF OFF OFF OFF ON OFF OFF etc. Various other magnet activation patterns will be apparent to one of skill in the art in light of the present specification.

Referring to a process of providing improved dispersion of magnetically responsive beads by use of a magnet arrangement such as shown in may include but is not limited to the following steps.

Step 1 Magnet OFF magnet ON magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet OFF and magnet OFF which causes the magnetically responsive beads to be attracted toward magnet .

Step 2 Magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet ON magnet OFF magnet OFF and magnet OFF which causes the magnetically responsive beads to be attracted toward magnet .

Step 3 not shown Magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet OFF and magnet ON which causes the magnetically responsive beads to be attracted toward magnet .

Step 4 not shown Magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet ON and magnet OFF which causes the magnetically responsive beads to be attracted toward magnet .

Step 5 not shown Magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet ON magnet OFF and magnet OFF which causes the magnetically responsive beads to be attracted toward magnet .

Step 6 not shown Magnet ON magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet OFF magnet OFF and magnet OFF which causes the magnetically responsive beads to be attracted toward magnet .

Steps 1 through 6 may be repeated until a desired degree of dispersion or circulation of magnetically responsive beads and liquid is achieved.

Mechanical movement of the magnets A and B disperses or otherwise circulates magnetically responsive beads and liquids within the droplet. In one example shows both magnets A and B in close proximity to the droplet actuator which causes a pillar of beads to form through the droplet . In another example shows the magnet A only may be moved mechanically by a distance x where substantially no magnetic field of magnet A reaches the magnetically responsive beads and thus the beads are attracted toward the magnet B thereby dispersing the beads . In like manner the magnet B only may be moved mechanically by a distance x where substantially no magnetic field of magnet B reaches the magnetically responsive beads and thus the beads are attracted toward the first magnet A thereby dispersing the beads . By for example alternating the mechanical movement of the magnets effective dispersion of magnetically responsive beads is substantially ensured. In some embodiments both magnets are moved. Magnets may be oscillated to rapidly circulate beads and liquids within the droplet.

The process may include without limitation the following steps. In step 1 after immobilizing the magnetically responsive beads to a localized area in the presence of magnet droplet operations electrodes are activated to extend droplet into a 4 slug of liquid that extents beyond the boundary of magnet . In Step 2 droplet operations electrode is deactivated and the next two droplet operations electrodes remain on and a third droplet operations electrode is activated to provide the asymmetric split. The process may for example be employed in a merge and split bead washing protocol.

The process may include without limitation the following steps. In Step 1 a small hydrophilic patch which is patterned on the top substrate not shown and opposite a certain droplet operations electrode immobilizes the aqueous slug and the magnet immobilizes the magnetically responsive beads . In Step 2 a droplet splitting operation is executed e.g. forming droplets and . The hydrophilic patch ensures droplet splitting at the same point in relation to the droplet operations electrode that is downstream of the hydrophilic patch . In this example the magnetically responsive beads remain substantially immobilized in droplet by the magnet and droplet is substantially free of beads . The process may for example be employed in a merge and split bead washing protocol.

The process may include but is not limited to the following steps. In Step 1 magnetic strip immobilizes the magnetically responsive beads in an aqueous slug . In Step 2 a droplet splitting operation occurs e.g. forming droplets and whereby the magnetically responsive beads remain substantially immobilized in droplet by the magnetic strip and droplet is substantially free of beads . The process may for example be employed in a merge and split bead washing protocol.

The process may include but is not limited to the following steps. In Step 1 magnet immobilizes the magnetically responsive beads in for example an aqueous slug . The aqueous slug is intersected by the physical barrier which reduces the gap. In Step 2 a droplet splitting operation occurs e.g. forming droplets and whereby the magnetically responsive beads remain substantially immobilized by the magnet and the physical barrier is used to reduce the gap at the point of splitting thereby assisting the droplet splitting operation. In this example magnetically responsive beads remain substantially immobilized in droplet by the magnet and droplet is substantially free of beads . For example substantially all of the magnetically responsive beads may remain in droplet while droplet may be substantially free of magnetically responsive beads . The process may for example be employed in a merge and split bead washing protocol.

The process may include but is not limited to the following steps. In Step 1 the magnetic physical barrier immobilizes the magnetically responsive beads in the aqueous slug . The aqueous slug is intersected by the magnetic physical barrier which reduces the gap. In Step 2 a droplet splitting operation is executed e.g. forming droplets and whereby the magnetically responsive beads remain substantially immobilized by the magnetic physical barrier and the magnetic physical barrier is used to reduce the gap at the point of splitting thereby assisting the droplet splitting operation. In this example magnetically responsive beads remain substantially immobilized in droplet by magnetic physical barrier and droplet is substantially free of beads . The process may for example be employed in a merge and split bead washing protocol.

In another example shows an electrode path that includes a splitting region that includes a tapered electrode that may span a distance equivalent for example to about two standard droplet operations electrodes. In operation a droplet may be extended along electrodes of the electrode path across tapered electrode . Electrode or the adjacent electrode may be deactivated to controllably split the droplet.

In yet another example shows an electrode pattern that includes a splitting region that includes a long tapered electrode and a short tapered electrode where the smallest end of the tapered electrodes face one another. The tapered electrode pair may span a distance equivalent for example to about three standard droplet operations electrodes. In operation a droplet may be extended along electrodes of the electrode path across tapered electrodes and . Electrode and or electrode may be deactivated to controllably split the droplet.

In yet another example shows an electrode pattern that includes a splitting region that includes a long tapered electrode and a short interlocking electrode where the smallest end of the tapered electrode faces the interlocking electrode . The electrode pair may span a distance equivalent for example to about three standard droplet operations electrodes. In operation a droplet may be extended along electrodes of the electrode path across tapered electrodes and . Electrode and or electrode may be deactivated to controllably split the droplet.

In yet another example shows an electrode pattern that includes a splitting region that includes a segmented electrode such as multiple row or columns of electrode strips. n operation a droplet may be extended along electrodes of the electrode path across splitting region . Each segment may be independently deactivated as desired to controllably split the droplet.

A process for the detection of supernatant after adding a substrate to the assayed magnetically responsive beads is disclosed in accordance with the invention. After the washing protocol to remove the excess unbound antibody is complete a chemiluminescent substrate is added to the assayed and washed beads which produces chemiluminescence as a result of the reaction between the enzyme on the beads and the substrate.

The substrate may be incubated with the magnetically responsive beads for some fixed time where the magnetically responsive beads are substantially immobilized and the supernatant is transported away for detection. This approach reduces preferably entirely eliminates the need to transport the magnetically responsive bead droplet over long distances to the detector and also reduces preferably entirely eliminates the possibility of loss of beads during the transport operation.

Alternatively the antibody antigen enzyme complex can be released from the bead by chemical or other means into the supernatant. The beads may then be substantially immobilized and the supernatant processed further for detection.

Additionally the same split merge and transport strategies that are explained for incubating beads antibodies sample mixture may be employed here also for incubating substrate and assayed beads.

Bead based sandwich or competitive affinity assays such as ELISAs may be performed using the procedures described in this application in conjunction with various steps described in International Patent Application No. PCT US 06 47486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006. Further after incubation unbound sample material and excess reporter antibody or reporter ligand may be washed away from the bead antibody antigen complex using various droplet operations. A droplet of substrate e.g. alkaline phosphatase substrate APS 5 may be delivered to the bead antibody antigen complex. During incubation the substrate is converted to product which begins to chemiluminesce. The decay of the product which generates light is sufficiently slow that the substrate product droplet can be separated from the alkaline phosphatase antibody complex and still retain a measurable signal. After an incubation period of the substrate with the bead antibody antigen complex seconds to minutes the magnetically responsive bead antibody antigen complex may be retained with a magnetic field e.g. see U.S. Patent Application No. 60 900 653 filed on Feb. 9 2007 entitled Immobilization of magnetically responsive beads during droplet operations or by a physical barrier e.g. see U.S. Patent Application No. 60 881 674 filed on Jan. 22 2007 entitled Surface assisted fluid loading and droplet dispensing the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference and only the substrate product droplet may be presented using droplet operations to the sensor e.g. PMT for quantitation of the product.

The substrate product droplet alone is sufficient to generate a signal proportional to the amount of antigen in the sample. Incubation of the substrate with the magnetically responsive bead antibody antigen complex produces enough product that can be quantitated when separated from the enzyme e.g. alkaline phosphatase . By measuring the product in this manner the bead antibody antigen complex does not have to be presented to the PMT. There are no beads or proteins to foul the detector area as they are never moved to this area. Also the product droplet does not have to oscillate over the detector to keep beads in suspension during quantitation. The droplet volume may also be reduced in the absence of beads. Detection of the bead antibody antigen complex may employ a slug of liquid e.g. 4 droplets to move the complex whereas with the beadless method the droplet could be smaller e.g. less than 4 droplets . Time to result may also be shorter with this approach when performing multiplex ELISAs because the product droplet can be moved to the detector more quickly in the absence of beads.

Bead based sandwich or competitive affinity assays such as ELISAs may be performed using droplet operations for one or more steps such as combining sample capture beads and reporter antibody or reporter ligand. After incubation unbound sample material and excess reporter antibody or reporter ligand may be washed away from the bead antibody antigen complex using an on chip washing protocol. After washing a droplet of substrate e.g. alkaline phosphatase substrate APS 5 may be delivered to the bead antibody antigen complex. During the incubation the substrate is converted to product which begins to chemiluminesce. The decay of the product which generates light is sufficiently slow that the substrate product droplet can be separated from the alkaline phosphatase antibody complex and still retain a measurable signal. After an incubation period of the substrate with the bead antibody antigen complex seconds to minutes the magnetically responsive bead antibody antigen complex may be retained with a magnet or by a physical barrier and only the substrate product droplet may be presented using droplet operations to the sensor e.g. PMT for quantitation of the product.

The substrate product droplet alone is sufficient to generate a signal proportional to the amount of antigen in the sample. Incubation of the substrate with the magnetically responsive bead antibody antigen complex produces enough product that can be quantitated when separated from the enzyme e.g. alkaline phosphatase . By measuring the product in this manner the bead antibody antigen complex does not have to be presented to the PMT. There are no beads or proteins to foul the detector area as they are never moved to this area. Also the product droplet does not have to oscillate over the detector to keep beads in suspension during quantitation. The droplet volume may also be reduced in the absence of beads. Detection of the bead antibody antigen complex may employ a slug of liquid e.g. 4 droplets to move the complex whereas with the beadless method the droplet could be smaller e.g. less than 4 droplets . Time to result may also be shorter with this approach when performing multiplex ELISAs because the product droplet can be moved to the detector more quickly in the absence of beads.

For examples of fluids that may be subjected to droplet operations using the approach of the invention see the patents listed in section 2 especially International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006. In some embodiments the fluid includes a biological sample such as whole blood lymphatic fluid serum plasma sweat tear saliva sputum cerebrospinal fluid amniotic fluid seminal fluid vaginal excretion serous fluid synovial fluid pericardial fluid peritoneal fluid pleural fluid transudates exudates cystic fluid bile urine gastric fluid intestinal fluid fecal samples fluidized tissues fluidized organisms biological swabs biological washes liquids with cells tissues multicellular organisms single cellular organisms protozoa bacteria fungal cells viral particles organelles. In some embodiment the fluid includes a reagent such as water deionized water saline solutions acidic solutions basic solutions detergent solutions and or buffers. In some embodiments the fluid includes a reagent such as a reagent for a biochemical protocol such as a nucleic acid amplification protocol an affinity based assay protocol a sequencing protocol and or a protocol for analyses of biological fluids.

The fluids may include one or more magnetically responsive and or non magnetically responsive beads. Examples of droplet actuator techniques for immobilizing magnetically responsive beads and or non magnetically responsive beads are described in the foregoing international patent applications and in Sista et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 60 900 653 entitled Immobilization of Magnetically responsive Beads During Droplet Operations filed on Feb. 9 2007 Sista et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 60 969 736 entitled Droplet Actuator Assay Improvements filed on Sep. 4 2007 and Allen et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 60 957 717 entitled Bead Washing Using Physical Barriers filed on Aug. 24 2007 the entire disclosures of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing detailed description of embodiments refers to the accompanying drawings which illustrate specific embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments having different structures and operations do not depart from the scope of the present invention. This specification is divided into sections for the convenience of the reader only. Headings should not be construed as limiting of the scope of the invention. The definitions are intended as a part of the description of the invention. It will be understood that various details of the present invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation as the present invention is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter.

