---

title: Two wire sonar telemetry
abstract: The invention is a two wire telemetry system for an entire towed underwater acoustic sonar array system wherein power and data signals are now shared on a single wire (with a second wire as return) throughout the towed array. Ship electrical power is transmitted from a direct current source onto the tow cable for all of the array nodes to operate on. Downlink commands are also sent to the array nodes via the tow cable. Uplink data is sent up the tow cable to the towing vessel for data storage. A bi-directional time sharing communication protocol allows each node on the array as well as the command and control on the towing vessel a portion of time to transmit signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501926&OS=09501926&RS=09501926
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09501926
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150930
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to electronic telemetry systems and more particularly to a sonar telemetry system that combines power and data signals on the same wire in an effort to reduce the number of wires in a towed array system including the tow cable and all of the nodes of the array.

Underwater towed acoustic sonar array reliability is a concern. Reducing the number of wires in a towed array system improves the array performance and reliability while also decreasing fabrication and testing time. The concept of reducing the number of wires in an electrical system to improve performance and reliability gained widespread use in the telecommunications industry as exhibited by the of use only two wires for telephone circuitry. What is needed is a sonar telemetry system for an underwater towed acoustic sonar array that incorporates power and data on the same wire while sharing a common return or ground wire and also incorporates a scheme for bi directional data flow between all telemetry nodes.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to improve the performance and reliability of an underwater towed acoustic sonar array.

It is also an object to decrease the fabrication and testing time of an underwater towed acoustic sonar array.

These objects are accomplished through the use of a two wire telemetry system that injects ship electrical power from a direct current source onto the tow cable for all of the array nodes to operate on. Downlink commands are also sent to the array nodes via the tow cable. Uplink data is sent up the tow cable to the towing vessel for data storage. A bi directional communication protocol allows each node on the array as well as the command and control on the towing vessel a portion of time to transmit data back and forth.

Referring to there is illustrated a system that utilizes two wires to distribute power and communicate bidirectional data throughout an entire towed acoustic sonar array having N nodes for use with a surface or underwater vehicle that is deploying the towed array . Power direct current voltage range is dependent upon the generator in use and data the frequency of the data rate is dependent on the type of array in use are combined on a first wire at the surface or underwater vehicle. A second wire serves as the ground for the entire system.

In alternate embodiments the system may comprise forty channels two channels per node 1 kHz sample rate sixteen bit sampling case 1 or five hundred channels two channels per node 250 Hz sample rate twelve bit sampling case 2 . In order to accurately sample and reconstruct the data the data must be sampled at a rate at least twice the highest frequency component in the data. This rate is commonly referred to as the Nyquist sampling rate. Dividing the sample rate in each configuration case case 1 and case 2 by two would yield the maximum frequency that could be sampled however this assumes perfect signal filtering which is impossible to achieve in practice. Therefore to include some of the effects of the sensor each sample rate is divided by a factor of 2.5 as design frequency is around 40 of the sample rate yielding design frequencies of approximately 400 Hz in case 1 and approximately 100 Hz in case 2.

The speed of sound in water is related to the wavelength and the design frequency of each case by the following equation Speed of sound in water Wavelength Frequency. Where the speed of sound in water is approximately 4800 feet per second and the frequency is the design frequency for each case. This equation yields wavelengths of 12 feet for case 1 and 48 feet for case 2. However to prevent aliasing the spacing between the sensors is equal to half of the wavelength. This yields a spacing of six feet between the sensors in case 1 and a spacing of twelve feet between the sensors in case 2. Throughput is calculated as Throughput Fs bits channels overhead. Where Fs is the sampling rate bits is the number of bits used in the sampling scheme and the channels is the number of channels used in the telemetry system. Overhead is the number of bits used for information regarding the data that was sampled. Overhead is neglected in the following calculations Case 1 throughput 1 kHz 16 bits 40 channels 640 kilobits per second kbps Case 2 throughput 250 Hz 12 bits 500 channels 1.5 megabits per second Mbps .

The combined power and data signal is transmitted down the tow cable downlink to the individual nodes on the towed array . Each array node filters the combined power and data signal. Power is recovered as a separate power signal through a low pass filtering power de coupler . Data is recovered as a separate data signal through a high pass filtering data decoder . This data is then processed by the node telemetry logic . Each node has an acoustic sensor joined to the analog front end of the node that provides a data sample. For each node the data sample is encoded by the node data encoder on to the first wire and transmitted back to the surface or underwater vehicle uplink . A bi directional communication protocol facilitates the uplink and downlink transmissions eliminating bus contention concerns.

The system is implemented on an inductor capacitor network called the bias tee circuit consisting of one inductor and one capacitor. An example of a bias tee circuit is illustrated in . The direct current DC source is applied to the first lead of an inductor L. A data source which can be thought of as an alternating current AC signal is applied to the first lead of a capacitor C. A capacitor C is used to block the DC source from entering the path back to the AC source. The inductor L in turn prevents the data signal from entering the path back to the DC source. However where the inductor s and capacitor s terminals meet the data AC signal and DC source are combined together.

When dealing with a conductor which is long in length such as the tow cable the conductor has parasitic resistances capacitances and inductances while shorter conductors would have negligible parasitics. In a preferred embodiment the resistance of the tow cable is calculated to be 17.03 Ohms.

In a preferred embodiment the two types of data generated in the system of the present invention are referred to as the uplink and downlink. The uplink is comprised of the acoustic data sampled by the acoustic sensors as well as header information that precedes the acoustic data. The header information includes specifics pertaining to the uplink data being transmitted as well as system status. The downlink is comprised of the commands sent to the telemetry logic such as gain control commands. The bi directional communication protocol allots predetermined amounts of time to transmit either the uplink or the downlink.

In the case of downlink the data is generated in the surface or underwater vehicle by a user and encoded onto the tow cable via a power data encoder . The downlink data is only transmitted down the tow cable during its allotted time frame. Power is also fed into the power data encoder and placed onto the tow cable. Power will always be present on the tow cable independent of transmission.

In the case of uplink the acoustic data is sampled and processed by the analog front end and telemetry node logic . The processed data is then encoded onto the tow cable via the data encoder and transmitted to the surface or underwater vehicle . Each node transmits during its allotted time frame. The surface or underwater vehicle utilizes a data decoder to recover the uplink data from the combined power and data signal .

In addition each node contains a power decoupler that removes any existing data on the line. The power signal is then conditioned to power the node s telemetry logic analog front end and associated circuitry.

The architecture for the telemetry system is a shared bus implementation where each node is connected to the tow cable . The main disadvantage with this scheme is that with each telemetry node attached to the shared bus the design must be robust enough to overcome the parasitic effects of each of the nodes . With all of the nodes essentially in a parallel configuration a larger parasitic capacitance is seen by the node trying to communicate. This limits high frequency communications as the signal could become quite degraded at high frequencies.

In the bi directional data flow half duplex scheme of the present invention a certain amount of time must be reserved for uplink acoustic data sent up to the ship from the nodes and a certain amount of time must be reserved for downlink data sent down to the nodes such as gain commands . Furthermore each node will be assigned a certain amount of time for it to transmit up the tow cable. A diagram illustrating one data frame can be found in . The header allows the receiver to make sense of the incoming data fairly easily by understanding what the header is saying about the data . The header bits contain the following A sync word 16 bits in length. The sync word will be a pre determined constant value that can be compared at the ship or underwater vehicle to the incoming data stream. Checking for this sync word tells the receiver where each frame of data begins A frame counter 16 bits in length. The frame counter will start at value 0x0000 and increment by one with each frame. The frame counter will serve as a reference point for missing frames of data A cyclic redundancy check CRC 16 bits in length. The CRC provides a means to ensure that none of the data bits were accidentally inverted or corrupted Finally a status byte of 8 bits is utilized to transmit a status code that can be deciphered at the ship or underwater vehicle to determine the status of telemetry system .

The amount of time associated with each frame of data will be equal to the reciprocal of the candidate towed array sampling rate. For case 1 this amount of time is 1 millisecond ms and for case 2 the amount of time would be 4 ms. In case 1 each of the 20 nodes has two channels at 16 bits per channel. Therefore each node will need enough time to transmit 32 bits plus one start bit and one stop bit totaling 34 bits per node. Each node will need to transmit up the tow cable five bits worth of time known as the guard band are allowed for this transmission. Sixteen bits are reserved for a downlink transmission to the nodes and a total of 56 bits are allocated for the header. Summing these bit allocations yield 852 bits that would need to be received sent by the system in 1 ms. Dividing this number of bits by this amount of time yields 852 kbps or 852 kHz.

In case 2 each of the 250 nodes has two channels at 12 bits per channel. Therefore each node will need enough time to transmit 24 bits plus one start bit and one stop bit totaling 26 bits per node. Each node will need to transmit up the tow cable five bits worth of time known as the guard band are allowed for this transmission. Sixteen bits are reserved for a downlink transmission to the nodes and a total of 56 bits are allocated for the header. Summing these bit allocations yield 7822 bits that would need to be received sent by the system in 4 ms. Dividing this number of bits by this amount of time yields 1.9555 Mbps or 1.9555 MHz.

The advantages of the present invention are power and data signals are now shared on a single wire with a second wire as return throughout the entire towed underwater acoustic sonar array system. Bidirectional data flow is accomplished by means of a time sharing communication protocol which incorporates a header that will enable the user to easily determine several factors regarding the incoming data such as the status of the telemetry system and the ability to recognize if any frames of data have been lost.

In light of the above it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

