---

title: Reverse bearing system, apparatus, and method
abstract: A bearing system includes a bearing comprising a first end and a second end opposite to the first end. The bearing further comprises a plurality of threads adjacent to the second end. The plurality of threads comprise a first slot perpendicular to the plurality of threads. The bearing system also includes a washer comprising a first surface adjacent to the second end of the bearing and a plane parallel to the first surface. The washer further comprises a plurality of side tabs extending from a second surface in a direction parallel to the plane and a first tab extending from the first surface in a direction perpendicular to the plane. The first tab mates with the first slot of the bearing. The bearing system further comprises a nut positioned between the first end of the bearing and the first surface of the washer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09458889&OS=09458889&RS=09458889
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 09458889
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150220
---
This invention was made with government support under contract number N00019 02 C 3002 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure generally relates to bearings and more particularly to a reverse bearing system apparatus and method.

Bearing systems may be used in confined spaces of an object. However those bearing systems often use configurations that waste valuable space and reduce the life of the systems.

Bearing systems are often used in confined spaces. For example a bearing system may be used in a small hole of an interior portion of an aircraft. As another example a bearing may be used in a small hole of a boat. In such small spaces bearing systems that position a washer between a bearing and a nut require too much space and reduce the number of threads that secure the nut to the bearing. As a result of the reduced threading the bearing may fail at high loads.

Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure include a bearing system that in one embodiment includes a bearing that has a first end and a second end opposite to the first end. The bearing further includes a plurality of threads adjacent to the second end. The plurality of threads include a first slot perpendicular to the plurality of threads. The bearing system also includes a washer that has a first surface adjacent to the second end of the bearing and a plane parallel to the first surface. The washer further includes a plurality of side tabs extending from a second surface in a direction parallel to the plane and a first tab extending from the first surface in a direction perpendicular to the plane. The first tab mates with the first slot of the bearing. The bearing system further includes a nut positioned between the first end of the bearing and the first surface of the washer.

The bearing system of the present disclosure may provide numerous advantages. For example positioning the nut between the bearing and the washer reduces the overall profile of the bearing system thereby allowing it to fit within a confined space. As another example the additional space may result in a greater number of threads that secure the bearing to the nut thereby increasing the thread strength of the bearing system. As a result of the increased thread strength the bearing system may withstand higher loads. Additionally the life of the bearing may be prolonged.

Additional details are discussed in . illustrates an example object and shows an example bearing system that may be used in object of . respectively show an example bearing an example washer and an example nut that may be used in bearing system of . shows an example method of assembling bearing system in object .

As noted above properly positioning the components of bearing system may provide substantial advantages over prior bearing systems. Bearing may be positioned in a lug of object in an embodiment. Nut may be positioned on washer in an embodiment. For example a portion of nut may be positioned on a portion of washer . In that example the portion of washer may be tab . Once nut is positioned on a portion of washer washer and nut may then be secured to bearing such that the nut is positioned between bearing and washer . For example washer and nut may be secured to bearing by screwing nut to bearing . Positioning nut between bearing and washer permits significant space savings and increases the number of threads on bearing that mate with nut . As a result thread strength is increased such that bearing system may withstand higher loads and the life of bearing may be increased.

First end may be an end of bearing in an embodiment. First end may have a diameter greater than a diameter of second end in an embodiment. First end may be positioned on a portion of a lug in an embodiment. For example first end may be positioned on an exterior of a lug. First end may be positioned opposite to second end in an embodiment.

Second end may be an end of bearing in an embodiment. Second end may have a diameter that is less than a diameter of first end in an embodiment. Second end may be positioned through or within a lug in an embodiment. Second end may be positioned opposite to first end in some embodiments. Additionally second end may be positioned adjacent to plurality of threads in some embodiments.

Plurality of threads may be any type of thread operable to secure bearing to nut in an embodiment. Threads may mate with threads of nut in an embodiment. Although shows bearing having six threads any number of threads may be used. For example seven threads may be used. Threads may be positioned adjacent to second end in certain embodiments. Plurality of threads may extend from second end to ridge in certain embodiments. Threads may substantially surround an outer perimeter of bearing in certain embodiments. Threads may have first slot through at least a portion of threads in an embodiment.

First slot may be any type of slot groove notch or channel that is operable to mate with tab of washer in an embodiment. As noted above mating first slot with tab may prevent washer from falling off of bearing system . First slot may be positioned perpendicularly to threads in an embodiment. First slot may be positioned below a surface of threads in an embodiment. Positioning first slot below threads may ensure that tab of washer does not interfere with threads mating with threads of nut . First slot may be machined into bearing in certain embodiments. Although only illustrated as having a single first slot bearing may have multiple slots spaced around the perimeter of threads in an embodiment. In some embodiments first slot may extend partially through threads . For example first slot may extend through three of seven threads. In other embodiments first slot may extend through each of threads . In that example first slot may extend until it meets second slot at ridge .

Second slot may be any type of slot groove notch or channel that is operable to mate with tab of washer in an embodiment. Mating second slot with tab may prevent washer from falling off of bearing system . Second slot may be positioned in a plane perpendicular to a plane of first slot in some embodiments. Second slot may be machined into ridge in certain embodiments. Although only illustrated as a single second slot bearing may have multiple slots in ridge .

Ridge may be a portion of bearing without threading. Ridge may have a diameter greater than the diameter of second end in certain embodiments. Ridge may be positioned adjacent to threads in an embodiment. In certain embodiments ridge may be positioned between threads and first end . Ridge may extend from threads to flange in an embodiment.

Flange may be any type of flange operable to facilitate securing bearing to a lug of object in certain embodiments. Flange may prevent bearing from falling through a lug of object in an embodiment by having a diameter larger than the diameter of the lug. Flange may be positioned at first end in an embodiment.

Aperture may be any hole lug or opening in an embodiment. Aperture may extend through bearing in an embodiment. For example aperture may extend from first end to second end . Aperture may be any size suitable to align a component that extends through aperture in some embodiments. For example aperture may be sized to align a landing gear component of object that extends through aperture . In that example aperture may align landing gear such that the landing gear does not become misaligned under extreme loading.

Ball may be any type of ball operable to align a component of object in an embodiment. For example when object is an aircraft with landing gear ball may facilitate the alignment of the landing gear in certain embodiments. Ball may be secured to bearing in any manner. For example ball may be secured to bearing using a friction fit. Ball may be positioned within aperture of bearing in some embodiments. Ball may be made of any material. For example ball may be a metal. Ball may be sized to mate with bearing . Ball may be coated with an anti friction coating in some embodiments. For example an interior surface of ball may be coated with grease a dry film lubrication polytetrafluorethylene or any other anti friction coating. In some embodiments an outer surface of ball may be coated with an anti friction coating. Ball may have an anti friction coating on an outer surface of ball in certain embodiments. Anti friction coating on an outer surface of ball may be in addition to or in lieu of anti friction coating on an inner surface of bearing in embodiments.

Front surface may be a surface of washer that is positioned adjacent to nut in certain embodiments. Front surface may be positioned opposite to rear surface in an embodiment. Front surface may be made of any type of material such as a metal or a plastic.

Plane may be a plane on front surface in an embodiment. Plane may be parallel to front surface in some embodiments.

Rear surface may be a surface of washer that is positioned opposite to front surface in an embodiment. Rear surface may be made of any type of material such as a metal or plastic. Rear surface may be interconnected with front surface by side surface in an embodiment.

Side surface may be a surface of washer that is positioned between front surface and rear surface in certain embodiments. Side surface may be made of any type of material such as a metal or a plastic. In some embodiments side surface may have side tabs A D extending from side surface .

Side tabs A D may be multiple protrusions extending from side surface in certain embodiments. Tabs A D may secure washer to nut in some embodiments. For example side tabs A D may be bent such that each of side tabs A D mate with one of grooves A D of nut . Side tabs A D may extend from side surface in a direction parallel to plane in some embodiments. Although illustrates side tabs A D as including four separate tabs side tabs A D may include any number of tabs. For example side tabs A D may include two tabs. Side tabs A D may be made of any material such as a metal or a plastic. Side tabs A D may be deformable such that each of side tabs A D may be bent into one of grooves A D of nut in an embodiment.

Tab may be a protrusion that extends from front surface in an embodiment. Tab may prevent washer from rotating out of bearing . Tab may have first portion that extends from front surface in a direction perpendicular to plane in some embodiments. Tab may have second portion that extends from first portion and that is parallel to plane in some embodiments. First portion of tab may be configured to mate with first slot of bearing in some embodiments. Second portion of tab may mate with second slot of bearing .

Aperture may be any type of hole or opening in some embodiments. Aperture may be sized such that it does not interfere with any component that goes through bearing . Aperture may be any shape. For example aperture may be circular.

Grooves A D may each be any type of groove notch or slot that is operable to mate with one of side tabs A D of washer in an embodiment. When grooves A D are each mated with one of side tabs A D grooves A D may secure washer to bearing in an embodiment. Grooves A D may be machined into nut in certain embodiments. Grooves A D may extend only partially through nut in certain embodiments. In other embodiments grooves A D may extend through nut .

Threads may be any type of thread operable to mate with threads of bearing in an embodiment. Threads may secure nut to bearing in an embodiment. Threads may be machined on an inner surface of nut in certain embodiments. Threads may include any number of threads. For example threads may include seven threads.

At step nut is positioned on a portion of tab of washer . For example nut may be positioned on first portion of tab . In that example nut may also be positioned against second portion . Once nut is positioned on a portion of tab method proceeds to step .

At step nut is secured to threads of bearing such that nut is positioned between first end of bearing and front surface of washer . For example nut may be secured to threads of bearing using threads of nut .

As an example embodiment of operation bearing may be positioned in a lug of an aircraft landing gear. Nut may be positioned on tab of washer . Tab of washer may be aligned with first slot and second slot of bearing . Nut may be secured to bearing by mating threads of bearing to threads of nut . Additionally each of side tabs A D of washer may be aligned with one of grooves A D of nut . Once side tabs A D are aligned each of side tabs A D may be bent into one of grooves A D. By bending each of side tabs A D into one of grooves A D washer is secured to bearing .

Bearing system may provide numerous advantages. For example positioning nut between bearing and washer may reduce the overall profile of bearing system thereby allowing it to fit within a confined space. As another example the additional space may result in a greater number of threads that secure bearing to nut thereby increasing the thread strength of bearing system . As a result of the increased thread strength bearing system can withstand high loads. Additionally the life of bearing may be prolonged.

Although the present disclosure has been described with several embodiments a myriad of changes variations alterations transformations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes variations alterations transformations and modifications.

