---

title: Gun alignment technique
abstract: A method is provided for aligning a gun barrel. The method includes disposing a signal transmitter at the barrel's muzzle, distributing sensors around the barrel to receive the muzzle's signal, calculating the muzzle's coordinate position based on the signal, aiming an electro-optical sensor at a target to determine a miss distance, and calibrating the gun barrel based on the electro-optical sensor based on the miss distance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09574851&OS=09574851&RS=09574851
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09574851
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151211
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to aligning a gun barrel in relation to a target. In particular the invention relates to methods for determining and minimizing the miss distance between a gun barrel s line of fire and a optional sensor s line of sight.

The United States Navy operates combat vessels some of which are equipped with shipboard artillery including guns having a five inch 5 bore for its barrel. The Potomac River Test Range PRTR at Dahlgren Va. is one of the Navy s premiere installations for developing and testing Gun Weapon Systems GWS . Prior to firing tests of the 5 gun for example a gun alignment must be performed to match the aimed position with the location at which the projectile ultimately arrives. This necessitates aligning an electro optic EO sensor and the gun pointing angle. If the EO gun combination is not aligned the gunner does not have an accurate gun pointing angle constituting a prohibitively unsafe condition.

A typical gun alignment requires eight man days four people working two days of eight hour shifts . A high accuracy Global Positioning System GPS receiver is disposed in the barrel of a test gun to establish the gun s position in relation to a world coordinate system for reference. Next a target boat with a similar GPS receiver is dispatched onto the PRTR to establish the target s position in relation to the reference coordinates. The gunner for the test gun aims the barrel at the target boat using an EO sensor to point the barrel at the target boat. Measurements of where the gun actually points to versus where the gun expects to be aiming at are conducted. After several iterations calculations of the errors in barrel EO misalignment are performed. The resulting errors are applied to a calibration to minimize the barrel EO misalignment.

Conventional gun alignment methods yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular a method is provided for aligning a gun barrel towards a target. The method includes disposing a signal transmitter at the barrel s muzzle distributing sensors around the barrel to receive the muzzle s signal calculating the muzzle s coordinate position based on the signal aiming an electro optical sensor at a target to determine a miss distance and calibrating the gun barrel based on the electro optical sensor based on the miss distance.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

In accordance with a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention the components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that devices of a less general purpose nature such as hardwired devices or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts disclosed herewith. General purpose machines include devices that execute instruction code. A hardwired device may constitute an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA or other related component.

Based on the GPS transceiver the barrel has Cartesian coordinates of the barrel location X Y Z . Similarly the EO sensor has Cartesian coordinates of each sensor location X Y Z and the first target has Cartesian coordinates of the target location X Y Z . A miss distance between the EO sensor s line of sight and the barrel s line of fire can be determined in relation to the first target . After aiming at all N targets the system level accuracy can be quantitatively computed and adjustments applied to account for for parallax between the barrel and the EO sensor .

Various exemplary embodiments provide a rapid method for aligning large caliber guns on the PRTR. This is necessary to reduce the cost and time to conduct many gun tests while maintaining high accuracy. This process can be described as in as a flowchart diagram view . The process begins as initiation .

As a first step the transmitter is disposed in the gun barrel and emits an established electromagnetic or acoustic signal at known intervals. As a second step the ground sensors capable of receiving the emitter signal from the transmitter are disposed at precisely known positions in the grid around the gun . As a third step the first target with a geometric pattern is disposed at a distance i.e. several hundred meters to thousands of meters away from the gun .

As a fourth step the gunner points the barrel at one of the known target positions by a line of fire . As a fifth step the emitter signal is received by the ground sensors . As a sixth step the difference in time between when the signal was emitted and received for every ground sensor is used to calculate the orientation of the barrel . This is known as trilateration the opposite of this method is used by GPS satellites.

As a seventh step the position of the barrel may be known very accurately by employing least squares or other optimization techniques. As an eighth step the barrel position may be converted to a gun pointing angle. As a ninth step the emitter sensor signals are sent to a common data acquisition system and then to a computer. The time delay is measured via the data acquisition system and the computer converts this time delay information into spatial information information via processing algorithms. As a tenth step the EO sensor aimed at the known first target sends its video feed to the same computer. This is used to compute the EO pointing vector from established EO sight and target positions. The EO sensor pointing angle is known very precisely by utilizing sub sub pixel accuracy computer vision schemes. Thus as an eleventh step the gun gun pointing angle from line of fire and pointing angles of the EO sensor from line of sight may be compared and the misalignment error computed. As a twelfth step the misalignment errors are then applied to a calibration for providing guidance correction to the aim direction of the barrel . The operation operation then terminates .

The system can be used anytime precise comparisons of pointing angles between mechanical and visual i.e. video systems are desired. The use of the exemplary system to only PRTR is not implied many ranges could use such a system. For installation on a sea going vessel the principles of operation would enable sea borne GWS to perform precise barrel EO misalignment calculations and calibrations. For example a sea borne GWS could utilize an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV with Differential GPS DGPS to provide a precise known target position for EO Barrel calibrations in a similar manner as described above. The exemplary system can save money and increase productivity while delivering a superior measurement.

Exemplary sub pixel accuracy schemes have not been used for precise EO pointing calculations but provide much more accurate measurements. The utility of a system of receivers for computing barrel pointing angle has not been previously accomplished but can be designed to give more accurate measurements. Large Navy guns 57 mm 5 diameter etc. are integrated into a weapon system which among other things has both the gun and an electro optical EO sensor . The EO sensor is provided so that a gunner operator can remotely determine the aim point of the gun barrel . Every time the gun is fired the gun and EO sensor have the potential for misalignment. Conventional methods for aligning the gun EO are time consuming about two days with four or five people working . The proposed concept enables a rapid simple method for aligning the gun EO to a high degree of accuracy.

A transmitter sound radio light or other electromagnetic spectrum is placed on the bore end of the barrel . Several at least five ground sensors capable of receiving the transmitter signal are placed in accurately surveyed locations forming a grid around the end of the muzzle . The distance from the barrel transmitter to each ground sensor changes with the orientation of the barrel i.e. aim point of barrel . The propagation speed of the transmitter emissions is constant. Thus the time required the transmitter signal to reach each sensor enables the precise calculation of the barrel pointing angle. Trilateration algorithms are well established in the art.

At accurately surveyed locations on the grid a large target is placed. These targets have a particular pattern displayed that enable sub pixel accuracy registration algorithms to be applied. From this the EO sensor knows its pointing angle. When the gun EO aim at a known target location the exact pointing angle of the EO sensor is known from the known target position. The gun pointing angle is known from the ground sensors . Thus the degree of misalignment can be accurately calculated very rapidly using mathematics. When N targets are imaged a statistical assessment of the gun EO misalignment errors can be computed.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

