---

title: Semantic zoom for related content
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for displaying a related content view within a search interface. That is, a search interface, such as a search application, may provide search results that are relevant to a query submitted through the search interface. For example, a main search engine results view comprising one or more search results of the query may be presented within the search interface. Responsive to a semantic zoom operation (e.g., a touch gesture), the search interface may be transitioned from the main search engine results view to a related content view comprising related content that corresponds to the query and/or a (e.g., supplemental) search result for the query. In this way, the user may explore supplemental content, such as query suggestions, images, entity descriptions/profiles, videos, and/or other content, that may be related to a query submitted by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396267&OS=09396267&RS=09396267
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09396267
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150401
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 632 599 filed on Oct. 1 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 002 174 entitled SEMANTIC ZOOM FOR RELATED CONTENT at least some of which may be incorporated herein.

Many users may discover and interact with content through a search interface such as a search website or a search application. In one example a user may utilize a web browser to search for websites images videos and or other content by submitting a search query into a search engine. The search engine may provide a search results page comprising one or more search results that are relevant to the search query. Displaying the search results page on a mobile device such as a tablet or a mobile phone may result in a diminished user experience because merely a few search results may be displayed and supplemental content may be left out of the search results page.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for displaying a related content view are provided herein. That is a search interface such as a search application or a search website may provide search results based upon a query submitted through the search interface. In particular responsive to receiving a query through the search interface a set of search results corresponding to the query may be obtained. For example a set of web pages that are relevant to a query Ohio sports may be obtained as the set of search results. At least a portion of the set of search results may be displayed within a main search engine results view of the search interface. The portion of the set of search results may comprise all or less than all of the search results within the set of search results. In one example because the set of search results may comprise a relatively large number of search results that may not fit within a single view of the search interface the portion of search results may comprise less than all of the search results within the set of search results.

A set of related content corresponding to the query and or a search result within the set of search results may be obtained. The set of related content may comprise a variety of content such as suggested queries e.g. a narrowing query Ohio soccer sports a broadening query U.S. sports a related query running trails in Ohio etc. images e.g. a logo of an Ohio sports team videos e.g. a news video of a new stadium being built a link to an application e.g. a shortcut to a sports news reading application a map or map directions e.g. a map of running trails or stadiums in Ohio and or a plethora of other types of content. Related content from the set of related content may be populated within a related content view and the related content view may be displayed within the search interface based upon a semantic zoom command e.g. user input mapped to a command that transitions the search interface from the main search engine results view to a related content view . It may be appreciated that a variety of techniques may be employed to make the set of related content accessible to the search interface for population of the related content view. In one example at least some of the set of related content may be obtained before e.g. pre fetched an occurrence of the semantic zoom command that would trigger display of at least some of the set of related content e.g. contemporaneously with obtaining the set of search results . If the set of related content is pre fetched then the set of related content may be locally cached or stored as a hidden object within the main search engine results view. In another example at least some of the set of related content may be obtained e.g. in real time and or after the set of search results are obtained after the occurrence of the semantic zoom command.

The search interface may be configured to receive the semantic zoom command associated with the main search engine results view. The semantic zoom command may correspond to a variety of input such as a mouse input a keyboard input a touch event a swipe gesture a spoken command a hand gesture and or other forms of input. Responsive to receiving the semantic zoom command associated with the main search engine results view the search interface may be transitioned from the main search engine results view to the related content view comprising a first portion of the set of related content. The first portion of the set of related content may comprise all or less than all of the related content within the set of related content. In this way the user may interact with related content provided through the related content view. In one example the user may pan from the first portion to a second portion of the set of related content. In another example the user may filter or sort the set of related content e.g. sort based upon the type of content filter based upon keywords etc. . In another example responsive to a user selection of related content functionality associated with the related content may be invoked e.g. a video may be played an application may be executed a web page may be displayed a new query may be executed map directions may be displayed coupons may be displayed etc. .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Many users may utilize a search interface to discover content relevant to a search task such as researching a car purchase planning a vacation or locating interesting content associated with a favorite sports team for example. While performing the search task the user may submit a query through the search interface to obtain query results. Based upon the query results returned by the search interface the user may refine the query to create a new query e.g. because the user may not have obtained sufficient information to accomplish the search task based upon the search results of the query . In this way the user may iteratively submit queries evaluate query results and submit refined queries in order to accomplish the search task. In addition to providing query results providing the user with related content e.g. images links to applications videos query suggestions and or other content related to a query and or a query result may aid the user in accomplishing the search task. Unfortunately many users may interact with the search interface through a device comprising relatively limited screen space such as a touch device a mobile device a tablet device etc. Displaying query results and related content within a search results page may clutter the search results page. Accordingly as provided herein it may be advantageous to provide the user with related content through the search interface in a user friendly format that presents the related content in an intuitive and or easy to read format.

One embodiment of displaying a related content view is illustrated by exemplary method in . At the method starts. A query e.g. concerts in Las Vegas may be received through a search interface such as a search application. At a set of search results corresponding to the query may be received. For example links to websites articles images videos and or other content relevant to the query may be retrieved by a search engine as the set of search results. At at least a portion of the set of search results may be displayed within a main search engine results view of the search interface.

At a set of related content corresponding to the query and or a search result within the set of search results may be obtained. In one example one or more query suggestions such as broadening queries narrowing queries related queries and or side ways queries may be obtained as the set of related content. In another example one or more images videos map directions coupons text application shortcuts website links a description of an entity e.g. a location a person a business an object an idea etc. and or a variety of other content may be obtained as the set of related content. It may be appreciated that a variety of techniques may be employed to make the set of related content accessible to the search interface for population of a related content view. In one example the set of related content may be obtained before an occurrence of a semantic zoom command that would trigger display of related content e.g. user input associated with the main search engine results view that is mapped to a command that transitions the search interface from the main search engine results view to the related content view such that the set of related content may be locally cached stored as a hidden object within the main search engine results view and or otherwise not be visible until subsequently called in some manner. In another example the set of related content may be obtained after the occurrence of the semantic zoom command. In another example the set of related content may be obtained asynchronously after the main search engine results view has been populated with search results but before the occurrence of a semantic zoom command.

At responsive to receiving a semantic zoom command e.g. a pinch gesture on a touch screen a mouse click a keyboard input a swipe gesture a touch event etc. associated with the main search engine results view the search interface may be transitioned from the main search engine results view to a related content view comprising a first portion of the set of related content. It is to be appreciated that unless indicated otherwise first second third etc. and or the like are merely used herein as identifiers rather than to imply an ordering temporal aspect etc. The first portion of the set of related content may thus comprise a middle portion intermediary portion end portion etc. of the related content within the set of related content e.g. is not limited to a beginning portion . In one example a second set of related content corresponding to the query and or a search result within the set of search results may be obtained and a first portion of the second set of related content may be displayed within the related content view where the portions represent different types of related content or unique content. For example the set of related content may comprise a first type of related content such as one or more narrowing search queries while the second set of related content may comprise a different type of related content such as one or more broadening queries side ways queries and or related queries. In this way various types of related content may be organized grouped and or displayed within the related content view. In one example of displaying the first portion of the set of related content a first related content may comprise a narrowing query comprising one or more terms of the query e.g. the initial query submitted by the user concerts in Las Vegas and or one or more suggested query terms e.g. at the New Hotel where the one or more suggested query terms are formatted differently than the one or more terms of the query. For example the first related content may comprise concerts in Las Vegas in a non bold format and at the New Hotel may be in a bold format and or an enlarged font. In one example of implementing the related content view the related content view may be implemented as a metaphor associated with the search interface. That is the search interface may be implemented as an interface metaphor comprising a set of user interface visual metaphors such as the main search engine results view and or the related content view.

One or more commands such as a one touch command may be associated with the related content view. In one example of a command responsive to receiving a pan command the first portion of the set of related content may be replaced with a second portion of the set of related content within the related content view. In this way a user may pan e.g. scroll through various portions of related content to explore the set of related content. In another example of a command responsive to receiving a user selection of related content comprising a related query e.g. a query suggestion a second query may be performed based upon the related query to obtain a set of related search results. The related content view and or the main search engine results view may be updated with at least a portion of the set of related search results. In another example of a command responsive to receiving a back command the search interface may be transitioned from the related content view back to the main search engine results view. In another example of a command the first portion of the set of related content may be filtered based upon a filter criterion associated with a filter command or may be sorted based upon a sort criterion associated with a sort command e.g. the filter criterion and or the sort criterion may correspond to a variety of criteria such as filter sort by content type filter sort by keywords filter sort by data etc. . It may be appreciated that other commands may be implemented such as a play video command for related video content a view map command for related map content a view image command for related image content an execute application command for a related application an execute related query command for a related query a navigate to source of content command for related content etc. At the method ends.

The content component may be configured to obtain a set of related content corresponding to the query concerts in Las Vegas and or one or more search results associated with the main search engine results view e.g. a search result corresponding to a Vegas music festival website . The set of related content may comprise various types of content such as images query suggestions videos maps website links application shortcuts and or other content obtained from a various content sources . The content component may be configured to transition the search interface from the main search engine results view to the related content view . The content component may populate the related content view with a first portion of the set of related content . For example the content component may populate the related content view with a first related content e.g. a narrowing query that adds the term pop to the query concerts in Las Vegas a second related content e.g. a narrowing query that adds the terms during music festival to the query concerts in Las Vegas a third related content e.g. a shortcut link to a ticket purchasing application a fourth related content e.g. a music video preview a fifth related content e.g. a musical image a sixth related content e.g. a broadening or side ways query things to do in Nevada and or additional related content. In this way the user may discover new content through the related content view . It may be appreciate that at least some of the content of the main search engine results view e.g. at least some of the portion of a set of search results comprised within the main search engine results view may be displayed within the related content view .

The content component may be configured to receive the pan command associated with the related content view . For example a user may perform a touch gesture such as a swipe on a screen of a touch device to initiate the pan command . The content component may be configured to remove the first portion of the set of related content from the related content view and display a second portion of the set of related content within the related content view e.g. updated related content view based upon the pan command . For example the content component may populate the related content view e.g. updated related content view with a seventh related content e.g. a link to a sightseeing website with an image of a sun an eighth related content e.g. a suggested query plan a trip to the west a ninth related content e.g. a shortcut link to a car rental application and or other related content. In this way the user may pan through related content within the related content view.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

