---

title: Method and apparatus for reducing noise transmission through a window
abstract: Attenuators are introduced that offer quiet, enhanced sound quality for interior of enclosures than previous devices. An acoustical rating system for the levels of sound propagation through glass windows/windshields is introduced for the building and construction industry. Just as windows and insulation have an R-value to define the temperature energy efficiency of the interior of a room, an A-Rating™ system would define the acoustical energy efficiency of an enclosure space. In the summer, the higher the R-value, the less cool air that escapes a room through a window (and the less heat that penetrates into the interior), thus keeping the room cooler with less energy. Similarly, the higher the A-Rating™ of a window, the less noise that propagates through, maintaining lower levels of sound in the interior of an enclosure, creating a more harmonious, acoustically energy efficient room for enhanced health, preventing sleep interference, speech interference, and maintaining adequate levels of safety according to EPA and OSHA standards. The A-Rating™ system can help set standards for bearable and unbearable windows for a particular house, building, shopping store, restaurant, vehicle-cabin, fuselage cabin, locomotive/train/subway cabin, hotel, apartment, airport, library, museum, or any other enclosure, for a particular area or jurisdiction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645120&OS=09645120&RS=09645120
owner: 
number: 09645120
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150904
---
This patent application claims benefit of prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 045 594 filed Sep. 4 2014 by Grant Nash for BEARABLEGLASS WINDOW WINDSHIELD BEARABLES FOR REDUCING NOISE LEVELS IN INTERIOR OF BUILDINGS HOUSES SHOPPING STORES RESTAURANTS VEHICLE CABINS FUSELAGE CABINS LOCOMOTIVE TRAIN SUBWAY CABINS HOTELS APARTMENTS AIRPORTS LIBRARIES MUSEUMS AND ANY OTHER TYPE OF ENCLOSURE WITH AN A RATING AND S RATING FOR BUILDING CONSTRUCTION CODES which patent application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to methods and apparatus for the reduction of noise transmission through glass including but not limited to windows and windshields and into interior spaces including but not limited to houses vehicle cabins fuselages locomotive cabins and train coaches boat cabins buildings rooms spaces apartments hotels airports and other interior spaces having windows . For the purposes of the present invention the term window is intended to mean where the context so admits windows windshields glass containing doors and ceilings and skylights transparent or translucent panels and the like. And for the purposes of the present invention the term glass is intended to mean where the context so admits glass plexiglass transparent or translucent plastics and the like.

The present invention also relates to the creation and use of rating systems for evaluating the propagation of sound through glass e.g. an A Rating and an S Rating including but not limited to windows and windshields.

The A Rating is for low frequency sound preferably from 20 to 200 Hz just inside the glass window windshield. The S Rating is for broadband frequency sound preferably throughout the entire hearing range of 20 to 20 000 Hz .

Typically low frequency sound dominates noise propagation into interior spaces and is more difficult and costly to reduce. This invention focuses primarily on reducing low frequency noise levels and thus increasing the A Rating of the glass.

Noise transmission into the interior of buildings houses vehicle cabins fuselages and other interior spaces has existed throughout human history. Reducing noise transmission for better sound quality helps enhance health prevent sleep interference and prevent speech interference. Reducing noise transmission into enclosures can also be important for protecting people from hearing loss and complying with standards prescribed by regulators e.g. the Environmental Protection Agency EPA and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA .

Previous noise reduction techniques for glass including but not limited to windows and windshields have predominantly consisted of reducing the noise by a limited number of decibels over the entire hearing range 20 20 000 Hz . However this approach typically affords little reduction in the overall noise levels let alone low frequency noise from 20 to 200 Hz.

As seen in previous noise reduction techniques have also included thickening of the glass window typically contained within a windowsill to stiffen the window and reduce high frequency noise transmission. This can be costly driving up the price to manufacture the glass.

Looking next at other techniques have included the introduction of air gaps within the window during the manufacturing of the glass thereby providing double pane windows with a gap between the two panes whereby to mitigate high frequency vibration and thus reduce high frequency structure borne noise. Some have even put a transparent material into the air gap to help reduce noise transmission.

Moreover the building and construction industry utilizes R values to rate the temperature energy efficiency of a window in relation to an interior space. The higher the R value of the window the higher the energy efficiency of the window. In the summer a window with a high R value allows less warm air to penetrate into the interior of the structure and thus helps to sustain a cool interior temperature for better energy efficiency. Similarly in the winter a high R value allows less warm air to escape from a house or building thereby helping to sustain a warm temperature for better energy efficiency.

Some glass e.g. windows and windshields can be modally sparse and some can be modally dense. Modally dense glass elements can typically be defined as elements that vibrate with modes or resonant frequencies separated by less than 40 Hz in a low frequency bandwidth between 20 and 200 Hz. In modally sparse glass elements only one resonant frequency may be present or two or only a few resonant frequencies may be present. The vibration at these resonant peaks is reduced and thus the majority of the energy is attenuated. Mass stiffness and damping is applied to these few peaks and noise transmission mitigated. For modally dense glass elements many different mass spring or damping systems can be utilized to reduce overall energy across a frequency spectrum e.g. 20 to 200 Hz for low frequency systems and 20 to 20 000 Hz for systems of the full human hearing range .

Many types of noise can awaken people at night distract from daily life and affect health. For houses near busy streets low frequency engine noise from cars motorcycles construction vehicles etc. can penetrate into the interior of enclosures and awaken residents especially when engines are revved late at night. For buildings near airports noise from aircraft typically in the form of blade passage frequency BPF noise can transmit into the interior of the building. Construction next to a restaurant can make it difficult to maintain a conversation inside. Similarly when a subway or train comes to a screeching halt it can be nearly impossible to maintain a conversation in the interior of the car because of the brake noise. Moreover when one is inside a vehicle and an adjacent automobile is blaring music with high bass it can distract from the acoustics of the environment.

The present invention helps to reduce noise transmission through glass e.g. windows and windshields utilizing mass stiffness and damping characteristics sometimes hereinafter referred to as a Degree of Freedom system or DOF system in order to obtain desired sound levels in the interior of houses buildings vehicle cabins fuselages locomotives train coaches subways conference rooms libraries hotels laboratories and other similar interiors. As mentioned above previous methods have predominantly concentrated on utilizing damping alone or stiffness alone to improve sound quality. What is unique about this invention is that glass e.g. windows and windshields is attenuated by a novel attenuator taking into account all three of mass stiffness and damping. If a particular window has sharp resonant peaks with little damping the novel attenuator can have little damping and concentrate mainly on the mass and stiffness to cancel the energy at particular resonances.

With the present invention the novel attenuator effectively creates an anti resonance at an appropriate frequency attenuation bandwidth to cancel an undesirable resonant peak sound transmission.

In other words the novel attenuator of the present invention utilizes the elastic element of the attenuator and the mass element of the attenuator to provide natural mode s of vibration in essence anti resonance that counteracts the undesirable resonant peak s in the window. With a 1 DOF attenuator the attenuator creates one natural mode i.e. one frequency attenuation bandwidth that counteracts one undesirable resonant peak in the window with a 2 DOF attenuator the attenuator creates two natural modes i.e. two frequency attenuation bandwidths that counteract two resonant peaks in the window etc.

To those familiar with the art the amount of damping for a peak can be described with a Q factor. The higher the Q factor the less the damping in the peak i.e. width of the peak is narrower . Similarly the lower the Q factor the higher the damping in the peak i.e. width of the peak is wider . However the uniqueness of this invention sometimes referred to herein as a novel attenuator is that the majority of the energy cancellation concentrates on the resonant peaks which is where the majority of the unhealthy and or undesirable noise is concentrated. Previous systems which concentrate on damping reduce the majority of energy at frequencies outside the resonant peaks. Thus these previous systems reduce sound which is not bothersome to the human health condition rather than attenuating noise that can be detrimental to one s health.

A damping method or air gap method can reduce some energy at a resonant peak but it is very little compared to a system which concentrates on reducing energy at particular resonant peak s i.e. the approach used in the present invention . In a system that concentrates on reducing energy at a particular resonant peak i.e. the approach used in the present invention there is typically an order of magnitude or more in sound reduction which is a massive amount of energy reduction compared to a conventional method .

For instance the plot in shows a Power Spectrum Density PSD plot of a windshield with and without a novel attenuator formed in accordance with the present invention. In the frequency response of each system shown i.e. a window with and without a novel attenuator formed in accordance with the present invention is utilizing a transfer function of the output over the input so the decibel output is a ratio related to the power. So although the acoustic attenuation of the resonant peak in the 80 to 90 Hz region is about 10 dB 12 dB at 83 Hz 10 dB at 87 Hz it should be noted that this means that the glass window attenuated with the novel attenuator of the present invention transmits 8 times less power than the unattenuated glass. This power reduction is impractical to achieve with conventional damping window attenuation.

In another aspect of the present invention there is provided an A Rating system wherein attenuated and unattenuated windows can be defined and or rated for the building and construction industry. Houses lodging establishments buildings etc. could be subjected to construction and or other codes which would recommend or require that the structures include windows with an appropriate A Rating so as to provide for appropriate and or desirable interior sound levels.

The majority of unwanted noise occurs in the low frequency region e.g. 20 to 200 Hz . This noise can be more difficult and costly to attenuate so finding a cost effective means to attenuate noise in this frequency region would be beneficial. The present invention concentrates on energy levels in this frequency range however the present invention also contemplates providing noise attenuation for the entire human hearing range of 20 to 20 000 Hz for an interior space.

Accordingly an alternative S Rating system is contemplated for defining and rating noise attenuation for a full human hearing frequency spectrum. Table 1 see below shows an A Rating scale as well as an S Rating scale. Depending on the applicable local regional state or federal regulation s attenuated and unattenuated levels ratings can be established for a particular structure in a particular area for use by the construction industry.

By way of example in an area where noise levels are particularly high such as near an airport airport windows or building windows nearby might need to be equipped with a window of at least an A 8 rating i.e. a window having the A 8 characteristics shown in Table 1 . In a quieter community with little noise a window with an A 3 rating i.e. a window having the A 3 characteristics shown in Table 1 might only be needed. For a house on a busy street with high volumes of vehicle traffic a window with an A 6 rating i.e. a window having the A 6 characteristics shown in Table 1 might be necessary.

In addition although it would be rare there might be a need to enhance and or amplify sound into a particular enclosure. The regulatory agencies could set the attenuated unattenuated limits required for a particular area in accordance with the A Rating and S Rating scales of the present invention.

Decibel reduction is based on a test in which a microphone or multiple microphones are placed approximately 6 inches from a window. When three microphones are utilized one should be placed towards the top of the window one towards the middle of the window and one towards the bottom of the window. An average sound pressure level SPL is obtained based on the data obtained by the three microphones.

Various acoustical sources can be applied during testing. Universally white noise at 90 dB could be directed at the window and microphone levels obtained on the other side of the window while installed with baffle like boundary conditions for the setup to ensure the acoustical energy is being measured for energy transmitted through the window.

The testing could be completed and the rating assigned before shipping and installing the window with attenuator in a house building structure etc. If a particular area has a certain type of noise e.g. noise from particular sources that generate energy at particular frequencies that particular type of noise could be applied to the window with attenuator during testing. By way of example but not limitation for windows to be installed in proximity to a particular busy street that has engine noise with typical resonant peaks at 100 Hz the novel attenuator could be constructed so as to maximize energy reduction at that particular frequency.

In the foregoing scenario the majority of the attenuation in a 20 to 200 Hz region would be concentrated around 60 Hz. The application of the A Rating scale would still require taking the average reduction over the frequency range. By way of example but not limitation if the resonant peak was reduced 9 dB but the overall average reduction for the frequency range was 6 dB then the window with attenuator would have an A 5 rating. In another example if the resonant peak was reduced 9 dB and the overall average reduction for the frequency range was 9 dB then the window with attenuator would have an A 6 rating. Another example could be if a building is by an airport and is subjected to a typical BPF of around 85 Hz then the novel attenuator would be constructed so as to maximize energy reduction at that particular frequency.

In the case of glass e.g. window and windshield manufacturing one or more novel attenuators may be imbedded in the window or affixed to the glass in one form of the invention with a covering over the top of the attenuator to prevent the attenuator from being tampered with . In the case where the attenuator s is are affixed to a window the attenuator s can be adhered fixed fastened etc. as necessary or appropriate.

The attenuator s can be in various shapes sizes designs etc. For aesthetic purposes the attenuator s could be in the shape of various animals objects landmarks structures people scenes etc. to provide a decorative aspect to the window. Furthermore the attenuators could be enhanced with various colors artwork painting etc. to enhance their aesthetic appeal.

In one embodiment of the present invention and looking now at there is provided a 2 Degree of Freedom 2 DOF novel attenuator used in connection with an exemplary aircraft windshield note that shows a novel 1 DOF attenuator . In this embodiment the 2 Degree of Freedom 2 DOF novel attenuator is configured to attenuate the BPF noise penetrating into the fuselage at approximately 87 Hz that can coincide with a 80 90 Hz mode in the windshield. The windshield of this embodiment is also configured to attenuate sound propagating into the interior of the fuselage via another mode in the windshield 200 Hz that coincides closest to the second harmonic of the BPF 174 Hz . A schematic model of the 2 DOF novel attenuator is shown in and an example of a 2 DOF novel attenuator is shown in .

In practice the novel attenuators or neutralizers of the 2 DOF device are preferably configured to have a shape compatible with the windshield of a particular vehicle or apparatus e.g. windshields utilized with armored trucks Piper 140 airplanes and Piper Cherokee Six 260 airplanes. In this particular exemplary embodiment the novel attenuator eliminates the energy transmitting into the interior of the fuselage at the BPF 87 Hz and 200 Hz peaks.

In another embodiment of the present invention and looking now at a 3 DOF novel attenuator can be utilized to eliminate energy at three resonant peaks where noise transmits through the window into the interior of a house. shows a plot of the energy propagating through the window showing the acoustical energy is eliminated at the particular frequency peaks targeted. In further embodiments of a 3 DOF novel attenuator and looking now at various additional types of novel 3 DOF attenuators shown. In these embodiments targeted resonant peaks are attenuated by attenuators comprising mass elastic and stiffness elements.

In addition multi DOF attenuators having more than 3 DOFs can be designed. By way of example but not limitation in the embodiment shown in four or more peaks are targeted to reduce noise transmitting through the window into the interior of an enclosure for a particular frequency range as shown in . It should be appreciated that novel attenuators having 5 DOF 6 DOF 7 DOF etc. can be formed in accordance with the present invention.

The aforementioned embodiments may be formed by boring out chambers in the elastic layer of the novel attenuators i.e. show 3 DOF attenuators and show 4 DOF attenuators . The elastic layer can be filled with rubber gel foam or other substances exhibiting the property of flowability. Varying the composition of the elastic layer i.e. by providing different inserts into the elastic layer among other things provides for the ability to attenuate multiple peaks instead of just one peak.

In another embodiment of the multiple DOF attenuator the ability of an attenuator to shift frequencies in order to tune to a particular resonant peak is possible by varying the stiffness element of the attenuator. In an embodiment with shifting stiffness characteristics of the invention bores or chambers may be formed in the elastic layer of the attenuator and sealed. These bores or chambers can be filled with air or another gaseous mixture. The attenuator may also be provided with knobs or other valves to control closures configured to open and close so as to allow the fluid to flow from one chamber to another or from a reservoir chamber to another chamber. By varying the amount of fluid in the chambers the attenuator may be tuned to adjust and match the resonant frequency range of a window or windshield thereby creating an anti resonance to help maximize attenuation at particular frequency ranges. This can allow customization and targeting of various kinds of noise resonating from a window or windshield and propagating into the interior of a particular house building vehicle etc.

In still another embodiment of the present invention the chambers can be filled with a fluid containing iron particles and a magnetic field applied to the chamber. See . By increasing the strength of the magnetic field applied to the chamber the fluid becomes significantly less flowable thereby increasing the stiffness of the individual filled chamber which acts as something of a column . In this way the stiffness of the filled chamber column can be varied which results in the tunability of the attenuator to neutralize the resonant peak for the window and thus reducing noise propagating into the interior of the house or building. The novel attenuator would have settings to increase or decrease the current and thus the stiffness of the chamber of the novel attenuator.

In one preferred form of the invention there is provided an attenuator for reducing sound transmission through a structure said attenuator comprising 

wherein said at least one elastic body is configured to be secured to said structure intermediate said structure and said at least one mass 

and further wherein said damping attribute of said at least one elastic body said stiffness attribute of said at least one elastic body and said at least one mass are selected so as to provide at least one frequency attenuation bandwidth focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission through a structure.

In another preferred form of the invention there is provided a system for reducing sound transmission through a structure said system comprising 

In another preferred form of the invention there is provided a method for reducing sound transmission through a structure said method comprising 

In another preferred form of the invention there is provided an acoustic rating system for windows based on noise amplitude and frequency.

In another preferred form of the invention there is provided a method for characterizing a window the method comprising 

characterizing the window in the context of an acoustic rating system based on noise amplitude and frequency.

The novel attenuator of the present invention reduces noise transmission into the interior of buildings houses restaurants vehicle cabins fuselages and other enclosures which is an issue that has been around throughout human history. The lower sound levels in interior spaces helps to enhance health prevent sleep interference prevent speech interference and helps to maintain safe sound levels that may be prescribed by EPA and OSHA standards. These are just a few of the key incentives for reducing noise pollution in interior spaces.

The novel attenuator of the present invention attenuates resonant peaks that are vibrating the glass window windshield and propagating structure borne noise into an interior of an enclosure.

An example of a novel attenuator that reduces noise transmission into the interior of houses buildings shopping stores restaurants hotels apartments libraries museums and any other interior enclosure can be seen in . Glass has an outer windowsill and a novel attenuator formed in accordance with the present invention. shows a typical window that has trim in the middle with the attenuators attached to trim . Multiple attenuators can be fastened fixed adhered embedded into the surface etc. of the window as shown in . Additional attenuator embodiments can include an attenuator mass that is decorative and enhances the aesthetics of a room as shown in .

An example of a novel attenuator system that reduces noise transmission into the interior of an airplane fuselage can be seen in . Noise from the 87 Hz BPF of the airplane propagates into the interior of the fuselage cabin. Previous research has found that the majority of noise for a single propeller aircraft transmits through the windshield. The BPF happens to coincide with a 80 90 Hz windshield mode. Trim around the edge of the windshield utilizes multiple attenuators to cancel the vibration in the plexiglass windshield in the 80 90 Hz region.

The windshield mode around 200 Hz also transmits sound energy into the cabin of the fuselage although this sound energy is somewhat less than the fundamental BPF sound energy. This closest mode in the windshield to the second harmonic of the BPF was targeted as a second peak for noise attenuation 200 Hz .

In accordance with the present invention 2 DOF attenuators have been designed to reduce noise transmission into the interior of the fuselage cabin at the two targeted frequencies. Attenuators are adhered to trim based on the design of windshields for armored trucks and other airplanes including the Piper as shown in . Rearview mirror attached to the windshield of the aircraft ends up being on an anti node for 80 90 Hz resonance and is left in place.

Attenuators are mass spring damping systems that can be tuned to a frequency of attenuation in order to target bothersome resonant peaks utilizing Equation 1 which is derived from Newton s Second Law of Motion 

The elastic layer contains damping and stiffness characteristics and may be formed of foam gel sand rubber polymer or any other substance of elastic form. Mass layer may be formed of metal including steel aluminum or any other metal composite rock stone concrete brick plastic or any other material of a fixed solid state. Mass es may be adhered fastened bolted or secured in any similar manner to an elastic layer. Similarly an elastic layer may be adhered fastened bolted or secured in any similar manner to a surface being attenuated. A model of a 2 DOF attenuator attached to a windshield can be seen in . is a photograph of the concept modeled in .

In designing an attenuator for the windshield mode at 80 90 Hz ideally it would be helpful to design the mass of the attenuator to be around 4 of the total mass of the plexiglass. A mass ratio is calculated as shown in Equation 2 

In another embodiment and looking now at an attenuator reduces noise transmission into the interior of a house building shopping store restaurant library museum apartment or any other similar enclosure. A 3 DOF in series attenuator is adhered to a glass structure as shown in . Similarly a 3 DOF in parallel attenuator is adhered to a glass structure as shown in .

A model of the 3 DOF in series attenuator shown in is shown in element and a model of the 3 DOF in parallel attenuator is shown in element . The mass of the glass being attenuated is denoted by m. The stiffness damping and mass elements are shown in the model of the attenuator for each DOF.

Noise transmission through the glass at three distinct resonant peaks is being attenuated by the attenuators shown in i.e. the attenuators are 3 DOF attenuators . is a plot showing sound levels inside an enclosure with and without an attenuator being utilized regions and respectively . The frequency response of the attenuator essentially eliminates the energy at the three resonant peaks.

In a further attenuator embodiment a multi DOF attenuator is attached to glass as shown in . The masses of the multi DOF attenuator can be various sizes shapes colors scenes forms of artwork animals places and any other design to enhance the d cor of a room store shop restaurant etc. aesthetically. As many DOF systems can be utilized as necessary to attenuate unwanted noise propagating through the glass.

In another preferred embodiment and looking now at the attenuator comprises a multi DOF attenuator for simplicity a 3 DOF system is shown in where holes are bored out of the elastic layer which could be made out of rubber foam gel or another substance of elastic form . The holes are then filled with a material that is different than the encompassing elastic layer . By way of example but not limitation the elastic layer may be formed of foam and could be bored out and packed with sand gel and or rubber could be placed in the different chambers. Various masses can then be applied on top of the filled chambers columns . Masses are supported primarily or entirely by the filled chambers although they may also receive some structural support from elastic layer .

The different material in each chamber can target a separate attenuation peak in order to cancel unwanted peaks of noise propagating through the glass. Moreover by adjusting the surface contact area between the mass and the chamber filled material the peak of attenuation can be increased or decreased.

For instance keeping mass constant if the contact area of mass with the filled chamber is decreased then the attenuation peak decreases. Similarly if the contact area of mass with the filled chamber increases then the attenuation peak increases as related in Equation 3 

In a another preferred embodiment as shown in the attenuator utilizes chambers in an elastic layer that is filled with bags balloons of air and or any other type of gaseous mixture . Plastic tubing from the gas filled balloon sacks connect to rubber bulbs placed on the side of the attenuator. By pumping the bulbs air can be pumped to the balloon in the chamber thereby increasing the pressure of the filled chamber column on which mass is sitting. The change in pressure changes the stiffness of the filled chamber column which can shift the attenuation peak. For an increase in pressure the stiffness increases and the frequency of the attenuation peak increases.

In order to decrease the pressure in the balloon sack and thereby decrease the frequency of the attenuation peak valves knobs are placed on the side of the attenuator as shown in . When valves knobs are actuated air is allowed out of the bags.

This enables a user to change the attenuation attributes of the attenuator in order to address a particular environment. By way of example but not limitation if a house is on a busy street and is constantly being barraged by vehicle engine noise of around 100 Hz then the user can adjust one of the attenuators to address the peaks of attenuation to compensate. In another example if an office building is near an airport and needs to tune an attenuation peak to cancel out a particular airplane BPF at 85 Hz then the attenuator can be adjusted accordingly.

In still another preferred embodiment and looking now at an attenuator utilizes chambers in the elastic layer and the balloons sacks plastic lining is filled with a high viscosity magnetorheological MR fluid . Coils are wrapped around the filled chambers columns and wires are connected from the coils to knobs on the side of the attenuator.

A low voltage battery or voltage supply is used to send a small amount of current to a particular coil when a knob is turned. Current flowing through a coil will create a magnetic field which will stiffen the MR fluid in the filled chamber column . This in turn will increase the frequency of an attenuation peak as needed to counteract a particular peak of noise propagating through the glass into the interior of an enclosed area.

In yet another preferred embodiment of the invention and looking now at there is shown an enhanced form of the invention previously shown in wherein there is provided a fully active system with many DOFs. In this embodiment of the invention a microphone is utilized as a control feedback sensor that communicates with a CPU . Microphone is configured to detect the various frequencies of sound being transmitted through the window and transmits this information to CPU . CPU is configured to then automatically send the appropriate amount of current to one or more of the coils so as to create a magnetic field of appropriate strength so as to change the stiffness of a particular DOF system. As described above the change in stiffness adjusts an attenuation peak in order to cancel a detrimental resonant peak contributing noise in the interior of an enclosure.

As an additional feature and looking still at a digital display with touchscreen controls can be included as an optional feature so as to allow a user to override the active control feedback loop and manually tune one or more of the DOF systems of the attenuator for a particular attenuation peak.

For embodiments of the invention wherein the attenuator has multiple DOF systems such as the embodiment shown in many peaks of noise can be attenuated. By way of example but not limitation shows representative plots in which the attenuator is attenuating many peaks of noise. Peaks can be attenuated for low frequency noise 20 to 200 Hz as shown in . Many peaks across the entire human hearing range can also be targeted as shown in to reduce broadband noise propagating through the glass into the interior of an enclosure. An acoustical rating system for windows could then be established utilizing Table 1 and implemented for particular houses or buildings.

In one aspect of the invention there is provided a novel attenuator that utilizes an acoustical rating system for the levels of sound propagation through a structure. An acoustical rating system is introduced as described in Table 1 for the building and construction industry. Just as windows and insulation have an R value to define the temperature energy efficiency of the interior of a room the acoustical rating system could define the acoustical energy efficiency of an enclosure space. In the summer the higher the R value the less cool air that escapes a room through a window and the less heat that penetrates into the interior of the room thus keeping the room cooler with less energy. Similarly in the winter the higher the R value the less heat that escapes a room through the window and the less cool air that penetrates into the interior thus keeping the room hotter with less energy. In a similar manner the higher the acoustical rating of a window the less noise that propagates into the interior of an enclosure thus maintaining lower levels of sound in the interior of an enclosure creating a more harmonious acoustically energy efficient room for enhanced health preventing sleep interference speech interference and maintaining safety levels according to EPA and OSHA standards. An acoustical rating system can help set standards for acceptably attenuated windows for a particular area or jurisdiction for sound quality especially low frequency noise e.g. 20 to 200 Hz .

An approach for acoustically rating windows can be seen in Table 1. An A Rating scheme is introduced as well as a S Rating scheme for the sound quality of windows. The A Rating scheme rates windows for low frequency sound from 20 200 Hz while the S Rating scheme rates windows for sound throughout the entire human hearing range of 20 20 000 Hz for the building and construction industry. The majority of noise pollution in the US is due to low frequency noise due to a long wavelength which is more difficult and costly to attenuate to produce soothing healthy energy efficient levels.

In another aspect of the invention there is provided a novel attenuator which offers quiet environments minimizing noise in the interior of enclosures compared to previous devices.

 a glass window windshield plexi glass plastic and any other apparatus that allows visible light to penetrate through and

 b at least one attenuator comprising mass spring damping element s for producing peaks of attenuation on the frequency spectrum according to Equation 3 to counteract peaks of noise propagating through glass plexi glass plastic windows windshields or the like into the interior of a house building shopping store restaurant vehicle cabin fuselage locomotive train subway cabin apartment hotel room space airport library museum or any other similar enclosure wherein the stiffness and damping characteristics are attributes of an elastic layer comprising foam gel sand rubber polymer or any other substance of elastic form and the mass characteristics are attributes of a mass layer comprising a metal including steel aluminum or any other metal composite rock stone concrete brick plastic or any other material of a fixed solid state. Optionally the system further comprises trim s as shown in which can also contain attenuators. Furthermore the system optionally comprises a cover over the top of the attenuator s to prevent the attenuator s from being tampered with. The cover could be in the shape of a dome square rectangle and any other shape necessary to cover the attenuator without coming into contact with the active elements of the attenuator s . The cover should have enough space to allow for deflection of small distances e.g. one inch two inches three inches or more depending on the natural vibration measurements of the glass window windshield .

In another aspect of the invention there is provided a novel attenuator which comprises a multi DOF attenuator that can be attached to the glass structure as shown in . The masses can be in various sizes shapes colors scenes forms of artwork animals places and any other design to enhance the d cor of a room store shop restaurant etc. aesthetically. As many DOF systems can be utilized as necessary to attenuate unwanted noise propagating through the glass.

In another aspect of the invention there is provided a novel attenuator which comprises an elastic layer wherein chambers are bored out of the elastic layer in the form of a cylinder square rectangular box or any other volumetric shape. The chambers can then be filled with a different material such as foam gel sand liquid or any other substance to which a mass can be adhered fastened bolted cemented secured or placed into communication with in any way to the material. Each filled chamber column can have a unique buoyancy with different stiffness characteristics in order to create peaks of attenuation at different frequencies to cancel peaks of noise propagating through the glass window windshield. shows an example of an attenuator with three separate chambers to create three separate attenuation peaks i.e. shows a 3 DOF attenuator . Additional chambers with masses on top can be created to obtain additional attenuation peaks as needed. Additional attenuators can also be utilized to increase the number of attenuation peaks as well. Attenuators slightly offset a few Hz from each other can help decrease energy splitting of a resonant peak when a mass ratio of greater than 4 is utilized see Equation 2 for Mass Ratio equation . Two filled chambers columns within the same attenuator can be tuned slightly off in frequency as well to help minimize splitting if needed. For example multiple attenuators are utilized in the system shown in which is similar in appearance to some armored truck windshields or Piper airplane windshields. The attenuators were designed to cancel energy propagating through the windshield at the BPF of the airplane which coincided with a mode in the 80 90 Hz region and a windshield mode that was closest to the second harmonic of the BPF approximately 200 Hz . Many of the attenuators were slightly offset in the 80 90 Hz region and thus the frequency response plot shown in is void of the windshield resonance being split into two smaller peaks in the 80 90 Hz region.

In another aspect of the invention there is provided a novel attenuator in which the chamber s of the attenuator s are filled with bags balloons of air or any other gas mixture and attached to separate distinct masses as shown in which comprise 

 b rubber bulbs that connect to the plastic tubing that can be squeezed to increase the pressure of a particular filled chamber column of air gas mixture as the pressure increases the stiffness increases which increases the attenuation peak and

 c knobs that connect to plastic tubing that connect to the chambers of air gas mixture by turning a knob pressure can be released from a particular bag balloon of air gas mixture in a chamber which decreases the frequency of the attenuation peak.

The ability to shift attenuation peak s enables a user to change the attenuation attributes of the attenuator for a particular environment. If a house is on a busy street constantly being barraged by vehicle traffic in which engine noise around 100 Hz is the primary acoustic energy propagating through the window then the user can adjust one of the peaks of attenuation to compensate and counteract the noise. Similarly if an office building is near an airport and needs to tune an attenuation peak to cancel out a particular airplane BPF e.g. around 85 Hz then the attenuator can be adjusted accordingly.

In another aspect of the invention there is provided a novel attenuator such as can be seen in in which filled chambers columns are formed in the elastic layer and 

 a the chambers are lined with a liner preferably a plastic liner and filled with a high viscosity magnetorheological MR fluid 

 d knobs on the side of the attenuator connect to the wires coming from the coil s and can increase decrease or turn off current being supplied to the coil s .

A low voltage battery or voltage supply would be needed for the knobs to be able to increase decrease or turn off current to a particular coil when a knob is turned. Current when flowing through the coil will create a magnetic field which can stiffen the MR fluid in the chambers with an increase in current. This in turn will increase the frequency of an attenuation peak as needed to counteract a particular peak of noise propagating through the glass into the interior of an enclosed area.

In another aspect of the invention there is provided a novel attenuator with one or more DOFs each of which is configured to automatically adjust the attenuator for a particular attenuation peak see . A microphone is utilized as a control feedback sensor which sends a signal to a CPU. The CPU can then increase decrease or turn off current to a particular coil. This can automatically adjust an attenuation peak to counteract a detrimental resonant peak contributing noise in the interior of an enclosure. The control system in a preferred embodiment can attempt to cancel the highest peaks in the 20 200 Hz region first before concentrating on detrimental peak s that might be present in higher frequency regions. For other embodiments any peak could be selected in the human hearing range in any particular order of preference.

For embodiments with many DOF systems like the one shown in many peaks of noise can be attenuated as shown in . Peaks can be attenuated for low frequency noise 20 to 200 Hz as shown in . Many peaks across the entire human hearing range can also be targeted as shown in to reduce broadband noise propagating through the glass into the interior of an enclosure. A rated and or S rated windows could then be established utilizing Table 1 and implemented for particular houses or buildings in a particular area.

Thus it will be seen that in one form of the invention there is provided an attenuator for reducing sound transmission through a window the attenuator comprising 

wherein the at least one elastic body is configured to be secured to the window intermediate the window and the at least one mass 

and further wherein the damping attribute of the at least one elastic body the stiffness attribute of the at least one elastic body and the at least one mass are selected so as to provide at least one frequency attenuation bandwidth focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission through the window. With this form of the invention the attenuator provides one or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 1 DOF attenuator a 2 DOF attenuator a 3 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

In one preferred form of the invention the damping attribute of the at least one elastic body the stiffness attribute of the at least one elastic body and the at least one mass are selected so as to provide at least two frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission through the window. With this form of the invention the attenuator provides two or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 2 DOF attenuator a 3 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

And in one preferred form of the invention the attenuator comprises a first elastic body characterized by a first damping attribute and a first stiffness attribute a second elastic body characterized by a second damping attribute and a second stiffness attribute a first mass and a second mass wherein the first elastic body is configured to be secured to the window intermediate window and the first mass and further wherein the second elastic body is configured to be secured to the first mass intermediate the first mass and the second mass. With this form of the invention the attenuator provides its elastic bodies and masses in series whereby to provide two or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 2 DOF attenuator a 3 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

And in one preferred form of the invention the attenuator comprises a first elastic body characterized by a first damping attribute and a first stiffness attribute a second elastic body characterized by a second damping attribute and a second stiffness attribute and a third elastic body characterized by a third damping attribute and a third stiffness a first mass a second mass and a third mass wherein the first elastic body is configured to be secured to the window intermediate the window and the first mass second elastic body is configured to be secured to the first mass intermediate the first mass and the second mass and the third elastic body is configured to be secured to the second mass intermediate the second mass and the third mass. With this form of the invention the attenuator provides its elastic bodies and masses in series whereby to provide three or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 3 DOF attenuator a 4 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

And in one preferred form of the invention the attenuator comprises at least one chamber formed in the at least one elastic body wherein a material is disposed within the at least one chamber. With this form of the invention the attenuator provides one or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 1 DOF attenuator a 2 DOF attenuator a 3 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

And in one preferred form of the invention the material filling the at least one chamber of the attenuator comprises a fluid and the attenuator comprises means for varying the quantity of fluid disposed within said chamber such that the attenuator provides one or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 1 DOF attenuator a 2 DOF attenuator a 3 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

And in one preferred form of the invention the material filling the at least one chamber of the attenuator comprises a magnetorheological MR fluid and the attenuator comprises means for creating a magnetic field around the at least one chamber so as to reduce the flowability of the material filling the at least one chamber such that the attenuator provides one or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 1 DOF attenuator a 2 DOF attenuator a 3 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

And in one preferred form of the invention a feedback loop control system may be used to automatically adjust the magnetic field around the at least one chamber so as to provide one or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 1 DOF attenuator a 2 DOF attenuator a 3 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

And in one preferred form of the invention there is provided a system for reducing sound transmission through a window the system comprising 

and further wherein the damping attribute of the at least one elastic body the stiffness attribute of the at least one elastic body and the at least one mass are selected so as to provide at least one frequency attenuation bandwidth focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission through the window. With this form of the invention the attenuator provides one or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 1 DOF attenuator a 2 DOF attenuator a 3 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

And in one preferred form of the invention there is provided a method for reducing sound transmission through a window the method comprising 

and further wherein the damping attribute of the at least one elastic body the stiffness attribute of the at least one elastic body and the at least one mass are selected so as to provide at least one frequency attenuation bandwidth focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission through the window. With this form of the invention the attenuator provides one or more frequency attenuation bandwidths each focused on a single resonant peak of sound transmission i.e. the attenuator may be characterized as a 1 DOF attenuator a 2 DOF attenuator a 3 DOF attenuator etc. . See for example .

It should be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the present invention may be made by those skilled in the art while still remaining within the principles and scope of the invention.

