---

title: Multiple interaction live monitoring
abstract: A system for multiple interaction live monitoring, comprising an interaction manager that receives an interaction from a contact center, a recording management server that monitors the interaction, and an administration interface that presents the monitored interaction for viewing by a human user, and a method for multiple interaction live monitoring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444938&OS=09444938&RS=09444938
owner: ZOOM International s.r.o.
number: 09444938
owner_city: Prague
owner_country: CZ
publication_date: 20150811
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 299 025 titled MULTIPLE INTERACTION LIVE MONITORING filed on Jun. 9 2014 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 978 964 titled MULTIPLE INTERACTIVE LIVE MONITORING which was filed on Apr. 13 2014 the entire specifications of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The disclosure relates to the field of contact center operations and more particularly to the field of monitoring contact center agents.

In the field of contact center operations it is a common need to monitor agents for such purposes as quality or performance review. Generally this involves recording agent interactions such as call recording for later review by a human analyst and the analyst may need to review multiple recordings possibly for multiple agents greatly delaying a review process. Additionally reviewing recordings after an interaction has occurred prevents any immediate action as might be deemed necessary based on the nature of the recording such as immediately speaking to an agent if needed. A further issue may be that of changing review policies for example an agent may be scored on a prior interaction using current criteria that may not have been in effect when the interaction took place negatively impacting the reliability of review operations.

What is needed is a means to view multiple agent interactions simultaneously with the ability to view interactions as they are occurring and as necessary provide interactive feedback to an ongoing interaction.

Accordingly the inventor has conceived and reduced to practice in a preferred embodiment of the invention a system and method for multiple interaction live monitoring.

According to a preferred embodiment of the invention a system for multiple interaction live monitoring comprising a recording management server that may monitor and record agent interactions such as by recording audio from a phone call or video recording of an agent s computer screen of one or more agents and an administration server that may receive these agent recordings and present them for review such as via an integral software review interface as is described below in an exemplary configuration in or an external or third party review system such as via a software application programming interface API or other integration means is disclosed. According to the embodiment various traditional contact center components may be utilized in connection with the components of the system such as an interactive voice response IVR system that may receive incoming customer interactions such as telephone calls and may collect customer information via prompts as is common practice in the art an automated call distribution ACD server that may route interactions to specific agents for handling or a computer telephony integration CTI server that may facilitate communication between computer and telephony based networks.

According to the embodiment an agent may receive an interaction such as when a customer places a telephone call to a contact center and it is routed to an agent for handling at which point a recording management server may begin monitoring the interaction. These interactions may be presented as they are occurring to an administration server such that a review analyst may view them concurrently or they may optionally be sent for storage in a database or other such storage means for later review as is common practice in the art. In either case an administration server may present multiple recordings simultaneously for viewing and may extract or retrieve relevant information such as the agent s name a topic of an interaction as might have been input by an agent after asking the customer probing questions current agent activities such as whether or not a call is on hold and also may utilize various additional or external components such as speech analytics systems or social media integration to provide additional information such as a caller s social networking information or speech qualities that might be determined through software or hardware based speech analysis such as detecting whether a customer is irritated excited or other emotional states or detecting topics of conversation that may not have been made available via other means . In this manner the function of the system of the invention may be easily expanded as desirable to include additional functions or to integrate with specific new systems or services or those already in place enabling ease of integration with current contact center operations.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention a method for multiple interaction live monitoring comprising the steps of receiving an interaction such as via an interaction manager initiating monitoring of the interaction such as utilizing a recording management server determining interaction details such as by receiving agent or customer input or via integration with various external resources such as social media networks or additional contact center systems and presenting the interaction along with relevant details in a plural view with additional interactions and their details such as via an administration server is disclosed. According to the embodiment interactions may be presented to a human user for immediate viewing by a variety of means such as a software review interface integral to the administration server as is described below referring to or by presenting the interactions to various external systems or services such as third party review software or storage systems such as databases where interactions may be stored for future review as needed. It should be appreciated that while reference may be made herein to specific methods of viewing and as envisioned by the inventor the most benefit may be gained from live viewing the principle functionality of the invention that is the display of multiple interactions and relevant details simultaneously for multiple interaction viewing may be applied to stored or live interactions or combinations thereof interchangeably.

The inventor has conceived and reduced to practice in a preferred embodiment of the invention a system and method for multiple interaction live monitoring.

One or more different inventions may be described in the present application. Further for one or more of the inventions described herein numerous alternative embodiments may be described it should be appreciated that these are presented for illustrative purposes only and are not limiting of the inventions contained herein or the claims presented herein in any way. One or more of the inventions may be widely applicable to numerous embodiments as may be readily apparent from the disclosure. In general embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice one or more of the inventions and it should be appreciated that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical software electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the particular inventions. Accordingly one skilled in the art will recognize that one or more of the inventions may be practiced with various modifications and alterations. Particular features of one or more of the inventions described herein may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments or figures that form a part of the present disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments of one or more of the inventions. It should be appreciated however that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or figures with reference to which they are described. The present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments of one or more of the inventions nor a listing of features of one or more of the inventions that must be present in all embodiments.

Headings of sections provided in this patent application and the title of this patent application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more communication means or intermediaries logical or physical.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. To the contrary a variety of optional components may be described to illustrate a wide variety of possible embodiments of one or more of the inventions and in order to more fully illustrate one or more aspects of the inventions. Similarly although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may generally be configured to work in alternate orders unless specifically stated to the contrary. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described in this patent application does not in and of itself indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of described processes may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to one or more of the invention s and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred. Also steps are generally described once per embodiment but this does not mean they must occur once or that they may only occur once each time a process method or algorithm is carried out or executed. Some steps may be omitted in some embodiments or some occurrences or some steps may be executed more than once in a given embodiment or occurrence.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device or article may be used in place of a single device or article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that a single device or article may be used in place of the more than one device or article.

The functionality or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices that are not explicitly described as having such functionality or features. Thus other embodiments of one or more of the inventions need not include the device itself.

Techniques and mechanisms described or referenced herein will sometimes be described in singular form for clarity. However it should be appreciated that particular embodiments may include multiple iterations of a technique or multiple instantiations of a mechanism unless noted otherwise. Process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of embodiments of the present invention in which for example functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Generally the techniques disclosed herein may be implemented on hardware or a combination of software and hardware. For example they may be implemented in an operating system kernel in a separate user process in a library package bound into network applications on a specially constructed machine on an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or on a network interface card.

Software hardware hybrid implementations of at least some of the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on a programmable network resident machine which should be understood to include intermittently connected network aware machines selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in memory. Such network devices may have multiple network interfaces that may be configured or designed to utilize different types of network communication protocols. A general architecture for some of these machines may be described herein in order to illustrate one or more exemplary means by which a given unit of functionality may be implemented. According to specific embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on one or more general purpose computers associated with one or more networks such as for example an end user computer system a client computer a network server or other server system a mobile computing device e.g. tablet computing device mobile phone smartphone laptop or other appropriate computing device a consumer electronic device a music player or any other suitable electronic device router switch or other suitable device or any combination thereof. In at least some embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented in one or more virtualized computing environments e.g. network computing clouds virtual machines hosted on one or more physical computing machines or other appropriate virtual environments .

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary computing device suitable for implementing at least a portion of the features or functionalities disclosed herein. Computing device may be for example any one of the computing machines listed in the previous paragraph or indeed any other electronic device capable of executing software or hardware based instructions according to one or more programs stored in memory. Computing device may be adapted to communicate with a plurality of other computing devices such as clients or servers over communications networks such as a wide area network a metropolitan area network a local area network a wireless network the Internet or any other network using known protocols for such communication whether wireless or wired.

In one embodiment computing device includes one or more central processing units CPU one or more interfaces and one or more busses such as a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus . When acting under the control of appropriate software or firmware CPU may be responsible for implementing specific functions associated with the functions of a specifically configured computing device or machine. For example in at least one embodiment a computing device may be configured or designed to function as a server system utilizing CPU local memory and or remote memory and interface s . In at least one embodiment CPU may be caused to perform one or more of the different types of functions and or operations under the control of software modules or components which for example may include an operating system and any appropriate applications software drivers and the like.

CPU may include one or more processors such as for example a processor from one of the Intel ARM Qualcomm and AMD families of microprocessors. In some embodiments processors may include specially designed hardware such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and so forth for controlling operations of computing device . In a specific embodiment a local memory such as non volatile random access memory RAM and or read only memory ROM including for example one or more levels of cached memory may also form part of CPU . However there are many different ways in which memory may be coupled to system . Memory may be used for a variety of purposes such as for example caching and or storing data programming instructions and the like. It should be further appreciated that CPU may be one of a variety of system on a chip SOC type hardware that may include additional hardware such as memory or graphics processing chips such as a Qualcomm SNAPDRAGON or Samsung EXYNOS CPU as are becoming increasingly common in the art such as for use in mobile devices or integrated devices.

As used herein the term processor is not limited merely to those integrated circuits referred to in the art as a processor a mobile processor or a microprocessor but broadly refers to a microcontroller a microcomputer a programmable logic controller an application specific integrated circuit and any other programmable circuit.

In one embodiment interfaces are provided as network interface cards NICs . Generally NICs control the sending and receiving of data packets over a computer network other types of interfaces may for example support other peripherals used with computing device . Among the interfaces that may be provided are Ethernet interfaces frame relay interfaces cable interfaces DSL interfaces token ring interfaces graphics interfaces and the like. In addition various types of interfaces may be provided such as for example universal serial bus USB Serial Ethernet FIREWIRE THUNDERBOLT PCI parallel radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH near field communications e.g. using near field magnetics 802.11 WiFi frame relay TCP IP ISDN fast Ethernet interfaces Gigabit Ethernet interfaces Serial ATA SATA or external SATA ESATA interfaces high definition multimedia interface HDMI digital visual interface DVI analog or digital audio interfaces asynchronous transfer mode ATM interfaces high speed serial interface HSSI interfaces Point of Sale POS interfaces fiber data distributed interfaces FDDIs and the like. Generally such interfaces may include physical ports appropriate for communication with appropriate media. In some cases they may also include an independent processor such as a dedicated audio or video processor as is common in the art for high fidelity A V hardware interfaces and in some instances volatile and or non volatile memory e.g. RAM .

Although the system shown in illustrates one specific architecture for a computing device for implementing one or more of the inventions described herein it is by no means the only device architecture on which at least a portion of the features and techniques described herein may be implemented. For example architectures having one or any number of processors may be used and such processors may be present in a single device or distributed among any number of devices. In one embodiment a single processor handles communications as well as routing computations while in other embodiments a separate dedicated communications processor may be provided. In various embodiments different types of features or functionalities may be implemented in a system according to the invention that includes a client device such as a tablet device or smartphone running client software and server systems such as a server system described in more detail below .

Regardless of network device configuration the system of the present invention may employ one or more memories or memory modules such as for example remote memory block and local memory configured to store data program instructions for the general purpose network operations or other information relating to the functionality of the embodiments described herein or any combinations of the above . Program instructions may control execution of or comprise an operating system and or one or more applications for example. Memory or memories may also be configured to store data structures configuration data encryption data historical system operations information or any other specific or generic non program information described herein.

Because such information and program instructions may be employed to implement one or more systems or methods described herein at least some network device embodiments may include nontransitory machine readable storage media which for example may be configured or designed to store program instructions state information and the like for performing various operations described herein. Examples of such nontransitory machine readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory devices ROM flash memory as is common in mobile devices and integrated systems solid state drives SSD and hybrid SSD storage drives that may combine physical components of solid state and hard disk drives in a single hardware device as are becoming increasingly common in the art with regard to personal computers memristor memory random access memory RAM and the like. It should be appreciated that such storage means may be integral and non removable such as RAM hardware modules that may be soldered onto a motherboard or otherwise integrated into an electronic device or they may be removable such as swappable flash memory modules such as thumb drives or other removable media designed for rapidly exchanging physical storage devices hot swappable hard disk drives or solid state drives removable optical storage discs or other such removable media and that such integral and removable storage media may be utilized interchangeably. Examples of program instructions include both object code such as may be produced by a compiler machine code such as may be produced by an assembler or a linker byte code such as may be generated by for example a Java compiler and may be executed using a Java virtual machine or equivalent or files containing higher level code that may be executed by the computer using an interpreter for example scripts written in Python Perl Ruby Groovy or any other scripting language .

In some embodiments systems according to the present invention may be implemented on a standalone computing system. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting a typical exemplary architecture of one or more embodiments or components thereof on a standalone computing system. Computing device includes processors that may run software that carry out one or more functions or applications of embodiments of the invention such as for example a client application . Processors may carry out computing instructions under control of an operating system such as for example a version of Microsoft s WINDOWS operating system Apple s Mac OS X or iOS operating systems some variety of the Linux operating system Google s ANDROID operating system or the like. In many cases one or more shared services may be operable in system and may be useful for providing common services to client applications . Services may for example be WINDOWS services user space common services in a Linux environment or any other type of common service architecture used with operating system . Input devices may be of any type suitable for receiving user input including for example a keyboard touchscreen microphone for example for voice input mouse touchpad trackball or any combination thereof. Output devices may be of any type suitable for providing output to one or more users whether remote or local to system and may include for example one or more screens for visual output speakers printers or any combination thereof. Memory may be random access memory having any structure and architecture known in the art for use by processors for example to run software. Storage devices may be any magnetic optical mechanical memristor or electrical storage device for storage of data in digital form such as those described above referring to . Examples of storage devices include flash memory magnetic hard drive CD ROM and or the like.

In some embodiments systems of the present invention may be implemented on a distributed computing network such as one having any number of clients and or servers. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary architecture for implementing at least a portion of a system according to an embodiment of the invention on a distributed computing network. According to the embodiment any number of clients may be provided. Each client may run software for implementing client side portions of the present invention clients may comprise a system such as that illustrated in . In addition any number of servers may be provided for handling requests received from one or more clients . Clients and servers may communicate with one another via one or more electronic networks which may be in various embodiments any of the Internet a wide area network a mobile telephony network such as CDMA or GSM cellular networks a wireless network such as WiFi Wimax LTE and so forth or a local area network or indeed any network topology known in the art the invention does not prefer any one network topology over any other . Networks may be implemented using any known network protocols including for example wired and or wireless protocols.

In addition in some embodiments servers may call external services when needed to obtain additional information or to refer to additional data concerning a particular call. Communications with external services may take place for example via one or more networks . In various embodiments external services may comprise web enabled services or functionality related to or installed on the hardware device itself. For example in an embodiment where client applications are implemented on a smartphone or other electronic device client applications may obtain information stored in a server system in the cloud or on an external service deployed on one or more of a particular enterprise s or user s premises.

In some embodiments of the invention clients or servers or both may make use of one or more specialized services or appliances that may be deployed locally or remotely across one or more networks . For example one or more databases may be used or referred to by one or more embodiments of the invention. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that databases may be arranged in a wide variety of architectures and using a wide variety of data access and manipulation means. For example in various embodiments one or more databases may comprise a relational database system using a structured query language SQL while others may comprise an alternative data storage technology such as those referred to in the art as NoSQL for example Hadoop Cassandra Google BigTable and so forth . In some embodiments variant database architectures such as column oriented databases in memory databases clustered databases distributed databases or even flat file data repositories may be used according to the invention. It will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that any combination of known or future database technologies may be used as appropriate unless a specific database technology or a specific arrangement of components is specified for a particular embodiment herein. Moreover it should be appreciated that the term database as used herein may refer to a physical database machine a cluster of machines acting as a single database system or a logical database within an overall database management system. Unless a specific meaning is specified for a given use of the term database it should be construed to mean any of these senses of the word all of which are understood as a plain meaning of the term database by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Similarly most embodiments of the invention may make use of one or more security systems and configuration systems . Security and configuration management are common information technology IT and web functions and some amount of each are generally associated with any IT or web systems. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that any configuration or security subsystems known in the art now or in the future may be used in conjunction with embodiments of the invention without limitation unless a specific security or configuration system or approach is specifically required by the description of any specific embodiment.

In various embodiments functionality for implementing systems or methods of the present invention may be distributed among any number of client and or server components. For example various software modules may be implemented for performing various functions in connection with the present invention and such modules may be variously implemented to run on server and or client components.

As further illustrated a system for multiple interaction live monitoring may be connected to and in communication with a contact center or may be a system operated by a contact center such that the system for multiple interaction live monitoring functions as a component of contact center . It should be appreciated that the system is shown separately in a connected fashion for clarity and a variety of arrangements may be possible according to the embodiment such as a system operated by a third party and provided as a service to one or more contact centers for example . A system for multiple interaction live monitoring may comprise an interaction manager that may receive information relevant to an interaction such as from a CTI server an IVR an ACD server or by direct connection to agent workstations to monitor an interaction in progress a recording management server that may monitor interactions and provide interaction details such as audio or video or detailed information received from an interaction manager to an administration interface that may then present the interaction for either viewing or storage interchangeably or both simultaneously such as for a human analyst to observe an interaction while also storing a copy for future reference . In this manner it can be appreciated that various contact center components may collect and process information on an interaction according to their normal functions and that an interaction manager may collect and aggregate this information to make it available for easier viewing and a recording management server may make multiple interactions presentable in an organized fashion such as via a monitoring interface as illustrated later referring to . It should also be appreciated that various external systems may be connected to or integrated with the operation of a system such as third party monitoring tools or services or external storage means such as databases or physical storage devices or any other such external components that may be connected via hardware such as via a physical or wired connection or via a communications network or software means such as via an API or other such software integration means as are common in the art. In this manner it can be appreciated that the function of a system may be provided as a service to contact centers by making it available for integration or connection to their existing systems and it should therefore also be appreciated that a single system may provide utility to multiple contact centers simultaneously.

Additionally any combination of details shown may be made interactive such that an analyst viewing an interaction may click or otherwise interact with the interface to perform operations such as to expand an interaction view for example to enlarge it and minimize other interactions so a user may focus on a particular interaction to provide feedback to an agent during an interaction to notify a supervisor of an agent in need of coaching or assistance or to view additional information related to the agent customer or interaction or to change the manner in which information is displayed such as to customize the display for a single interaction or to modify the display for all interactions going forward . In this manner a monitoring interface may serve as a communication interface between an analyst and agents as needed facilitating immediate feedback on review operations rather than providing feedback to an agent at a later time when they may have forgotten about a specific interaction as is common practice in the art when interactions are stored and reviewed at a later time rather than viewed while in progress .

An additional feature of a live display of an interaction as described herein may be the use of monitoring for key performance indicators KPIs such as specific phrases or actions that may indicate performance issues or coaching opportunities that should be addressed as well as monitoring agent behavior such as to ensure that they are focused on an interaction and following operational procedures such as not using their workstation for personal use during an interaction for example viewing blacklisted webpages playing games or other non interaction related activity . In this manner a display may indicate agents that are not following interaction related activities such as by displaying a visual indicator to notify a viewer that an agent is not paying attention or is performing restricted activities during an interaction or optionally an audio notification such as a tone or verbal cue may be sounded or other such indicators that may be used to get the attention of a viewer and direct them to the specific agent in question. It should be appreciated that while reference is made to indicating agents performing restricted activities such an indication may be made for a variety of purposes such as any form of sorting or ordering of interactions or indicating an interaction to a user for ease of location for various purposes or for indicating interactions optionally matching a search query submitted by a user such as to pick out a particular interaction from a display of numerous interactions rather than manually searching for it or any other such purpose that may make use of an indication or notification functionality.

The skilled person will be aware of a range of possible modifications of the various embodiments described above. Accordingly the present invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

