---

title: Location and device based student access control
abstract: Techniques are described for controlling access to an online service by a one or more authentication mechanisms based on device, browser, or location, or a combination of the three. A method comprises receiving a request to access a service, receiving, in association with the request, a first access mechanism, receiving a first and second level of authentication associated with the user requesting the service, updating authenticated-mechanism data to indicate that the first access mechanism is an authenticated access mechanism for the particular user, receiving a second request to access the service, in response to receiving a second request, determining whether the second access mechanism is an authenticated access mechanism for the particular user, upon determining that the second access mechanism is not an authenticated mechanism, requesting a second level of authentication for the particular user, otherwise granting access.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565183&OS=09565183&RS=09565183
owner: Apollo Education Group, Inc.
number: 09565183
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150313
---
The present invention relates to methods and systems for controlling access to online services and in particular for implementing access controls by means of geolocation and geofencing as well as by only permitting access from a particular device browser combination.

One way to restrict access to online content or services is to use username password authentication. Username password authentication is easily thwarted however when unauthorized users are told or otherwise obtain the username password of authorized users.

In some online environments such as online education it is particularly important to ensure that the person using log in credentials is the actual person that was provided those log in credentials. For example the integrity of tests that are administered online would be compromised if one student takes the test under another student s log in credentials. Therefore a need exists for an additional method of authentication that helps ensure that the person using an online service is the person that the online service believes is using the online service.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Methods and systems are provided for controlling access to online activities for example online exams and the like. A student can only be present in one place at a given time. They therefore cannot participate in two different online classroom activities at the same time. However current authentication methods do not ensure that a student s identity has not been compromised. Additionally an online activity provider may require a method of verifying that only the registered student and not someone who possesses the login credentials is participating in a given online classroom activity.

The administrator of an online service for example an exam may wish to restrict access to the service to a single device a single device browser combination or a single device browser location combination To accomplish this one or more access mechanisms can be defined. For example an authentication mechanism can be a location access control a device browser access control a user id password control or any other mechanism suitable for authenticating a user In one embodiment one or more access mechanisms can be combined to improve the authentication even further by being arranged in levels for example one access mechanism can comprise the first authentication level another access mechanism can comprise the second authentication level and so on. If a student taking part in such an activity attempts to log in for a second time using for example a different device a second authentication mechanism is used to verify their identity to ensure the login is not fraudulent. If the student successfully confirms his identity by the second authentication mechanism they can then be offered a choice between a being granted access to the activity on his current device thereby ceasing activity on the previous device or b continuing access on the previous device thereby being denied login on the current device . Additionally access may be controlled on the basis of comparing the time and location of an online session with the time and location of a previous session and determining whether it is possible for a user to have traveled the distance between the location of the current session and the location of the previous session. If the travel is not possible and the same user ID was used for both sessions then the second session is not allowed to proceed.

Client devices A C may be implemented by any type of computing device that is communicatively connected to network . Example implementations of client devices A C include without limitation workstations personal computers laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computers cellular telephony devices such as smart phones and any other type of computing device.

In network arrangement each of the client devices A C is configured with a respective web browser A C that may access tutoring service . Web browsers A C may be any web browser capable of running on the devices A C such as Firefox Safari Chrome and so on. Client devices A C may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionalities depending upon a particular implementation.

Further client devices A C are each communicatively coupled to a display device not shown in for displaying graphical user interfaces. Such a display device may be implemented by any type of device capable of displaying a graphical user interface. Example implementations of a display device include a monitor a screen a touch screen a projector a light display a display of a tablet computer a display of a telephony device a television etc.

Network may be implemented with any type of medium and or mechanism that facilitates the exchange of information between client devices A C and server device . Furthermore network may facilitate use of any type of communications protocol and may be secured or unsecured depending upon the requirements of a particular embodiment.

Server device may be implemented by any type of computing device that is capable of communicating with client devices A C over network . In a network arrangement server device is configured with an online service which may be part of a cloud computing service. Functionality attributed to online service may also be performed on client devices A C according to embodiments. Server device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionalities depending upon a particular implementation.

Server device is communicatively coupled to database . As shown in database includes various data elements that can be used to tailor the online service for the individual needs of each user at respective client devices A C as discussed in further detail below for example authenticated mechanism data and associated information location data and user data. These various types of data are described in greater detail below. Database may reside in any type of storage including volatile and non volatile storage e.g. random access memory RAM one or more hard or floppy disks main memory etc. and may be implemented by multiple logical databases. The storage on which database resides may be external or internal to server device .

Any of browsers A C and online service may receive and respond to Application Programming Interface API calls Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP messages requests via HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP or any other kind of communication. Further any of browsers A C and online service may send one or more of the following over network to one of the other entities information via HTTP HTTPS SMTP etc. XML data SOAP messages API calls and other communications according to embodiments.

In an embodiment each of the processes described are performed automatically and may be implemented using one or more computer programs other software elements and or digital logic in any of a general purpose computer or a special purpose computer while performing data retrieval transformation and storage operations that involve interacting with and transforming the physical state of memory of the computer.

At step it is determined whether the user has previously provided authentication information for a second authentication mechanism . This determination may be made for example by examining database to determine if authentication information for the second authentication mechanism has been associated with the user . Upon determining that authentication information for the second authentication mechanism has been associated with the user the method proceeds to step and permits access to the service.

Upon determining that authentication information for the second authentication mechanism has not been associated with the user at step the user is prompted to for authentication information for the second authentication mechanism . For example in the case where the second authentication mechanism is a challenge question system the authentication information can comprise one or more challenge questions and associated responses. In one embodiment the challenge questions can be pre selected and the user can be prompted to provide answers thereto. In another embodiment the challenge questions can also be written by the user with the user also writing the responses thereto. Additionally or alternatively the second authentication mechanism can comprise a biometric identification device a smart card or any other authentication mechanism that can confirm the identity of the user . The second authentication method should be one that differs from the first authentication mechanism. The second authentication mechanism only needs to be configured once for each user. Once authentication information of a user has been obtained for the second access mechanism the information can be permanently stored for example on the database and retrieved when necessary to confirm the identity of a user .

In one embodiment an online activity can permit simultaneous access from different devices or different browsers on the same device. If the online activity does not permit simultaneous access the properly authenticated user is prompted to choose the device on which he or she wishes to participate in the online activity and the other device is thereby logged out.

According to one embodiment when a user attempts to obtain access to an online service the online service determines whether the device browser combination that is being used by the user is known . For known device browser combinations authentication using a first authentication mechanism is sufficient. On the other hand for unknown device browser combinations authentication using a second authentication mechanism or both the first and second authentication mechanism is required. In one embodiment a device browser combination is known relative to a user if that user has previously used that same device browser combination to access the online service.

At step user logs in providing the authentication information required by the first authentication mechanism e.g. a userid password . According to one embodiment as part of the login step the client device A sends to server device the device browser identifier UDBI. At step the server device determines whether the device browser combination that is being used by user is a known device browser combination for user . For example service device may compare UDBI with the UDBIs that are stored in the database for previous sessions by the same user . Step is a binary decision step. If UDBI matches any previously stored UDBIs for user in other words if the device browser combination is one that the user has used before then the method proceeds to step .

If at step the method determines that UDBI is not a known device browser combination for user then the method instead proceeds to step wherein the user is required to authenticate using a second authentication mechanism.

As detailed above the second authentication mechanism can employ any authentication method for example a set of one or more challenge questions a biometric authentication method or any other suitable authentication method. The second authentication method should differ from the first authentication method. If a user is successfully authenticated by the second authentication mechanism at step then the method proceeds to step . At step the user is asked whether the user desires the UDBI of the user s current device browser combination to be stored. In response to an affirmative response at step server device stores UDBI in the database in association with user . Alternative at step the user may also choose to decline to tag the device browser combination as a known device for user . This may occur for example if he is borrowing a friend s device or if he is attempting to access the service from a public computer.

At step the server device determines whether the service that the user wishes to access allows simultaneous access from multiple devices or multiple browsers on the same device. If the service permits simultaneous access at step access is granted.

At step if the service does not permit simultaneous access from multiple devices or browsers the method proceeds to step . At step the user is prompted to choose between continuing the activity on the previous device or the current device. If the user chooses to continue the activity on the current device the method advances to step and access is granted. If the student chooses to continue the activity on the device he logged in from previously the method proceeds to step and access to the desired activity is denied.

In an embodiment was described in which device browser combinations were treated as known or unknown where unknown device browser combinations require an additional level of authentication. In an alternative embodiment the known unknown determination may be performed at the device level rather than the device browser combination level. In such an embodiment a device would be treated as known if the user had previously used the device to access the service even if the previous access was performed using a different application than the user is currently using to access the service.

Proceeding at step server device obtains location information and time information pertaining to the current login. In one embodiment server device can obtain location information of the user device from the GPS system on the user device. In another embodiment server device the location information can be obtained from the IP address associated with the login by querying the Internet Service Provider on the current location of the device or any other suitable method of determining the current location. In one embodiment the time information can be obtained from the system time of the server device . Server device records the location and time information at the end of a session and stores the information in the database . At step server device retrieves location and time information recorded at the end of the previous login session. At step the server device determines whether the user could have plausibly traveled from the location associated with the user s most recent session with the service to his current location in the time that has expired since the user s most recent session with the service. Step can be performed for example by comparing the time and location of the current login to a time and location of the preceding login. Service device may use a publicly available service such as Google Maps to determine how much time it takes for a person to travel between the two locations. If travel is determined to be feasible between the locations in the time that has lapsed between sessions the method proceeds to step permitting access to the online activity. If travel is determined to be unfeasible between the locations in the amount of time that lapsed between sessions the method proceeds to step and access is denied.

Referring back to step in one embodiment the server device can calculate the distance between the location of the current login and the location of the previous login using the HTML location data. In another embodiment the server device can determine the location of the device from the known location of a WiFi hotspots that the device is currently connected to. In another embodiment the server device can determine the location of the device from the known location of a cellular tower that the device is currently connected to. Server device can then calculate the time elapsed between the current login and the previous login by comparing the current system time with the system time recorded during the previous login. To determine whether travel between the locations is possible in the time elapsed the server device uses the distance and time elapsed values obtained to calculate an average speed and compares the calculated speed value to a pre defined plausible average speed value. If the calculated speed value is lower than the pre defined average speed value then travel between the locations is plausible.

In another embodiment the server device can calculate the distance between the location of the current login and the location of the previous login and calculate the time elapsed between the current login and the previous login. To determine whether travel between the locations is possible in the time elapsed the server device uses the values obtained to calculate an average speed and compares the calculated speed value to previously observed average speed values. If the calculated speed value is lower than the previously observed average speed values then travel between the locations is plausible.

In another embodiment the server device can query a public travel site to obtain the travel time between the locations using the location of the previous login as the point of departure and the location of the current login as the point of arrival. Any suitable travel site such as Kayak Travelocity or the like may be utilized. Server device can then determine whether travel between the locations is plausible by comparing the travel time obtained from the public travel site to the time elapsed between the current login and the previous login.

In another embodiment the device browser access control and location access control as detailed above can be combined to provide an additional level of authentication. For example a location based access control could be administered following the device browser authentication step. Additionally or alternatively the location based access control could be administered before or concurrently with the device browser authentication step.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or solid state drive is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical disks magnetic disks or solid state drives such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

