---

title: Systems and methods for scanning a user environment and evaluating data of interest
abstract: According to various embodiments, a mobile device continuously and/or automatically scans a user environment for tags containing non-human-readable data. The mobile device may continuously and/or automatically scan the environment for tags without being specifically directed at a particular tag. The mobile device may be adapted to scan for audio tags, radio frequency tags, and/or image tags. The mobile device may be configured to scan for and identify tags within the user environment that satisfy a user preference. The mobile device may perform an action in response to identifying a tag that satisfies a user preference. The mobile device may be configured to scan for a wide variety of tags, including tags in the form of quick response codes, steganographic content, audio watermarks, audio outside of a human audible range, radio frequency identification tags, long wavelength identification tags, near field communication tags, and/or a Memory Spot device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477864&OS=09477864&RS=09477864
owner: ELWHA, LLC
number: 09477864
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151027
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 U.S.C. 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s .

This U.S. patent application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 410 141 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SCANNING A USER ENVIRONMENT AND EVALUATING DATA OF INTEREST filed on Mar. 1 2012 which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

If the listings of applications provided herein are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicants to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

This disclosure relates to personal data capturing devices adapted to continuously and or automatically scan a user s environment. Specifically this disclosure relates to continuously and or automatically scanning a user environment and aggregating data that may be of interest to a user.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

According to various embodiments a mobile device continuously and or automatically scans a user environment for tags containing non human readable data. The mobile device may continuously and or automatically scan the environment for tags without being specifically directed at a particular tag. The mobile device may be adapted to scan for audio tags radio frequency RF tags and or image tags. The mobile device may be configured to scan for and identify tags within the user environment that satisfy a user preference. The mobile device may perform an action in response to identifying a tag that satisfies a user preference. In some embodiments user preferences are provided by the user by a third party based on social network information or location and or deduced from available information related to the user. The mobile device may be configured to scan for a wide variety of tags including tags in the form of quick response QR codes steganographic content audio watermarks audio outside of a human audible range radio frequency identification RFID tags long wavelength identification LWID tags near field communication NFC tags and or a Memory Spot device. In some embodiments the mobile device scans tags within an environment and then utilizes an integrated computing device to identify tags that satisfy a user preference and perform an action in response to an identified tag. In other embodiments the mobile device utilizes a remote computing device such as a cloud computing device to identify the tags that satisfy a user preference and or perform actions in response to identified tags. The computing device may also verify the authenticity of the tag and or decrypt a scanned tag.

A mobile device may continuously and or automatically scan a user environment for tags containing non human readable data. The mobile device may scan for a wide variety of tags without being specifically directed at a particular tag including tags in the form of QR codes steganographic content audio watermarks audio outside of a human audible range radio frequency identification RFID tags long wavelength identification LWID tags near field communication NFC tags and or a Memory Spot device. The mobile device may be adapted to scan for a wide variety of audio tags radio frequency RF tags and or image tags.

The mobile device may automatically enhance a scanning parameter associated with the mobile device s ability to scan for tags. For example the mobile device may adjust the aim of the mobile device e.g. a steerable microphone adjust the focus of the mobile device adjust the field of view of the imaging device adjust the exposure of the imaging device and or apply a noise reduction or noise canceling algorithm. The ability of the mobile device to enhance a scanning parameter may depend on the type of tag being detected. For example in the case of a mobile imaging device the mobile device may adjust an optical focus. In the case of a mobile device adapted to detect RF tags the mobile device may adjust a sensor focal point or sensitivity to a specific frequency. In the case of a mobile device adapted to detect audio tags the mobile device may adjust an auditory focus point within an environment such as focusing on a particular speaker in an environment containing multiple speakers.

Once a tag has been scanned within the user environment the mobile device may determine if the tag satisfies a user preference. In some embodiments the mobile device may include an integrated computing device capable of processing the scanned tag to determine if it satisfies a user preference. In other embodiments the mobile device may rely on a remote computing device such as a cloud computing device. The user preferences may be specified by a user based on historical user input based on social network information associated with the user based on an absolute or relative location of the user and or the date or time. For example user preferences may include certain topics brands information types advertisements pricing reviews sale information and or other information as directly or indirectly specified by a user.

For instance a user may be interested in rock climbing and may the topic of rock climbing may be incorporated as a user preference. Topics incorporated as user preferences may include topics that are broad and or relatively narrow. For example a broad topic such as a user s interest in horses may be a broad topic user preference. A user s interest in methods of shoeing horses during the eighteenth century may be a relatively narrow topic incorporated as a user preferences. Other topics may be related to food clothing work hobbies vacations educational animals behavior course curriculums medical conditions anthropology politics sports science arts history technology news and the like. Similarly a user s interest in purchasing clothing electronics multimedia and or other consumer goods of a certain brand may be incorporated as a user preference. Such as for example a user s temporary interest in purchasing sunglasses of a particular brand name. A user s interest in brands associated with goods or services may be incorporated as user preferences.

The mobile device may perform an action in response to identifying a tag that satisfies one or more user preferences. For example the mobile device may store or aggregate information from one or more tags. In one embodiment the tag may contain or provide a link to supplemental content. The supplemental content may be in the form of informational data related to the tag a filename a web address such as a universal resource locator URL an Internet protocol IP address a media access control MAC address an email address a social network handle or address a messaging address a phone number and or other supplemental content. Supplemental content obtained from an identified tag may be directly provided to a user stored for eventual retrieval aggregated with related supplemental content or tags and or provided to the user in the aggregate with other related supplemental content or tags. Additionally supplemental content obtained from an identified tag may be compared with supplemental content obtained from other tags and or historical data associated with the identified tag. For example pricing information associated with an identified tag or set of tags may be compared to pricing information of associated tags previously scanned and or with pricing information of associated tags stored in an accessible database.

In some embodiments the mobile device may perform an action that includes notifying the user or a third party that a tag has been identified that satisfies one or more user preferences. For example the mobile device may provide an audible alert or visual alert send a message or email to a user and or update a webpage database blog and or social network site. The mobile device may additionally or alternatively notify a third party. For instance the mobile device may transmit a purchase order a request for a sample a request for a coupon and or a request for additional information. Such an action may be automatically performed by the mobile device or after verification by the user. In response to identifying a tag that satisfies one or more user preferences the mobile device may transmit information to a third party related to the user such as demographic information contact information a username a password financial information a user location a user comment social network information associated with the user and or other information related to the user. Such information may be provided to a third party anonymously or with personal identifying information.

The mobile device may be configured to continuously and or automatically scan any of a wide variety of user environments for any of a wide variety of tags. User environments may include areas proximate the user including areas within visual or audible range of the user print media audio media visual media store displays and billboards. Additionally the mobile device may be configured to continuously and or automatically scan for RF tags within a predetermined range of a user. The mobile device may scan for tags in the form of visual tags audio tags and or RF tags including but not limited to bar codes QR codes steganographic content audio watermarks audio outside of a human audible RFID tags LWID tags NFC tags and or Memory Spot devices. For example a camera on a mobile device may be configured to scan for visual tags that are not visible to the human eye such as infrared tags and ultraviolet tags.

In some embodiments the mobile device includes an integrated computing device configured to identify tags that satisfy the one or more user preferences and perform actions in response to an identified tag. Alternatively the mobile device may utilize a remote computing device such as a cloud computing device to identify the tags that satisfy a user preference and or perform actions in response to identified tags. The computing device may also verify the authenticity of the tag and or decrypt a scanned tag. The mobile device and or the computing device may be integrated within and or include a cellular telephone a personal computer a laptop a tablet device a wearable device clothing jewelry headgear such as eyeglasses earphones earbuds a briefcase and or other portable accessory.

The mobile device may be configured to visually scan for image tags using a camera having a fixed or adjustable field of view. For example the camera may have a wide angle lens such as a fisheye lens adapted to continuously and or automatically scan a wide field of view. Alternatively the camera may be configured to continuously and or automatically scan a field of view approximating that of the user. The mobile device may alternatively or additionally be configured to continuously and or automatically scan for audio tags using one or more microphones and or scan for RF tags using one or more antennas.

As used herein the term automatically scanning refers to scanning independent of or without user action once a device has been activated. For example the mobile device may be initially activated by a user after which the mobile device may scan the user s environment for one or more tags without additional user action. As used herein the term continuously scanning refers to scanning without interruption once activated. For example the mobile device may be initially activated by a user after which the mobile device may scan the user s environment for one or more tags without interruption.

Some of the infrastructure that can be used with embodiments disclosed herein is already available such as general purpose computers RF tags RF antennas and associated readers cameras and associated image processing components microphones and associated audio processing components computer programming tools and techniques digital storage media and communications networks. A computing device may include a processor such as a microprocessor microcontroller logic circuitry or the like. The processor may include a special purpose processing device such as an ASIC PAL PLA PLD FPGA or other customized or programmable device. The computing device may also include a computer readable storage device such as non volatile memory static RAM dynamic RAM ROM CD ROM disk tape magnetic optical flash memory or other computer readable storage medium.

Various aspects of certain embodiments may be implemented using hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein a software module or component may include any type of computer instruction or computer executable code located within or on a computer readable storage medium. A software module may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as a routine program object component data structure etc. that performs one or more tasks or implements particular abstract data types.

In certain embodiments a particular software module may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations of a computer readable storage medium which together implement the described functionality of the module. Indeed a module may comprise a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several computer readable storage media. Some embodiments may be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by a remote processing device linked through a communications network.

In the exemplary embodiments depicted in the drawings the size shape orientation placement configuration and or other characteristics of tags computing devices advertisements cameras antennas microphones and other aspects of mobile devices are merely illustrative. Specifically mobile devices computing devices tags and associated electronic components may be manufactured very small and may not necessarily be as obtrusive as depicted in the drawings. Moreover image audio and RF tags which may be significantly smaller than illustrated may be less intrusively placed and or configured differently from those depicted in the drawings.

The embodiments of the disclosure will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout. The components of the disclosed embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Furthermore the features structures and operations associated with one embodiment may be applicable to or combined with the features structures or operations described in conjunction with another embodiment. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of this disclosure.

Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of the systems and methods of the disclosure is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure as claimed but is merely representative of possible embodiments. In addition the steps of a method do not necessarily need to be executed in any specific order or even sequentially nor need the steps be executed only once.

A computing device may then identify a tag within the user environment that satisfies one or more user preferences at . The computing device may be integrated within the mobile device. Alternatively the mobile device may be in communication with a remote computing device such as a computing device in a cloud computing environment configured to identify the tag within the user environment. The computing device may then determine what action should be performed in association with the identified tag at .

The computing device alone or in conjunction with the mobile device may perform the determined action at . For example the mobile device may provide an audible visual or haptic alert to the user that a tag satisfying one or more user preferences has been detected. Information from the tag or supplemental information related to the tag may be presented to the user via the mobile device. For instance a display screen may present supplemental information related to an advertisement in a retail establishment. An email or other message related to the tag may be provided to the user.

A computing device may then identify a tag within the user environment that satisfies one or more user preferences at . As an example as the user visits various retail establishments the mobile device may continuously and or automatically scan for image tags as the user wearing the personal mobile device visits various retail establishments. The user preferences may be specified by a user based on historical user input based on social network information associated with the user based on an absolute or relative location of the user and or the date or time. The user preferences may include certain topics brands information types advertisements pricing reviews sale information and or other information as directly or indirectly specified by a user. Accordingly as the user visits the various retail establishments the mobile device may identify image tags that are associated with an item on sale associated with a particular brand item correspond to items purchased in the past and or are associated with user provided preferences. In addition the user preferences may include criteria such as the current location of the user the current time and or date and image data proximate the tag. For example user preferences may indicate an interest in all tags proximate a certain type of image advertisement topics and or the like.

The computing device may be integrated within the mobile device. Alternatively the mobile device may be in communication with a remote computing device such as a computing device in a cloud computing environment configured to identify the tag within the user environment. The computing device may also decrypt the identified tag at . It may be necessary to decrypt the tag at prior to identifying the tag at . In some embodiments it may be possible to identify the tag prior to decrypting the tag. In such embodiments it may be necessary to decrypt supplemental content associated with an identified tag. The authenticity of the decrypted tag may also be verified by the computing device at .

Various components and systems may utilize encryption and decryption algorithms in order to provide increased security. For example transmission of data to or from the mobile device may be encrypted. In some embodiments an scanned and or identified tag may only be decrypted by authorized users. Accordingly unauthorized users may not have access to the tag and or supplemental content associated with a particular tag. In some embodiments a user may be considered an authorize user based on the age of the user a membership of the user a subscription of the user a fee paid by the user and or by other distinguishing characteristics. Tags may contain information encrypted using a plurality of different encryption keys such that decrypting a tag may include decrypting an identified tag using a decryption key specific to a particular user.

Once the identified tag has been decrypted and verified the computing device may determine an action that should be performed associated with the identified tag at . The computing device alone or in conjunction with the mobile device may perform the determined action at . For example the mobile device may store or aggregate information from one or more tags. The tag itself may be recorded or information from the tag may be recorded. Additionally the context in which the tag was read may be recorded. Accordingly the tag may be recorded information obtained from the tag may be recorded and or the date time location nearby imagery and or other contextual information may be recorded as well.

In one embodiment the tag may contain or provide a link to supplemental content. The supplemental content may be in the form of informational data related to the tag a filename web address such as a URL an IP address a MAC address an email address a social network handle or address a messaging address a phone number and or other supplemental content. Supplemental content obtained from an identified tag may be directly provided to the user stored for eventual retrieval aggregated with related supplemental content or tags and or provided to the user in the aggregate with other related supplemental content or tags.

In some embodiments the mobile device performs an action that includes notifying or interacting with a third party. For example the mobile device may notify a user that a tag has been identified that satisfies one or more user preferences. The mobile device may provide an audible alert a visual alert or a haptic alert send a message or email to a user and or update a webpage database blog and or social network site. As another example the mobile device may transmit a purchase order a request for a sample a request for a coupon and or a request for additional information. Such an action may be automatically performed by the mobile device or after verification by the user. The mobile device may notify a user that a tag has been identified that satisfies one or more user preferences and then perform a related second action. For example once the user has been notified the mobile device may perform a second follow up action unless the user opts out only if directed by the user and or based on a user selection of a second follow up action. For instance the mobile device may identify a tag offering a free sample of a product the user may be notified that the free sample is available and that the free sample will be ordered unless the user opts out within a specified time frame.

In response to identifying a tag that satisfies one or more user preferences the mobile device may transmit information to a third party related to the user such as demographic information contact information a username a password financial information and or other information related to the user. Such information may be provided to a third party anonymously or with personal identifying information. The mobile device may communicate with the third party and receive instructions to perform a second follow up action. For example the mobile device may identify a tag that satisfies one or more user preferences and perform an action that includes communicating with a third party. The third party may direct the mobile device to perform a second action. The second third party directed action may be automatically performed performed only if the third party is a trusted third party and or performed only if the user authorizes the performance.

A computing device associated with the personal mobile imaging device may identify an image tag within the user environment that satisfies one or more user preferences at . The computing device may be a remote computing device or integrated within the personal mobile imaging device. The authenticity of the identified image tag may be verified by the remote computing device at by a third party or by the user. The computing device may determine an action to be performed with respect to the user based upon the identified image tag at . The computing device may also determine an action to be performed with respect to a third party based on the identified image tag at . The action s with respect to each of the third party and the user may then be performed at .

For example the computing device alone or in conjunction with the personal mobile imaging device may provide an alert purchase a product request additional feedback from the user request additional information related to the image tag from a third party and or otherwise interact with a third party and or the user. In some embodiments the personal mobile device aggregates information from a plurality of tags that satisfy one or more user preferences. The aggregate data whether obtained directly from the image tags or from supplemental material associated with the plurality of tags may then be presented to the user and or a third party.

The location identification module may provide the mobile device with relative and or absolute location information. For example the location identification module may include a global positioning system GPS receiver. The location identification module may additionally or alternatively be configured to receive or determine the relative location of the mobile device with respect to a fixed object such as a building or with respect to people such as the friends of a user of the mobile device . The speaker module may be configured to provide audible feedback to a user. In various embodiments the speaker module may be utilized as part of an action performed in association with a tag that is determined to satisfy one or more user preferences. For example the mobile device may audibly inform a user via the speaker module that an item is on sale that a particular brand item has been detected that a needed service is being offered or that a solicitation satisfying a user specified condition has been identified.

The microphone module may be configured to continuously and or automatically scan an environment for audio tags. Additionally or alternatively the microphone module may be configured to receive and process voice input from a user. For example the microphone module may be utilized by a user to provide voice commands provide user preferences and or store voice memorandums. The data and or charge port may provide an interface to charge a power supply and or to upload or download data from storage and or memory module . In one example the data charge port may conform to an industry standard such as universal serial bus USB or IEEE FireWire . The processing unit may perform visual audio and or RF processing associated with one or more of the camera module the speaker module and an RF module . The processing unit may also be configured to identify scanned tags that satisfy one or more user preferences. In some embodiments the mobile device does not include the processing unit rather the mobile device may be in communication with a remote processing unit.

The time signal module may be configured to provide an accurate relative or absolute time. In some embodiments the time signal module may be in communication with a GPS receiver or include a voltage controlled oscillator a voltage controlled crystal oscillator and or other time keeping device. The data storage and or memory may be accessible to various other modules and may be adapted to store various user preferences. The RF module may be configured to continuously and or automatically scan a user environment for RF tags. For example the RF module may include a remote sensor such as an RFID sensor adapted to receive identification information from an electronic identification device EID such as an RFID tag. In some embodiments the mobile device includes a display interface module . The display interface module may be configured to provide visual feedback to a user via a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD or organic light emitting diode OLED display. Furthermore the display interface module may be configured to receive user input via a touch interface associated with the display screen.

According to various embodiments various modules described in conjunction with may be omitted and or other modules not illustrated may be added to any given embodiment of the mobile device . For example the mobile device may include each of the camera module for scanning image tags the microphone module for scanning audio tags and the RF module for scanning RF tags. Alternatively the mobile device may include only one of the camera module the microphone module and the RF module . Similarly the mobile device may rely on the processing unit as a computing device or the mobile device may utilize a remote computing device instead of or in addition to the processing unit .

As illustrated the mobile device may include various input buttons a display screen a data charge port a speaker a microphone and an LED . A strap or other attachment device may be used to secure the mobile device . For example the strap may be used to secure the mobile device around the neck shoulder or wrist of a user. According to various embodiments any of the various functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be integrated within the mobile device . Similarly some of the various functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be performed remotely. For example a wireless communication module may be integrated within the mobile device enabling various data storage and or processing operations to take place in a cloud computing environment rather than within the mobile device .

According to the illustrated embodiment the camera may be configured to continuously and or automatically scan a user environment for image tags. A computing device either a remote computing device or a computing device integrated within the mobile device may then identify image tags that satisfy one or more user preferences and perform an associated action.

The mobile device illustrated in may not include a camera and may instead be adapted to scan for audio tags using a microphone . The personal mobile device of may include one or more of the various input buttons the display screen the data charge port the speaker the LED and the strap . In similar fashion the mobile device illustrated in may include an RF antenna configured to continuously and or automatically scan a user environment for RF tags. The personal mobile device may not include a camera and is illustrated as having a larger display screen . Again the shape size configuration layout and dimensions of the various components of the mobile device may be adapted for a particular application. Specifically some features may be omitted from some embodiments integrated within other personal electronic devices and or performed by remote electronic devices.

Additionally one or two of the camera the RF sensor and associated antenna and the microphone may be omitted from the mobile device . In such embodiments a wireless communication module may connect one or more of the camera the RF antenna and the microphone to a remote device configured to perform one or more of the functions associated with modules . For example in one embodiment the eyeglasses may include only the camera a power supply and a communication module either wireless or via the data port .

In such an embodiment the camera may be configured to continuously and or automatically scan a user environment for image tags and transmit wireless or via the data port scanned image tags to a remote device capable of identifying those image tags that satisfy one or more user preferences. The remote device may then perform an action in response to the image tags that satisfied the one or more user preferences. In one embodiment the mobile device may further include a feedback mechanism such as LED alert or the display capable of providing feedback to a user wearing the eyeglasses . Any of the various functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be integrated within or performed by the mobile device . Similarly some of the various functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be performed remotely.

In such embodiments the data port and or a wireless communication module may facilitate communication between the microphone in the necklace and other of the modules in a remote device. Accordingly the microphone may continuously and or automatically scan a user environment for audio tags and transmit scanned audio tags wirelessly or via the data port to a remote device configured to identify those audio tags that satisfy one or more user preferences. The remote device may then perform an action in response to the audio tags that satisfied the one or more user preferences. In some embodiments some processing and or data storage may be performed locally within the mobile device integrated within the necklace . Any of the various functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be integrated within or performed by the mobile device and as described herein some of the functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be performed remotely.

Audio tags may comprise audio generated using parametric ultrasonic techniques audio from an electromechanical speaker audio from a radio broadcast audio from a live event or audio from a television broadcast. The audio tags may be ultrasonic subsonic and or within the range of human hearing. According to various embodiments audio tags at any frequency range may be embedded or encoded within audio detectable by a human user. In some embodiments an audio tag may be embedded as an audio watermark within other audio content.

The data port and or a wireless communication module may facilitate communication between the RF antenna and associated RF sensor in hat and other of the modules in a remote device. Accordingly the RF antenna and the RF sensor may continuously and or automatically scan a user environment for audio tags and transmit scanned RF tags wirelessly or via the data port to a remote device configured to identify those RF tags that satisfy one or more user preferences. The remote device may then perform an action in response to the RF tags that satisfied the one or more user preferences. In some embodiments some processing and or data storage may be performed locally within the mobile device integrated within the hat . Any of the various functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be integrated within or performed by the mobile device and some of the functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be performed remotely by a remote computing device.

The mobile device may be configured to be worn around the neck of the user or may alternatively be integrated within the clothing or other accessory of the user . The field of view may be adjustable or fixed. As previously described the shape size configuration layout and available functions and peripheral input outputs of the mobile device may be modified omitted or augmented for a particular application.

Alternatively the mobile device may be selectively and or temporarily carried by the user . For example user may be handed the mobile device upon entering the retail establishment . The mobile device may be temporarily provided to the user until the user leaves the retail establishment . In such embodiments the mobile device may be carried by worn by and or otherwise associated with the location of the user while the user is in the retail establishment .

According to the illustrated embodiment the mobile device may be configured to continuously and or automatically scan the shirts the cans and the print material for associated tags. According to various embodiments the mobile device may continuously and or automatically scan for RF tags image tags and or audio tags. For example the shirts may be associated with tags containing non human readable data in the form of an RFID tag or an image tag such as a QR code. The user may visually observe each of the print material the cans and the shirts however the mobile device may scan tags associated with each of them and identify those tags that satisfy one or more user preferences.

For example the user may not notice that the print material contains a coupon for a new bicycle. The mobile device while continuously and or automatically scanning the environment may scan a tag containing non human readable data associated with the print material . A computing device remote or local to the mobile device may determine that the scanned tag satisfied a user preference. The satisfied user preference indicating an interest in bicycles may have been user provided based on social network information deduced from available information related to the user and or otherwise determined. The computing device may then determine what action should be taken in response to identifying a tag that satisfied a user preference.

The action taken may be with respect to the user and or a third party. For example the mobile device may provide an audible alert a visual alert vibrate send a message or email to the user and or update a webpage database blog and or social network site. The mobile device may additionally or alternatively notify a third party. For instance the mobile device may transmit a purchase order for the bicycle or the print material request the coupon and or request additional information about the print material the coupon or the bicycle. The mobile device may transmit information to a third party related to the user such as demographic information contact information a username a password financial information and or other information related to the user . Such information may be provided to a third party anonymously or with personal identifying information.

Similarly the mobile device may scan the barcode and the QR code associated with the boxed items . In one embodiment the QR code may satisfy one or more user preferences and the user may be alerted that the boxed items are within his field of view. As an example the user may have routinely purchased the boxed items in the past. The mobile device may have automatically included a user preference to look for the boxed items at a price below a certain price point. The mobile device may have scanned the QR code identified that the boxed items were below the price point therefore satisfying a user preference and taken an action to alert the user . The field of view of the mobile device may be fixed or adjustable and may be made narrower or wider than illustrated. In some embodiments particularly in those embodiments including audio or RF scanning the field of view may be limited only by the range of communication.

As illustrated in the shop fronts may contain various advertisements information and or promotions visually available to the user such as a discount on camera lenses cheese cars and clothes . Each shop front advertisement product promotion or information piece may also include non human readable data in the form of an image tag an audio tag and or an RF tag. The mobile device may continuously and or automatically scan the shop fronts for such tags. The mobile device or a computing device in communication with the mobile device may identify those tags that satisfy one or more user preferences. It may be useful to decrypt the tags and or verify that the scanned or identified tags are authentic.

Once a tag has been identified that satisfies one or more user preferences the computing device may perform an action. The action taken may be depend on the user preferences the identified tag a third party s instructions and or the user s instructions. Any of the various functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be integrated within or performed by the mobile device and some of the functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be performed remotely by a remote computing device in communication with the mobile device .

As previously described illustrates a mobile device integrated into the hat of the user configured to continuously and or automatically scan the shop front environment for RF tags. In the illustrated embodiments each shop front may include an RFID tag such as tags and . Again the range of the mobile device may be selectively or technologically limited as illustrated by the building shown in dashed lines that cannot be scanned.

In the illustrated embodiment as a user turns the pages of the magazine the mobile device may continuously and or automatically scan each page for image tags. A computing device either remote or integrated within the mobile device may identify tags that satisfy one or more user preferences. If a tag is identified that satisfies one or more user preferences then the computing device may perform a responsive action. For example the mobile device may audibly visually vibrationally haptically or otherwise provide an alert to the user. Any of the various functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be integrated within or performed by the mobile device and some of the functions operations structures and modules described in conjunction with may be performed remotely by a remote computing device.

As an example the user preferences may include advertisements for certain products at or below a certain price point. Accordingly rather than read each advertisement within the magazine a user may quickly turn the pages of the magazine and allow the mobile device to identify any tags such as the QR code that satisfy one or more user preferences. As previously described the mobile device may then perform an action in response to the identified tag such as alerting the user storing the information obtained from the identified tag obtaining and or storing supplemental information obtained from the identified tag and or other action.

In other embodiments the advertisement may include image data that is only readable using polarization dependent imaging or spectrally limited imaging. For instance the image data may only appear with horizontal or other polarization. The total image may include imagery that is either unpolarized or includes both horizontal and vertical polarizations. Accordingly a user may not notice the insignificant portion of the image that is polarized while the mobile device may scan only that information that is polarized i.e. horizontal vertical left hand circular or right hand circular .

Similarly a tag may be encoded within an image using spectrally limited imaging. In such embodiments the image visible to a user may include image data that is within a narrow range of the visible spectrum. The content within the narrow bandwidth may not obstruct or otherwise impair the user s view of the image while the mobile device may be adapted to scan for tags within the narrow bandwidth. For instance an image may include imagery between approximately 400 nanometers and 700 nanometers. The image data for a tag may be encoded between 430 nanometers and 450 nanometers. The relatively insignificant portion of the bandwidth used for the tag may be unnoticeable to a user while the mobile device may be adapted to ignore anything outside of the relatively narrow bandwidth.

Tags associated with the advertisement may provide the same information available to the user provide related information and or contain or provide a link to supplemental content. The supplemental content may be in the form of informational data related to the tag a filename a web address an IP address a MAC address an email address a social network handle or address a messaging address a phone number a telephone address a VoIP address a fax number a search term a keyword and or other supplemental content. Supplemental content obtained from an identified tag may be directly provided to a user stored for eventual retrieval aggregated with related supplemental content or tags and or provided to the user in the aggregate with other related supplemental content or tags.

This disclosure has been made with reference to various exemplary embodiments including the best mode. However those skilled in the art will recognize that changes and modifications may be made to the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example various operational steps as well as components for carrying out operational steps may be implemented in alternate ways depending upon the particular application or in consideration of any number of cost functions associated with the operation of the system e.g. one or more of the steps may be deleted modified or combined with other steps.

Additionally as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art principles of the present disclosure may be reflected in a computer program product on a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. Any tangible non transitory computer readable storage medium may be utilized including magnetic storage devices hard disks floppy disks and the like optical storage devices CD ROMs DVDs Blu Ray discs and the like flash memory and or the like. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create a means for implementing the functions specified. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including implementing means that implement the function specified. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified.

While the principles of this disclosure have been shown in various embodiments many modifications of structure arrangements proportions elements materials and components which are particularly adapted for a specific environment and operating requirements may be used without departing from the principles and scope of this disclosure. These and other changes or modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure.

The foregoing specification has been described with reference to various embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly this disclosure is to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope thereof. Likewise benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to various embodiments. However benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical a required or an essential feature or element. As used herein the terms comprises comprising and any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process a method an article or an apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method system article or apparatus. Also as used herein the terms coupled coupling and any other variation thereof are intended to cover a physical connection an electrical connection a magnetic connection an optical connection a communicative connection a functional connection and or any other connection.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

