---

title: Course-based place searching
abstract: Course-based place searching systems and methods are described. In an embodiment, a system for performing a course-based place search may include a navigation device, a processing device, and a display. The navigation device may be configured to track a location and a course of the vehicle. The processing device may be communicatively coupled to the navigation device and may be configured to request places from a resource based at least in part on the location of the vehicle and the search criterion and to return a first one or more places received from the resource to an occupant of the vehicle. The first one or more places may be based at least in part on the course of the vehicle. The display may be communicatively coupled to the processing device. The first one or more places may be displayed on the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09410813&OS=09410813&RS=09410813
owner: CLOUDCAR, INC.
number: 09410813
owner_city: East Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150324
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 735 902 filed Jan. 7 2013 and issued Apr. 7 2015 as U.S. Pat. No. 9 002 567 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The embodiments discussed herein relate to systems and methods of performing a course based place search.

Many vehicles coming off production lines today include built in electronic devices such as built in navigation systems. In addition to providing navigation instructions these built in navigation systems are often capable of performing location based searching. Built in navigation systems are relatively expensive and often include software and or hardware that is already outdated by the time the vehicle is sold to the consumer who will use the vehicle.

Many consumers own mobile electronic devices mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets that are commonly replaced every one or two years. One result of the relatively short lifespan of such mobile devices is that they often provide consumers with the latest or almost the latest and most up to date software and or hardware. Such mobile devices can operate a huge variety of apps can access online content can often interface with mobile telephone networks and are highly flexible. These mobile devices are often capable of providing navigation instructions and performing location based searching.

Some functionality provided by mobile devices such as navigation apps may compete with the built in electronics provided in vehicles. In many cases the software and or hardware of mobile devices is newer and offers better performance than the software and or hardware of a vehicle. As a result consumers may opt to use the mobile devices while driving for navigation instructions and to perform location based searching that might also be provided by the vehicle. With equivalent and often superior functionality available via mobile devices many consumers may opt to purchase and or lease vehicles without built in navigation systems.

However the use of electronic devices while operating a vehicle can lead to operator distractions and potentially dangerous operating conditions. This sort of distracted driving has caused accidents and many states now have laws forbidding or restricting interaction with mobile devices while driving. Furthermore the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration NHSTA has provided guidelines to automakers to ensure that new cars discourage distracted driving. The focus of the NHSTA guidelines is to encourage drivers to keep their eyes on the road rather than being distracted with the interface of a mobile device or vehicular device. To that end some location based searching functionality of electronic devices may potentially be disabled now and possibly in a more widespread manner in the future. The NHSTA guidelines are often in direct conflict with drivers desired behavior.

For example an operator or other occupant of a vehicle may often wish to perform location based searching. Conventional location based searching is often performed by providing a location and search criteria to a location based search engine. The search engine generally returns places related to the search criteria that are located within an area centered on the provided location. Often a list of places is provided and may be sorted by proximity to the provided location associated ratings relevance to the search criteria or the like. Generally the returned places are reviewed by the searcher who identifies one or more of the returned places as an acceptable result. Identifying an acceptable place from the search often requires the searcher to review multiple returned places. For example the searcher might pan and or zoom a view of a map containing representations of the places. The map might show the relative locations of the places while detailed information about the places might be included.

This form of location based searching may work well in situations where a person performing the search is stationary and or is not traveling to a particular destination. However where the search is performed on the move and or when traveling to a particular destination many of the places provided by such a search may be in a direction not in the direction of travel and or not in the direction of the destination.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one exemplary technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

Some embodiments described herein generally relate to systems and methods of performing a course based place search. The systems and methods may allow an occupant of a vehicle to perform a location based search and receive results based at least in part on the vehicle s course. For example the systems and methods may return places based on a heading predicted route proposed route and or destination of the vehicle. The returned places may be associated with locations that may be reached without a significant deviation from the vehicle s course. As a result places that can only be reached with a significant deviation from the vehicle s course may be omitted from course based search results. By not presenting these places to the occupants of the vehicle the places returned in response to course based searches may be more relevant than conventional location based searches. A course based search can thus allow an occupant of a vehicle to more safely and conveniently search for and identify acceptable places because the returned places are generally more relevant to the occupants.

This Summary introduces a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential characteristics of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In an example embodiment a system for performing a course based place search is described. The system includes a navigation device a processing device and a display. The navigation device is configured to track a location of the vehicle and a course of the vehicle. The processing device is communicatively coupled to the navigation device and is configured to request places from a resource based at least in part on the location of the vehicle and a search criterion and to return a first one or more places received from the resource to an occupant of the vehicle. The first one or more places returned are based at least in part on the course of the vehicle. The display is communicatively coupled to the processing device. The first one or more places are displayed on the display.

In another example embodiment a method of performing a course based place search is described. The method includes tracking a location of the vehicle and a course of the vehicle. The method also includes requesting places from a resource based at least in part on the location of the vehicle and a search criterion. The method further includes returning a first one or more places received from the resource to an occupant of the vehicle. The first one or more places returned are based at least in part on the course of the vehicle.

In yet another example embodiment a computer readable medium is described. The computer readable medium has computer instructions stored thereon that are executable by a processor to perform operations. The operations include tracking a location of the vehicle and a course of the vehicle. The operations also include requesting places from a resource based at least in part on the location of the vehicle and a search criterion. The operations further include returning a first one or more places received from the resource to an occupant of the vehicle. The first one or more places returned are based at least in part on the course of the vehicle.

Additional features and advantages will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the embodiments. The features and advantages of the embodiments will be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims. These and other features will become more fully apparent from the following description and claims or may be learned by the practice of the embodiments as set forth hereinafter.

Operators and or passengers occupants of a vehicle may wish to identify potential places to eat to buy fuel and or to undertake some other desired activity. Location based searching may allow the occupants to search places located near the vehicle s location that meet a selected search criteria. In the absence of the systems and methods described herein the location based search may return places located in an area generally centered on the vehicle location. Many of the places returned by the location based search may not be very relevant to the occupants as the occupants may be unlikely to select the places. For example many of the places may require significant backtracking and or a significant detour to reach. Other places may not include necessary services may not be preferred by the occupants or the like. Including these less relevant places with the returned places may make identifying a relevant and acceptable place a cumbersome and time consuming process. By encouraging the occupants to expend extra attention to identify an acceptable place including less relevant places in the results of a search may increase the risk of distracted driving if the location based search is made in a moving vehicle. In the absence of the embodiments described herein an occupant of a vehicle wishing to make a location based search may be forced to decide whether to risk distracted driving to do so.

The methods and systems described herein enable performance of course based searches. Course based searching may reduce and possibly eliminate the risk of distracted driving when compared to conventional location based searching. Basing the places returned at least in part on the course of a vehicle may provide an occupant of the vehicle with relevant results from which the occupant may identify an acceptable place. The places returned may be further based at least in part on preferences of the occupant of the vehicle information from the vehicle or detailed information about the places which may further increase the relevance of the places returned to the occupant.

In view of the foregoing some embodiments described herein allow a course based search to return relevant places to an occupant of a vehicle.

Reference will now be made to the figures wherein like structures will be provided with like reference designations. The drawings are diagrammatic and schematic representations of exemplary embodiments and accordingly are not limiting of the scope of the claimed subject matter nor are the drawings necessarily drawn to scale.

The vehicle and or the mobile device may allow course based searches to be performed. As used herein the term course broadly applies to any information that describes an actual and or projected change in the vehicle location . For example a vehicle s course may include but is not limited to a heading speed destination predicted route and or proposed route. Course based searching may reduce and possibly eliminate the risk of distracted driving when compared to conventional location based searching. The places returned in response to a course based search may be based at least in part on the course of the vehicle . Basing the places returned at least in part on the course of the vehicle may provide an occupant not shown of the vehicle with relevant results from which the occupant may identify an acceptable place. As used herein the term occupant broadly applies to operators and passengers of a vehicle. The places returned may be further based at least in part on a preference of the occupant a status of the vehicle and or detailed information about the places which may further increase the relevance of the places returned to the occupant.

In some embodiments a search criterion of the course based search may relate to energy for replacing energy reserves of the vehicle . For example the search criteria may specify energy dispensing stations that offer a particular type of energy such as but not limited to gasoline diesel fuel liquefied petroleum gas LPG compressed natural gas CNG liquefied natural gas LNG methanol ethanol biodiesel hydrogen electricity and or other types of energy for powering a vehicle . Embodiments may include determining an expected range of the vehicle based on the energy reserves of the vehicle and returning energy dispensing stations that are within the expected range of the vehicle further increasing the relevance of the results returned in such course based searches. Some embodiments may improve the relevance of the returned results further by retrieving information related to the energy costs of each of the energy dispensing stations and returning the least expensive energy dispensing stations for replenishing the vehicle s energy reserves.

The vehicle may generally include one or more devices to assist with operation of the vehicle to improve the vehicle s safety to entertain occupants of the vehicle to improve the comfort of occupants or the like. For example the devices can include an audio system for audibly providing occupants with entertainment and other information. The devices can also include one or more displays for visually providing occupants with information and potentially with entertainment. The displays may include instrument panels head unit displays and other display devices that may be found in both new and used vehicles.

A voice recognition system may also be included as one of the devices included with the vehicle . The voice recognition system may include a microphone for detecting a spoken command from an occupant. An input device such as a switch button touch surface or the like may be included in the voice recognition system and or the devices to receive input effective to instruct the voice recognition system to listen for a spoken command.

The devices may include a navigation system for determining a location of the vehicle for providing occupants with directions to a destination or the like. The navigation system generally relies on satellite navigation systems such as the global positioning system GPS or the global navigation satellite system GLONASS . However other satellite navigation systems can be used as can terrestrial navigation systems such as the long range navigation LORAN system Wi Fi based positioning system WPS and the like. The navigation system may provide information to occupants via one or more displays and or an audio system. In many cases built in navigation systems may include software and or hardware that is already outdated by the time the vehicle is sold to the consumer who will use the vehicle .

The vehicle may communicate with a mobile device . The mobile device may be virtually any communication enabled mobile device including but not limited to a portable media device a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer or other communication enabled mobile device. The mobile device may include a communication interface such as an IEEE 802.11 interface a Bluetooth interface a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS interface a Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A interface or other mobile cellular interface. The mobile device may wirelessly communicate data voice communication SMS messages or the like over the network . In some embodiments the devices may communicate over the network via the mobile device .

Many consumers replace their mobile device much more often than they replace their vehicle . The relatively short lifespan of such mobile devices often provides consumers with access to the latest or almost the latest and most up to date software and or hardware through their mobile device . Such mobile devices may generally operate a variety of apps access online content and can often interface with radio access networks.

In some embodiments the vehicle may be configured to wirelessly communicate with the mobile device . Alternately or additionally the vehicle and the mobile device may communicate over a wired connection. In some embodiments communication between the vehicle and the mobile device may substantially occur as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 664 212 entitled AUTOMOBILE DATA ABSTRACTION AND COMMUNICATION and filed Oct. 30 2012 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The mobile device may communicate with the devices and the vehicle and may project content onto one or more displays of the vehicle . In some embodiments projection of content may substantially occur as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 664 204 entitled PROJECTION OF CONTENT TO EXTERNAL DISPLAY DEVICES and filed Oct. 30 2012 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The system may additionally include one or more vehicular display devices and . More particularly the vehicular display devices and respectively include a head unit and an instrument panel in the illustrated embodiment. The vehicular display devices and are generally vehicular display devices that can be found in new and used vehicles. The principles and operation of the embodiments of the invention described herein can be adapted for use with existing vehicular display devices and generally do not require the cooperation of the vehicle manufacturer. In some cases the existing vehicular display devices and can be equipped or retrofitted with a wireless interface or other communication device as further described herein to facilitate communication with mobile device . In other cases the vehicular display devices and included in new vehicles are adapted by the manufacturer to facilitate the communication.

The head unit includes a display A configured to display content such as video content from an integrated DVD player radio or other music information weather or traffic information etc. For example the display A may be associated with an existing built in electronics system that has certain functionality which is often limited or outdated in the absence of the systems described herein. The head unit additionally includes an input interface which may include any input device configured to receive user input effective to operate the head unit and potentially other aspects of the vehicle in which the head unit is installed. For example the input interface of the head unit includes one or more buttons B C and or the display A itself when implemented as a touchscreen display. In some embodiments when the mobile device is projecting content to the head unit user input provided via the input interface of the head unit is used to control operation of the mobile device .

The instrument panel includes at least one display area A in which content may be displayed. Accordingly the mobile device may project content to the instrument panel for display in all or a portion of the display area A. Alternately or additionally the instrument panel may further include one or more fixed instruments B and C. For example the fixed instruments B and C may include a speedometer a fuel gauge a temperature gauge an RPM gauge or the like or any combination thereof. Although not shown in some embodiments the instrument panel may include an input interface such as has been described with respect to the head unit .

The system may further include a steering wheel of the vehicle. In some embodiments the steering wheel includes an input interface such as has been described above with respect to the head unit . The input interface of the steering wheel may include one or more buttons A and B. In some embodiments the buttons A and B are used for one or more of prompting the vehicle to listen for a voice command speaker volume control channel selection track selection or for other functionality.

In some embodiments the system further includes an intra vehicle bus to which the head unit the instrument panel and or the steering wheel are communicatively coupled. The intra vehicle bus may be configured to allow microcontrollers such as may be implemented in each of the head unit the instrument panel and the steering wheel to communicate with each other. The intra vehicle bus may include a controller area network CAN bus or any bus used in a vehicle for communicating signals between components including standards such as media oriented systems transport MOST local interconnect network LIN Inter Integrated Circuit IC Ethernet or the like.

An access node may be provided to allow access to the intra vehicle bus . For example an intra vehicle bus interface IVBI device may be communicatively coupled to the access node to read data from and or write data to the intra vehicle bus . In an example embodiment the access node may include an on board diagnostics OBD connector compliant with a particular OBD interface such as the OBD I OBD 1.5 or OBD II interfaces. The IVBI device may be configured to communicate with the mobile device wirelessly or via a hardwired connection.

In some embodiments user input entered via the buttons A and B of the steering wheel and or entered via other input interfaces of the vehicle may be used to control operation of the mobile device . For example data representing the user input may be communicated on the intra vehicle bus read by the IVBI device and communicated by the IVBI device to the mobile device either wirelessly or via a hardwired connection.

The system tracks a location of the vehicle. In some embodiments the location of the vehicle is tracked by the mobile device . Alternately or additionally the location of the vehicle may be tracked by a navigation device of the vehicle. The system may track the location of the vehicle continuously or intermittently.

The system also tracks a course of the vehicle. The course of the vehicle may be based on any information that describes an actual and or projected change in a vehicle s location. The system may track a heading of the vehicle via a compass or other device of the vehicle or the mobile phone . The system may also track speeds of the vehicle including average speeds instantaneous speeds and the like. The system may receive the vehicle s speed via the intra vehicle bus or via a navigation device of the mobile phone . The course may include predicted routes proposed routes and the like. In tracking the vehicle s course the system may also consider speed limit weather and or traffic information gathered from one or more resources such as the Internet.

In some embodiments the course may include a driving profile of an operator of the vehicle. The driving profile may include information about driving habits and preferences of the operator that may be used in projecting the vehicle s course. The system may further contain information about a destination of the vehicle. The destination may be input from an occupant inferred by the system based on an occupant s past and or current behavior or the like. In some embodiments the course may be based on a route the system projects the vehicle is likely to take. The course may also be based on a proposed route provided to the occupants of the vehicle. The proposed route may include navigation instructions for traveling to a destination. Information describing the course of the vehicle is not limited to the information explicitly disclosed herein the course may include other information describing actual or projected changes in the vehicle s location.

The system may request places from a resource based on the location of the vehicle and a search criterion. In some embodiments the system may perform the request as a location based search via the mobile phone . The resource may include a network resource such as a location based search engine such as Google Maps Yelp Bing Maps or the like. The system may perform the request via an application programming interface API of the location based search engines. The system may receive multiple places from the resource in response to the request. In some embodiments these multiple places may be located in an area centered on the vehicle s location and may include results less relevant to the occupant. The system may return one or more of the received places to an occupant of the vehicle based on the course of the vehicle such that the returned places are more relevant to the occupant. In some embodiments an application on the mobile device may identify which of the multiple received places to return to the occupants.

The system may determine which of the multiple places to return to the occupants based on the course of the vehicle. In some embodiments the system may return one or more places associated with locations that require the vehicle to deviate from the course by less than an acceptable threshold to reach. Places received from the resource that require the vehicle to deviate from the course by more than the acceptable threshold may not be returned to the occupant.

The threshold may be set by an occupant or by the system . In some embodiments the acceptable threshold may be generated and or changed by the system . The threshold may be defined as a distance a time or some other measurement. For example the system may consider any deviation from the course that takes less than five minutes of travel time to be within an acceptable threshold. Similarly the system may consider any deviation from the course that adds less than one mile to the vehicle s course to be within an acceptable threshold. Alternately or additionally thresholds may be defined as a portion of a trip length. For example the system may consider any deviation from the course that is projected to increase the travel time or travel distance by less than five percent to be within an acceptable threshold.

In some embodiments the system may consider the preferences of the occupant in determining an acceptable threshold. The system may monitor the historical actions of the occupant including past deviations from past trips to determine a threshold acceptable to the particular occupant. For example as the system performs course based place searches as described herein over a period of time the system may consider the places actually chosen by the occupant. If the occupant rarely chooses places at or near the threshold the acceptable threshold may be lessened such that places requiring less deviation from the course of the vehicle are returned in future course based searches. Conversely if the occupant often chooses places at or near the threshold the acceptable threshold may be increased such that places requiring more deviation from the course of the vehicle are returned in future course based searches.

The occupant s preferences may be monitored even when the occupant is not performing course based searches. For example the system may use a navigation device to monitor the places the occupant frequents to determine the occupant s brand preferences food preferences route preferences and the like.

The returned places may be associated with locations located in a direction of the heading of the vehicle or in a direction that includes an acceptable deviation from the heading of the vehicle. Places associated with locations requiring the vehicle to deviate from the heading of the vehicle by more than an acceptable threshold to reach are not returned. Similarly the returned places may be associated with locations located along a predicted route or with locations requiring the vehicle to deviate from the proposed route by an acceptable threshold to reach. Places associated with locations requiring the vehicle to deviate from the predicted route by more than an acceptable threshold to reach are not returned.

In some embodiments the course may include a proposed route of the vehicle. For example the course may include a proposed route presented to the occupant to direct the occupant to a destination. The returned places may be associated with locations located along the proposed route or locations requiring the vehicle to deviate from the proposed route by less than an acceptable threshold to reach. Places associated with locations requiring the vehicle to deviate from the proposed route by more than the acceptable threshold are not returned.

In some embodiments determining the required deviation from a course for each place may be accomplished by comparing projected routes to and from each place. For example if the course includes a proposed route to a destination the deviation may be determined for each place by acquiring an alternate route to the destination by way of each place and comparing the alternate routes to the proposed route. The alternate routes may be requested from a resource such as a navigation based search engine such as Google Maps or Bing Maps. However other methods of determining the required deviation may be used.

The returned places may be further based on characteristics of the places a status of the vehicle and or the preferences of an occupant. In some instances places may not be returned if the occupant is unlikely to select the places and or there are a suitable number of alternative places. For example if the occupant never patronizes a particular brand of restaurant that has been returned to the occupant the system may stop returning that particular brand of restaurant. Optionally the system may return places that have received suitable reviews are in a particular price range or the like. For example the system may receive pricing information and reviews as part of the location based search or may request reviews from a suitable resource such as Yelp Citysearch or the like.

In some embodiments a preference of an occupant may include a time the occupant prefers to visit a place. The time the occupant prefers to visit a place may be identified automatically or may be identified by the occupant. For example the occupant may prompt the system by voice activation or another input to find good Chinese food an hour away. In response the system may return places associated with Chinese restaurants located near a location the vehicle is expected to be in one hour. The expected location of the vehicle may be based on the course of the vehicle.

The system may also return places based on a status of the vehicle. The status of the vehicle may be requested by the mobile device through the IVBI device . In some instances the status of the vehicle may cause the system to automatically request places from a resource and return one or more of the received places to the occupant of the vehicle. For example if the vehicle senses a problem with the engine that requires attention often indicated by a check engine light on the vehicle display the system may automatically request places associated with vehicle repair. The system may return vehicle repair places that might fix the sensed problem on the particular make of vehicle. The vehicle repair places may be returned based on the course of the vehicle as described herein but in some instances the closest vehicle repair places may be returned regardless of course if the sensed problem requires urgent attention.

The system may return places associated with replacing energy reserves of the vehicle. The energy reserves of the vehicle may include gasoline diesel fuel LPG CNG LNG methanol ethanol biodiesel hydrogen electricity and or other energy sources for powering the vehicle. In some embodiments the system may retrieve information via the intra vehicle bus identifying the energy source s the vehicle employs. In requesting and or returning places associated with energy dispensing stations the system may use the information about the energy source s to return relevant results.

In some embodiments the system may retrieve information about the energy reserves of the vehicle via the intra vehicle bus . The system may determine an expected range of the vehicle based on the energy reserves of the vehicle the projected speeds of the vehicle projected elevation changes weather traffic and the like. The system may automatically request places associated with energy dispensing stations as the energy reserves of the vehicle are consumed. In some embodiments the system may automatically return energy dispensing stations within the expected range of the vehicle if the energy reserves are close to being depleted. Alternately or additionally the system may issue an alert if the vehicle is approaching a final energy dispensing station within the vehicle s expected range.

Optionally the system may request the cost associated with the desired energy source at the various energy dispensing stations via a resource such as a website listing the gasoline prices of gasoline dispensing stations. The system may then return the energy dispensing stations based on the cost of purchasing energy from the stations. For example if multiple stations are located on the vehicle s route the system may return the stations with the lowest cost. The system may also selectively return membership based energy dispensing stations such as those available through Costco Wholesale and Sam s Club based on whether the occupant is a member. In some embodiments if the vehicle requires an electricity dispensing station charging station to replenish the vehicle s energy reserves the system may check charging station availability and or reserve a charging station via a resource such as the Internet.

The system may return the one or more places to the occupant by displaying information about the places on the display A and or A. Alternately or additionally information about the places may be returned audibly through a sound system of the vehicle. When displayed the one or more places may be displayed on a map in a list in tiles or some other organized manner that may be easily reviewed by an occupant of the vehicle. In some embodiments occupants may review the places by navigating through information about the returned places using buttons B C A and B displays A and A when the displays A and A are implemented as touchscreens and voice commands. Returning the places may include sorting the places by some criteria. For example the places may be sorted according to a customer review rating price distance or the like. In some embodiments the places may be sorted according to the length of the detour required to reach each place. Alternately or additionally the places may be sorted based on a best guess by the system of what place the occupants will select.

The mobile device includes a processing device and a computer readable storage medium hereinafter storage medium . The processing device is configured to execute computer instructions stored on the storage medium to perform one or more of the operations described herein such as operations associated with performing a course based search. Although not illustrated in the processing device the storage medium and or the other components of the mobile device may be communicatively coupled via a communication bus. The communication bus may include but is not limited to a memory bus a storage interface bus a bus interface controller an interface bus or the like or any combination thereof.

The storage medium may include but is not limited to a magnetic disk a flexible disk a hard disk an optical disk such as a compact disk CD or DVD and a solid state drive SSD to name a few. Another example of a computer readable storage medium that may be included in the mobile device may include a system memory not shown . Various non limiting examples of system memory include volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM flash memory or the like or any combination thereof.

One or more applications M collectively applications may be executed by the mobile device and more particularly by the processing device . For example the applications may be stored in the storage medium and executed by the processing device to become corresponding instantiated applications that generate or render information or content locally or communicate information or content with an external information or content resource.

The mobile device may be controlled via a UI of the mobile device . Additionally the mobile device may be configured to output content to a built in display .

The mobile device includes one or more antennas configured for wireless communication. The antennas may be configured to communicate with the vehicular device . For example the antennas may permit communication through a communication channel . In some embodiments the communication channel includes the IVBI device the access node and the intra vehicle bus of . The antennas also allow the mobile device to communicate over a wireless network generally corresponding to the network of . The antennas may allow the mobile device to request places from a network resource.

The mobile device includes a navigation device . The navigation device may include hardware and or software necessary to determine a location and or course of the mobile device . For example the navigation device may include hardware and or software to determine a location and or course from GPS GLONASS LORAN WPS and the like. The navigation device may include other devices related to determining a location and or course of the mobile phone such as a compass gyroscope accelerometer and the like.

The vehicular device includes a processing device and a computer readable storage medium hereinafter storage medium . The processing device is configured to execute computer instructions stored on the storage medium to perform one or more of the operations described herein such as operations associated with performing a course based search. Although not illustrated in the processing device the storage medium and or the other components of the vehicular device may be communicatively coupled via a communication bus. The communication bus may include but is not limited to a memory bus a storage interface bus a bus interface controller an interface bus or the like or any combination thereof.

The vehicular device may further include a display generally corresponding to one or more of the displays A and A of . The vehicular device may be controlled via a UI of the vehicular device . Additionally the vehicular device may be configured to output content to a built in display . In some embodiments the UI of the vehicular device is used to control the mobile device and the mobile device outputs content to the display of the vehicular device .

Optionally the vehicular device may include a navigation device . The navigation device may include hardware and or software necessary to determine a location and or course of the vehicular device . For example the navigation device may include hardware and or software to determine a location and or course from GPS GLONASS LORAN WPS and the like. The navigation device may include other devices related to determining a location and or course of the vehicular device such as a compass gyroscope accelerometer and the like.

As a result of a course based search the map may include place markers representing places received from a location based search that are located along a predicted route based on the heading of the vehicle or requiring deviation from the predicted route by an acceptable threshold to reach as indicated by the place markers with solid fill. Other places may be received from the location based search but are omitted from being displayed on the map as indicated by the hatched place markers A C hereinafter collectively omitted places .

The omitted places may be omitted for any of a variety of reasons. For example the omitted places C may be omitted because they require the vehicle to deviate from the predicted route by more than an acceptable threshold to reach. Alternately or additionally the omitted places A may be omitted because they do not satisfy the occupant s preferences for example. Alternately or additionally the omitted place B may be omitted because the distance to the omitted place B is beyond an expected range of the vehicle based on the energy reserves of the vehicle . Optionally the map may include a marker indicating the location at which the vehicle is projected to deplete its existing energy reserves.

Alternately or additionally the marker may include a circle centered on the vehicle representing the estimated range of the vehicle in all directions. In some embodiments all places falling outside of the estimated range circle may be omitted from the map . For example if the vehicle is low on energy reserves and no destination is set an estimated range circle may automatically be added to the map . The estimated range circle may shrink as the energy reserves of the vehicle are consumed and the estimated range decreases.

In block places are requested from a resource based at least in part on the location of the vehicle and a search criterion.

In block a first one or more of places received from the resource are returned to an occupant of the vehicle. The first one or more places returned are based at least in part on the course of the vehicle. In some embodiments the first one or more places may be returned such that a second one or more places received from the resource are not returned. The second one or more places may require the vehicle to deviate from the course by more than an acceptable threshold to reach the second one or more places.

In some embodiments the first one or more places returned may be further based at least in part on a preference of the occupant of the vehicle. Alternately or additionally the first one or more places may be further based at least in part on a status of the vehicle or on detailed information about the places received from the resource.

In some embodiments the course may include a heading of the vehicle. The first one or more places may be associated with locations located along a predicted route of the vehicle or locations requiring the vehicle to deviate from the predicted route by an acceptable threshold to reach the first one or more places. The predicted route may be based at least in part on the heading of the vehicle. A second one or more places received from the resource may not be returned. The second one or more places may be associated with locations requiring the vehicle to deviate from the predicted route by more than an acceptable threshold to reach the second one or more places. The second one or more places may be filtered from the returned results by the resource. Alternately the second one or more places may be filtered from the returned results locally e.g. by the system .

In some embodiments the course may include a proposed route of the vehicle. The proposed route may include navigation instructions from the location of the vehicle to a destination. The first one or more places may be associated with locations located along the proposed route of the vehicle or locations requiring the vehicle to deviate from the proposed route by an acceptable threshold to reach the first one or more places. A second one or more places received from the resource may not be returned. The second one or more places may be associated with locations requiring the vehicle to deviate from the proposed route by more than an acceptable threshold to reach the second one or more places.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples and some of the steps and operations may be optional combined into fewer steps and operations or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments.

For instance the search criterion may be related to places providing energy for replenishing energy reserves of the vehicle. In these and other embodiments the method may further include retrieving information about the energy reserves of the vehicle. The first one or more places may be returned based at least in part on an expected range of the vehicle. The expected range of the vehicle may be based at least in part on the energy reserves of the vehicle.

The method may further include tracking energy reserves of the vehicle and automatically returning the first one or more places in response at least in part to the energy reserves of the vehicle.

An embodiment of the method of in the context of the system of will now be described. In an example embodiment the system operates as follows. At the mobile device the application prompts the processing device to request places from a resource via antennas . In requesting the places the processing device provides a search criterion and a location of a vehicle tracked via the navigation device and or . In response to the request the mobile device receives multiple places from the resource via the antennas .

A first one or more of the received places are returned to an occupant of the vehicle by way of the display and or . The mobile device determines which first one or more places are returned to the occupant based at least in part on a course of the vehicle tracked via the navigation device and .

The embodiments described herein may include the use of a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware or software modules as discussed in greater detail below.

Embodiments described herein may be implemented using computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media may include tangible computer readable storage media including random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other storage medium which may be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used herein the term module or component may refer to software objects or routines that execute on the computing system. The different components modules engines and services described herein may be implemented as objects or processes that execute on the computing system e.g. as separate threads . While the system and methods described herein are preferably implemented in software implementations in hardware or a combination of software and hardware are also possible and contemplated. In this description a computing entity may be any computing system as previously defined herein or any module or combination of modulates running on a computing system.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

