---

title: MEMS rotary fuze architecture for out-of-line applications
abstract: An apparatus used in a fuze device, which includes a MEMS micro-rotor. The micro-rotor of the apparatus may move an explosive material, for example, a fuze material, from an out-of-line position to an in-line position. The micro-rotor includes an integral cavity in which the material may be safely loaded and held in the out-of-line position. At an appropriate time, the fuze device of a fully assembled ordnance may be armed. When the apparatus is activated, the micro-rotor carefully moves the explosive material to the in-line position, where the ordnance is armed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09441931&OS=09441931&RS=09441931
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09441931
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150929
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates generally to fuzes and more particularly to a MEMS fuze that utilizes a plurality of thermal V beam actuators to control a micro rotor to move an explosive material from an out of line position to an in line position.

MEMS is an initialism for microelectromechanical system and the abbreviation will be used throughout hereto forth. Fuze systems serve to detonate the main charge secondary of military ordinance of munitions cartridges and shells collectively referred to herein as ordnance at a desired time or location. The fuze plays an essential safety role in preventing accidental detonation of the ordnance and it is instrumental in making the ordinance safe to handle. There are a variety of technologies used in fuze systems. For examples some fuze systems are armed immediately prior to the ordnance being fired and other systems are timed so that the fuze initiates detonation of the secondary charge of the ordnance at a desired time and or location. One common approach to a fuse system is to charge a capacitor and then discharge it at the desired time across a thin wire to create sufficient local heating or a spark to ignite the pinner edgeary explosive which subsequently ignites the main charge. On board electronics or mechanical devices control the timing of the electrical discharge. Fuzes typically incorporate g switches that prevent detonation until the fuze has been exposed to accelerations of a magnitude and time typically only encountered when fired while in a gun barrel. In other systems a pinner edgeary explosive such as silver azide is used to ignite the secondary explosive where there are multiple safe guards to prevent accidental ignition of the secondary explosive even if the pinner edgeary explosive ignites. An example bombs and missiles carried by planes are not fitted onto the ordnance until just before the planes take off thus preventing accidental ignition of the explosive firetrain. A system that utilized a secondary explosive as an igniter where secondary explosive are classified as less sensitive than pinner edgeary explosives would be an even safer system. An example of a secondary explosive is EDF 11. It has been found that EDF 11 may be deposited as a slurry mix and after drying will perform as a secondary explosive. A secondary explosive may be ignited if subjected to a sufficient electrical spark or shock.

The disclosed invention is an apparatus for a fuze device where an apparatus has a MEMS micro rotor which can move an explosive material where the explosive material is a fuze material. In operation the MEMS micro rotor moves the explosive material from an out of line position to an in line position. The micro rotor includes an integral cavity in which the material may be safely loaded and held in the out of line position indefinitely. At an appropriate time the fuze device in fully assembled ordnance may be armed without physically adding the fuze device. The micro rotor of the apparatus is actuated and it securely and reliably moves the explosive material from the out of line position to the in line position where the ordnance is armed.

As will become apparent the invented apparatus has a MEMS architecture immune to inertial effects in any direction. It is capable of higher speed translation and has a smaller footprint. The smaller footprint allows for more fuze devices to be fabricated per wafer run which is the most direct measure of cost per fuze device.

An aspect of the invention is that the micro rotor is a superior alternative to using a traditional spring mass system to translate linearly the explosive material loaded into the integral cavity to a channel cavity. Further the explosive material is in line with the firetrain in large part as the apparatus is based on a MEMS architecture which is broadly a silicon based micro machine. The micro machine has excellent aging characteristics even in a salt water environment.

Another aspect of the invention is that the apparatus may largely be fabricated using processing methods that are used to make other MEMS based devices. A starting fabrication material is a multilayer wafer that includes a silicon device layer a silicon supporting layer and an intervening insulator. The insulator may be etched away without damaging the device layer or the supporting layer. A plurality of the invented apparatus may be replicated utilizing the wafer and then dicing the replications into multiple identical chips of the apparatus.

The invented rotary apparatus is fabricated using MEMS technology which enables very small machines and electrical circuits to be formed. As an order of magnitude a starting material is a silicon oxide insulator SOI wafer that has a silicon device layer an insulator layer and a silicon supporting layer. In the illustrated exemplary embodiment the silicon device layer is about 100 50 microns thick the insulator layer is about 4 3 microns thick and the silicon supporting layer is about 500 200 microns thick.

The embodied apparatus is illustrated in . The silicon device layer the insulator layer and the silicon supporting layer are visible from this elevated perspective view. The apparatus enables small quantities of material for example an explosive material which has the potential as a fuze material EDF 11 to be loaded in a micro rotor having an integral cavity and moved to an armed position that is in line with the firetrain. In the illustration the starting position of the integral cavity is at about three o clock and the in line armed position is at about six o clock as shown in . The about three o clock position is out of line from an underlying through layer channel cavity located in the silicon supporting layer . At three o clock the integral cavity is only 90 degrees from an in line position. In the starting position is at twelve o clock which is 180 degrees from the in line position. So long as the integral cavity is out of line from the underlying through layer channel cavity of the silicon supporting layer the fuze is in a safe state as the explosive cannot move into the through layer channel cavity .

The micro rotor is a perforated disc including an non perorated center inner edge portion with an open center at least one hub spoke a perimeter edge and the integral cavity which is inboard of the perimeter edge

The integral cavity is sized to be sufficiently large to retain the explosive material for example EDF 11. The perforations as shown in are a by product of fabrication to remove the insulator layer from beneath the disc .

The apparatus include a stationary element which is a central axial stator that provides an axle point. The apparatus also includes a spring element connecting the stationary central axial stator to the hub spokes of the micro rotor . The spring element provides elevational support for the micro rotor so that micro rotor does rub against the silicon supporting layer when rotating.

There is a plurality of thermal V beam actuators in the silicon device layer . As shown in the current embodiment there are four actuators where each actuator has a pair of electrical contact pads . The thermal V beam actuators are equidistantly positioned outboard the perimeter edge of the micro rotor . They are electrically actuated by a current at a rate that is in part dependent on a frequency of the current. Actuation produces a frictional force and a tangential force against the perimeter edge of the micro rotor causing the micro rotor and the integral cavity carrying the explosive material toward the channel cavity which is the armed position. The rotation also winds and tensions the spring element which is a coiled spring.

The thermal V beam actuators shown in the figures produce high force and are highly reliability. As shown in when a current is passed through the legs of the actuator there is thermal expansion and consequently a lateral motion of a center shuttle that is attached to a V beam . The V beam motion has a tangential vectorial component and a tip end of the V beam impinges the perimeter edge of the micro rotor. The tangential vectorial component is equal or greater than 30 degrees from perpendicular. As the V beam pushes against the perimeter edge it causes the micro rotor to rotate.

In addition to the actuators the micro rotor may be frictionally held in position by tab tip elements as shown in . The tap tip elements are formed in the silicon device layer which are in close proximity to the perimeter edge .

Thermal actuators are based on strain relief of constrained thermal expansion. When a current is passed through the legs of the actuator the legs closest to the micro rotor do not expand as much as the adjoining parallel legs . The anisotropic expansion results in the strain relieving motion causing the center shuttle to shift toward the micro rotor. When the current is lowered the warmer legs cool and the shuttle moves away from the micro rotor. Thermal actuators come in multiple variations but all rely on anisotropic expansion. A unique property of the illustrated thermal actuator is that movement of the center shuttle is linear. The iterative action of the thermal actuators cause the micro rotor to rotate.

The invented apparatus may be included in a MEMS assemblage. The MEMS architecture is immune to inertial effects in any direction. It is capable of higher speed translation and has a smaller footprint. The smaller footprint allows for more fuze devices to be fabricated per wafer run which is the most direct measure of cost per fuze device.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

