---

title: Systems and methods for delivery of a therapeutic agent
abstract: Methods and apparatus are provided for applying an fragment of a neurotoxin such as the active light chain (LC) of the botulinum toxin (BoNT), such as one of the serotype A, B, C, D, E, F or G botulinum toxins, via permeabilization of targeted cell membranes to enable translocation of the botulinum neurotoxin light chain (BoNT-LC) molecule across the targeted cell membrane to the cell cytosol where a therapeutic response is produced in a mammalian system. The methods and apparatus include use of catheter based delivery systems, non-invasive delivery systems, and transdermal delivery systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09498283&OS=09498283&RS=09498283
owner: The Foundry, LLC
number: 09498283
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150121
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 660 629 filed Oct. 25 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 253 595 filed on Oct. 5 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 559 278 filed Sep. 14 2009 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 459 090 filed Jul. 21 2006 which claims the benefit of provisional application No. 60 702 077 filed Jul. 22 2005 and of provisional application No. 60 747 771 filed on May 19 2006 the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to methods and apparatus for the control of autonomic nerve function comprising delivery via permeabilization of targeted cell membranes a therapeutically effective amount of a portion or fragment of a neurotoxin such as botulinum toxin BoNT the active portion known as the light chain LC to cause a clinical benefit in various regions within the body.

First used for medical purposes over 20 years ago for treatment of blepharospasm and strabismus and other skeletal muscle abnormalities certain neurotoxins have found widespread use in millions of patients worldwide for a variety of conditions.

Controlled injection of neurotoxins has become a common procedure to control skeletal muscle spasms. While the primary application of neurotoxins such as BOTOX commercially sold by Allergan Inc. Irvine Calif. has been focused on cosmetic applications such as treatment of facial wrinkles other uses for the compound are now common. Certain applications include treatment of cervical dystonia tremor headache migraine spasticity torticollis hemifacial spasm blepharospasm meige syndrome spastic dysphonia writers cramp hyperhydrosis hypersalivation bladder dysfunction multiple sclerosis spinal cord injury cystic fibrosis stroke paralysis stuttering and all types of pain.

A frequently used neurotoxin for many applications in the human body is Botulinum Toxin Type A BoNT A a protein produced by the bacterium and sold commercially by Allergan inc. as BOTOX . Botulinum toxin blocks the release of neurotransmitter from the nerves that control the contraction of the target muscles. When used in medical settings small doses of the toxin are injected into the affected muscles and block the release of a chemical acetylcholine that signals the muscle to contract. The toxin thus paralyzes or weakens the injected muscle.

In addition use of neurotoxin for control of the following conditions has been proposed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 063 768 to First and U.S. Pat. No. 5 766 605 to Sanders including rhinorrhea asthma COPD excessive stomach acid secretion spastic colitis otitus media arthritis tensoynovitis lupus connective tissue disease inflammatory bowel disease gout tumors musculo skeletal abnormalities reflex sympathetic dystrophies tendonitis bursitis and peripheral neuropathy. Various other patents contemplate the use of a neurotoxin for additional applications such as neuromuscular disorders U.S. Pat. No. 6 872 397 essential tremor U.S. Pat. No. 6 861 058 pancreatitis U.S. Pat. No. 6 843 998 muscle spasm U.S. Pat. No. 6 841 156 sinus headache U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 434 endocrine disorders U.S. Pat. No. 6 827 931 priapism U.S. Pat. No. 6 776 991 thyroiditis U.S. Pat. No. 6 773 711 cardiovascular disease U.S. Pat. No. 6 767 544 thyroid disorders U.S. Pat. No. 6 740 321 hypocalcemia U.S. Pat. No. 6 649 161 hypercalcemia U.S. Pat. No. 6 447 785 tardive dyskenesia U.S. Pat. No. 6 645 496 fibromyalgia U.S. Pat. No. 6 623 742 Parkinson s Disease U.S. Pat. No. 6 620 415 cerebral palsy U.S. Pat. No. 6 448 231 inner ear disorders U.S. Pat. No. 6 358 926 cancers U.S. Pat. No. 6 139 845 otic disorders U.S. Pat. No. 6 265 379 appetite reduction US2004 0253274 compulsive disorders US2004 0213814 US2004 0213813 uterine disorders US2004 0175399 neuropsychiatric disorders US2003 0211121 dermatological or transdermal applications US2004 00091880 focal epilepsy US2003 0202990 the contents of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The patent authors have further detailed devices and methods for treating asthma with local delivery of the intact botulinum toxin in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 437 882 filed on May 13 2003 the contents of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Due to their extreme toxicity neurotoxins are highly controlled and can have disastrous consequences if not used and controlled properly especially when used in vivo. In addition due to their toxicity the body tends to build up a resistance to their use resulting in lower efficacy the need for increased treatments or the need to discontinue their use all together in certain patients.

In light of the foregoing it would be desirable to provide methods and apparatus for delivering neurotoxins such as botulinum toxins non toxically.

It would also be desirable to provide methods and apparatus for treating various conditions with a neurotoxin such as botulinum toxin fragments via in vivo cell permeabilization.

In would also be desirable to provide a system of devices including catheters trocars needles endoscopes inhalers nebulizers and aerosolizers and other mechanisms to deliver fragmented neurotoxins non toxically.

Further it would be desirable to couple energy delivery devices with the delivery of fragmented neurotoxins to deliver active neurotoxins non toxically including catheter based energy systems and non invasive energy systems.

All publications and patents or patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually so incorporated by reference.

According to the present invention an active fragment sometimes referred to as a catalytic portion of a neurotoxin such as the botulinum neurotoxin BoNT preferably the light chain LC portion of BoNT is delivered to target cells via cell membrane permeabilization. Such delivery provides a non toxic delivery scheme for deriving a variety of clinical benefits. Although botulinum toxins are used broadly for a variety of clinical applications the present invention provides enhanced methods of delivery and use of the isolated active fragments or portions of the toxin. Other neurotoxins which may be used in the methods and systems of the present invention include ricin and its active fragments exotoxin A and its active fragments diphtheria toxin and its active fragments cholera toxin and its active fragments tetanus toxin and its active fragments and the like.

The present invention contemplates application to all of the conditions listed herein collectively defined as therapeutic target conditions and any other conditions for which BoNT and other neurotoxins are known to or can be shown to provide a therapeutic benefit. Certain examples have been detailed below for specific applications but it is within the scope of the present invention that the methods and devices detailed herein have specific applications to many or all of the conditions wherein the intact neurotoxins have shown or proposed to show a therapeutic benefit or effect.

In one aspect of the present invention BoNT LC or other active neurotoxin fragment is delivered with the application of energy to achieve cell membrane permeabilization.

In another aspect of the present invention methods and apparatus are provided for altering autonomic nerve function by utilizing an electric field or ultrasonic energy generated by a pulse or pulses of a designated duration and amplitude to alter tissue at the cellular level via permeabilization of the cell membrane to facilitate the translocation of the BoNT LC or other active neurotoxin fragment to the cell cytosol.

A further aspect of the invention is to provide methods and apparatus for treating or inhibiting a variety of diseases or syndromes that have an underlying neurogenic component by disrupting the neurogenic activities of the promoters or mediators of the disease or syndrome. Such disruption is facilitated by delivering an active fragment of botulinum toxin such as the light chain portion of botulinum toxin serotype A BoNT LC A in the presence of an electric field or ultrasonic energy applied to permeabilize the wall of targeted cell under conditions which induce reversible poration of the cellular membrane and efficient passage of the BoNT LC fragment to the cell cytosol its catalytic environment.

In addition to the methods described thus far the present invention further provides systems for delivering toxins to target cells in a mammalian host. The target cells may be in any of the target regions described above or in any other target region which may benefit from the specific and enhanced delivery of a neurotoxin to cells within the region. Systems comprise catheter or other structure adapted to introduce the toxin or toxin fragment to a region adjacent the target cells. The systems further comprise an energy applicator for applying energy to the target cells under condition which cause poration of the cell membranes to enhance delivery of the toxins and or their active fragments. The systems still further comprise a source of the toxin or active fragments suitable for introduction from the catheter or other delivery structure.

The energy applicator will typically be adapted to selectively apply energy to target cells within the region where the toxin is to be introduced e.g. by focusing energy distribution to the particular target cells or regions which are rich with the target cells. Alternatively the energy applicator may be adapted to apply energy non selectively within the target region where both target cells and other cell types may receive the energy.

In some instances the toxin may comprise an intact toxin but more usually will comprise an active toxin fragment as defined elsewhere in this application. In the exemplary embodiments the active toxin fragment is the light chain fragment of the botulinum toxin BoNT LC . The light chain fragment may be derived from any one of at least botulinum toxins A B C D E F and G.

The energy applicators of the systems of the present invention may be adapted to apply electric energy typically pulses between 1 V and 500 V to the targeted region. The electric energy may be radiofrequency RF energy where the energy may be pulsed for durations between 5 microseconds to 100 milliseconds. Alternatively the electrical energy can be direct current DC alternating current AC or combinations thereof.

In addition to electrical energy the energy applicator may be adapted to deliver ultrasonic energy X ray beam energy microwave energy or any other energy type which can achieve a reversible poration of the target cell walls.

There are at least two general power categories of medical ultrasound waves which may be utilized in the present invention. One category of medical ultrasound wave is high acoustic pressure ultrasound. Another category of medical ultrasound wave is low acoustic pressure ultrasound. Acoustic power is expressed in a variety of ways by those skilled in the art. One method of estimating the acoustic power of an acoustic wave on tissue is the Mechanical Index. The Mechanical Index MI is a standard measure of the acoustic output in an ultrasound system. High acoustic pressure ultrasound systems generally have a Ml greater than 10. Low acoustic pressure systems generally have a MI lower than 5. For example diagnostic ultrasound systems are limited by law to a Mechanical Index not to exceed 1.9. Another measurement used by those skilled in the art is the spatial peak peak average intensity Isppa . The intensity of an ultrasound beam is greater at the center of its cross section than at the periphery. Similarly the intensity varies over a given pulse of ultrasound energy. Isppa is measured at the location where intensity is maximum averaged over the pulse duration. Isppa for high acoustic pressure or high intensity focused ultrasound HIFU applications ranges from approximately 1500 W cmto 9000 W cm. Diagnostic ultrasound equipment for instance will generally have and an Isppa less than 700 W cm. Yet another way in which ultrasound waves can be characterized is by the amplitude of their peak negative pressure. High acoustic pressure or HIFU applications employ waves with peak amplitudes in excess of 10 MPa. Low acoustic pressure ultrasound will generally have peak negative pressures in the range of 0.01 to 5.0 MPa . Diagnostic ultrasound equipment for example will generally have a peak amplitude less than 3.0 MPa. Both high and low acoustic pressure ultrasound systems generally operate within the frequency range of 20 KHz 10.0 MHz Interventional applications such as in blood vessels operate clinically up to about 50 MHz. Also opthalmologic applications up to about 15 MHz. Diagnostic imaging typically uses frequencies of about 3 to about 10 MHz. Physical therapy ultrasound systems generally operate at frequencies of either 1.0 MHz or 3.3 MHz. High acoustic pressure ultrasound or high intensity focused ultrasound has been used for tissue disruption for example for direct tumor destruction. High intensity focused ultrasound using high acoustic pressure ultrasound is most commonly focused at a point in order to concentrate the energy from the generated acoustic waves in a relatively small focus of tissue.

Systems and methods for permeabilization of target tissue cell membranes according to the present invention may employ either high acoustic pressure or low acoustic pressure ultrasound. Some embodiments may preferably employ relatively low acoustic pressure for example the systems described herein where the transducers are mounted on the delivery devices and operate inside the body. Other systems may operate at interim acoustic pressure ranges. For example systems described herein which employ an external ultrasound generator and transducer and which conduct the ultrasound to the target tissues through the use of a wave guide. In these systems losses due to transduction through the wave guide can be compensated for by increasing the input power to the wave guide until adequate power is delivered to the target tissue. Finally some systems described herein may employ focused or partially focused higher pressure ultrasound for example the systems which employ an external mask to conduct the ultrasonic power through the tissues to the target tissues. It should be appreciated that combinations of high and low acoustic pressure systems may also be employed.

The catheter or other structure may be adapted to introduce the toxin to the target cells in a variety of ways. For example catheters may comprise a needle for injecting the toxin optionally a needle which is deployable axially or radially from the catheter body. Alternatively or additionally catheters may be provided with nozzles or other ports for aerosolizing the toxin particularly within regions of the lung as described herein. Still further alternatively or additionally the catheters may comprise balloons or other expandable elements for deflecting an end of the catheter to engage one or more ports on the catheter against the tissue where the toxin fragments are released through the port s . In a specific embodiment the ports may be in the balloon itself where the toxin fragments are released through the ports in the balloon as the balloon is inflated with the medium containing the fragments. With such balloon embodiments the electrodes or other energy transducers will typically be located within the balloon for applying the poration energy to the target tissue. Further optionally the energy applicators may be mounted directly on the catheters for example in the form of acoustic transducers RF or other electrical electrodes or the like. Alternatively the energy applicator may be provided separately from the toxin delivery catheter or other source typically being an external source such as an external high intensity focused ultrasound HIFU source or an external electrode array for delivering radiofrequency or other electroporation energy.

In a further aspect of the invention it may be desirable to provide methods and devices that utilize a non toxic delivery mechanism to target cells to reduce the potential for an immunogenic response to the delivered toxin over time.

In a further aspect of the invention it may be desirable to deliver the therapeutic neurotoxin fragment and energy via a catheter.

In a further aspect of the invention it may be desirable to deliver the therapeutic neurotoxin fragment via an aerosolizer or nebulizer.

In a further aspect of the invention it may be desirable to deliver the therapeutic neurotoxin fragment via an inhaler.

In a further aspect of the invention it may be desirable to deliver the therapeutic neurotoxin fragment and membrane transport energy transdermally.

In a further aspect of the invention it may be desirable to deliver the therapeutic neurotoxin fragment via a catheter or aerosolizer or inhaler and the energy via a catheter placed in the vicinity of the targeted cell.

In a further aspect of the invention it may be desirable to deliver the therapeutic neurotoxin fragment and the membrane transport energy via an implantable generator and drug delivery pump.

In a further aspect of the invention it may be desirable to deliver the therapeutic neurotoxin fragment via a catheter or aerosolizer nebulizer or inhaler and the energy via an external energy source adapted to target the applied energy in the vicinity of the targeted cell.

The present invention is directed to methods and apparatus for targeting the non toxic delivery of a fragment of a neurotoxin while still maintaining the catalytic or toxic effect of the neurotoxin fragment once it is non toxically delivered to its targeted cell. For purposes of this specification the term non toxic non toxically and the like refer to the state of the fragment molecule prior to delivery to a target location. In this description the fragment neurotoxin is intended to retain its toxic effect once delivered to its catalytic environment the intracellular matrix or cytosol of the targeted cell.

Devices and methods of the present invention may be directed to suitable targeted regions such as muscle cells in various regions of the body related to the various therapeutic target conditions or syndromes to be treated as detailed in this specification above. Some particular examples include targeting mucosal and muscular lining of the lung cholinergic cells in the region of tumors myofacial regions vascular smooth muscle cells musculoskeletal regions and the like.

According to the present invention energy fields EF may be applied to target regions in conjunction with the delivery of a fragmented neurotoxin such as BoNT LC to facilitate the transfer of the neurotoxin fragment into the targeted cell non toxically via in vivo target cell permeabilization.

Use of Isolated Light Chain of Botulinum Neurotoxins. Generally the BoNT molecule is synthesized as a single polypeptide chain of 150 kD molecular weight. The neurotoxin is then exposed to enzymes either during cultivation of the organism or subsequent to purification of the toxin wherein specific peptide bonds are cleaved or nicked resulting in the formation of a dichain molecule referred to as BoNT. As shown in dichain neurotoxin is composed of a light chain LC region 50 kD molecular weight linked by disulfide bonds to a heavy chain HC 100 kD molecular weight Kistner A. Habermann E. 1992 345 227 334 . When the light chain is separated from the heavy chains of botulinum toxin neither chain is capable of blocking neurotransmitter release however the light chain alone is capable of blocking acetylcholine release if transported directly into the cell cytosol. Ahnert Hilger G. Bader M. F. Bhakdi S. Gratzl M. 1989 52 1751 1758 and Simpson L. L. 1981 33 155 188. Focusing on the light chain the isolation or separation process essentially renders the light chain non toxic in a general environment while still maintaining its effect or toxicity once it is transported through the target cell membrane.

Over the past several years the separation and purification of the light chain and heavy chain of BoNT has seen significant development activity. In the case of the heavy chain HC researchers are interested in its ability to bond with a target cell and deliver certain molecules into that cell. For example various drug delivery applications have been suggested for example using the HC to bind to tPA so that a patient could inhale the HC bound tPA allowing it to cross the membrane of the lungs and be transported into the bloodstream for anticoagulation. Of particular interest to the present invention are the efforts to isolate and purify the light chain LC of the botulinum molecule. In its isolated and purified form all HC elements are removed rendering the LC incapable of crossing the cell membrane without assistance. Thus the LC is non toxic until delivered to the target cell cytosol by the delivery protocols of the present invention.

Various groups have been active in the area of isolation and purification. For example companies such as Metabiologics a group affiliated with the University of Wisconsin the Center for Applied Microbiology and Research CAMR a division of the UK Health Protection Agency List Biological Laboratories Inc. of California and other research groups throughout the world. Many of these companies provide purified preparations of botulinum neurotoxins from types A and B. List Laboratories in particular provides recombinantly produced light chains from both types A B C D and E.

According to the present invention the therapeutic use and delivery of the light chain only may significantly improve the safety profile of certain applications of therapies utilizing BoNT. BoNT are some of the most lethal toxins known to man. All concerns about migration of the neurotoxin into unintended regions and harm or toxicity to the patient or physician are eliminated by storing handling injecting and metabolizing the light chain only. In the absence of a specific membrane binding technology the LC is completely non toxic. In certain applications such as the treatment of asthma this is of critical import. In using BoNT to treat asthma a large quantity of the purified LC substance may be introduced directly into the lung and then specifically transported to target cells in the exact location and only during the period of use of application of the membrane transport technology such as cell membrane permeabilization by energy. Once the membrane transport technology has been removed turned off or otherwise inactivated the remaining LC which has not been transported into target cells can simply be removed from the body by standard biologic processes for expelling foreign materials e.g. coughing immune system or lymphatic system transport and the like.

In addition therapeutic use of only the LC of the neurotoxin BoNT may reduce the likelihood of the body developing an immunogenic response to the therapy that is seen with delivery of the intact toxin. This could be a major advantage in light of the repetitive application or injection of the toxin that is required to maintain a therapeutic effect.

Non Toxic Membrane Transport Mechanisms. To date the main application of purified or isolated light chain has been the study of its mechanism of action. To further this research literature has reported the use of certain detergent based permeabilization techniques to deliver fragment BoNT Bittner M A DasGupta B R Holz R W. Isolated light chains of botulinum neurotoxins inhibit exocytosis. Studies in digitonin permeabilized chromaffin cells. J Biol Chem 1989 Jun 25 264 18 10354 10360. Further reference to the mechanism of permeability of cell membranes to deliver botulinum toxin are mentioned in U.S. Pat. No. 6 063 768 to First and U.S. Pat. No. 6 632 440 to Quinn Chaddock et al Expression and Purification of Catalytically Active Non Toxic Endopeptidase Derivatives of Clostridium botulinum toxin type A 25 2002 219 228 contemplating the insertion of the light chain of BoNT into a target cell without the heavy chain for purposes of deriving vaccines or in bench top studies of cell mechanisms of action. The contents of these references are expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety. None of the teachings contemplate a delivery of a fragment of neurotoxin using a clinically acceptable permeabilization technique in vivo for therapeutic uses as is contemplated by the present invention.

For purposes of this specification the term poration includes various forms of electroporation such as the use of pulsed electric fields PEFs nanosecond pulsed electric fields nsPEFs ionophoreseis electrophoresis electropermeabilization as well as other energy mediated permeabilization including sonoporation mediated by ultrasonic or other acoustic energy and or combinations thereof to create temporary pores in a targeted cell membrane. Similarly the term electrode or energy source used herein encompasses the use of various types of energy producing devices including x ray radiofrequency RF DC current AC current microwave ultrasound adapted and applied in ranges to produce membrane permeabilization in the targeted cell.

Reversible electroporation first observed in the early 1970 s has been used extensively in medicine and biology to transfer chemicals drugs genes and other molecules into targeted cells for a variety of purposes such as electrochemotherapy gene transfer transdermal drug delivery vaccines and the like.

In general electroporation may be achieved utilizing a device adapted to activate an electrode set or series of electrodes to produce an electric field. Such a field can be generated in a bipolar or monopolar electrode configuration. When applied to cells depending on the duration and strength of the applied pulses this field operates to increase the permeabilization of the cell membrane and reversibly open the cell membrane for a short period of time by causing pores to form in the cell lipid bilayer allowing entry of various therapeutic elements or molecules after which when energy application ceases the pores spontaneously close without killing the cell after a certain time delay. As characterized by Weaver Journal of Cellular Biochemistry 51 426 435 1993 short 1 100 s and longer 1 10 ms pulses have induced electroporation in a variety of cell types. In a single cell model most cells will exhibit electroporation in the range of 1 1.5V applied across the cell membrane potential .

In addition it is known in the art that macromolecules can be made to cross reversibly created pores at voltages of 120V or less applied to cells for durations of 20 microseconds to many milliseconds. For applications of electroporation to cell volumes ranges of 10 V cm to 10 000 V cm and pulse durations ranging from 1 nanosecond to 0.1 seconds can be applied. In one example a relatively narrow pee high voltage 200V pulse can be followed by a longer msec lower voltage pulse 

Certain factors affect how a delivered electric field will affect a targeted cell including cell size cell shape cell orientation with respect to the applied electric field cell temperature distance between cells cell cell separation cell type tissue heterogeneity properties of the cellular membrane and the like.

Various waveforms or shapes of pulses may be applied to achieve electroporation including sinusoidal AC pulses DC pulses square wave pulses exponentially decaying waveforms or other pulse shapes such as combined AC DC pulses or DC shifted RF signals such as those described by Chang in Biophysical Journal October 1989 Volume 56 pgs 641 652 depending on the pulse generator used or the effect desired. The parameters of applied energy may be varied including all or some of the following waveform shape amplitude pulse duration interval between pulses number of pulses combination of waveforms and the like.

A schematic example of the methods of the present invention are shown in in a simplified single cell model. A targeted cell is shown in . Fragmented neurotoxin such as BoNT LC LC is introduced into the vicinity of the targeted cell as depicted in . An energy field EF is applied in accordance with the present invention resulting in the transfer of the BoNT LC through pores P to the intracellular matrix cytosol as shown in . Once this transfer has occurred the release of neurotransmitters of the target cell are then blocked or disrupted and once energy application is discontinued the pores P in the cell membrane recover or close as depicted in .

Of particular interest for application in certain therapeutic target conditions is the developing field of sonoporation. Just as pulses of high voltage electricity can open transient pores in the cell membrane ultrasonic energy can do the same. See for example Guzman et al. Equilibrium Loading of Cells with Macromolecules by Ultrasound Effects of Molecular Sizing and Acoustic Energy 91 7 1693 1701 which examines the viability of ultrasound to deliver molecules of a variety of sizes into target cells. In addition techniques for nebulizing fluids and aqueous drugs are well known in the art and as such devices of the present invention may be adapted to introduce a BoNT LC solution to a target region such as the lung and then effect selective membrane transport of the BoNT LC into the cell using sonoporation.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 601 581 to Babaev hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety describes certain techniques for delivering therapeutic agents using ultrasound for pulmonary delivery via an aerosolizing technique. Further Guzman et al depicts delivery of molecules from a low of 62 Da up to 464 kDa a range of 0.6 18.5 nm radius . Since the LC of the botulinum toxin is in the 50 kDa range the LC would be very susceptible to sonoporetic delivery. Furthermore Guzman et al also showed that for all size ranges tested levels of macromolecule within the cell reached thermodynamic equilibrium with the extracellular environment and the cell uptake also depended on the energy delivered as expressed in J cm2. As such the sonoporetic delivery of LC to the targeted regions may be controlled by adjusting the concentration of the LC exposed to the target region e.g. wall or membrane of the lung the energy delivered to the target region or both.

Catheter Devices. To achieve the goals of the present invention it may be desirable to employ methods and apparatus for achieving cell membrane permeabilization via the application of an energy source either from a catheter located directly in the vicinity of the targeted cells or an externally focused energy system. For purposes of this specification the term catheter may be used to refer to an elongate element hollow or solid flexible or rigid and capable of percutaneous introduction to a body either by itself or through a separately created incision or puncture such as a sheath a trocar a needle a lead. Further descriptions of certain electroporation catheters are described in U.S. Patent Application 60 701 747 filed on Jul. 22 2005 the full disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Referring to electroporation catheter system further comprises a pulse generator such as those generators available from Cytopulse Sciences Inc. Columbia Md. or the Gene Pulser Xcell Bio Rad Inc. or IGEA Carpi Italy electrically connected to a catheter having a proximal end and a distal end and adapted for minimally invasive insertion into the desired region of the body as described herein. The catheter further comprises an electroporation element at a distal end thereof The electroporation element may include for example a first and second electrode and operatively connected to the pulse generator for delivering the desired number duration amplitude and frequency of pulses to affect the targeted cells. These parameters can be modified either by the system or the user depending on the location of the catheter within the body intervening tissues or structures and the timing and duration of reversible cell poration desired. depicts an arrangement of electrodes and that produces an electric field concentrated in a lateral direction from the catheter body whereas shows a device constructed to create a more uniform electric field about the shaft of the catheter body.

Further catheter device and electrode configurations are shown in . depicts an elongate catheter having first and second electrodes and near the distal tip thereof and including a monitoring or stimulation electrode in the vicinity of the active porating electrodes for localizing the treatment area. In some embodiments the monitoring or stimulating function may be performed by one or more of the treatment electrodes. The catheter device may have an optional sharp tip to facilitate percutaneous introduction. Cross sectional view A shows various lumens provided for neurotoxin fragment delivery and other purposes.

Since air is a very effective insulator against transmission of ultrasonic energy the treatment area in the lung may be more precisely controlled by the concentration of the LC mist and the intensity of the ultrasonic energy. A fairly steep drop off in energy delivery would occur as mist concentration diffused effectively protecting areas outside the predetermined radius surrounding the distal end of the delivery device. According to the present invention since no functional neurotoxin exists without an effective membrane transport technology terminating the energy application leaves a harmless mist that is then coughed up if resident in the lungs or otherwise metabolized and excreted by the body.

Any of the catheter devices described herein or described in the contemporaneously filed U.S. Patent Application 60 701 747 previously incorporated by reference in its entirety may be adapted to include an energy delivery element such as those described herein for purposes of providing a membrane transport system for delivery of a fragment of neurotoxin. In addition certain catheter devices and methods such as those set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 964 223 and 6 526 976 to Baran may be adapted to include energy transmission elements capable of producing a porative effect at the cellular level including electrodes ultrasonic elements and the like for treatment in the respiratory tract.

Furthermore any of the foregoing systems may include electrodes or other monitoring systems either located on the treatment catheter or external to the patient to determine the degree of treatment to the region including thermocouple ultrasound transducers fiberoptics sensing or stimulating electrodes. Further it may be desirable to incorporate multiple pairs of electrodes that may be activated in pairs in groups or in a sequential manner in order to maximize the desired shape of the energy field EF while minimizing the field strength requirements.

Implantable Devices. Just as energy may be delivered to a targeted region to facilitate the delivery of fragmented neurotoxin via a catheter system it is also within the scope of the present invention to deliver neurotoxins via an implantable system including a pulse generator lead and drug pump as depicted in . A neuromodulation system may be fully implantable having a pulse generator and a power supply or battery and be operatively connected to a programmable drug delivery pump all housed within a module including a reservoir in which the BoNT LC is stored for delivery over time using the principles of the present invention and technology of the programmable drug pump. A catheter can be adapted to deliver the drug and poration energy to a desired target location in the patient s body.

Examples of useful implantable devices of the present invention arc devices such as those set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 820 589 to Torgerson et al the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference the SynchroMed programmable pump available from Medtronic Inc. Minneapolis Minn. and the neurostimulation units such as the RESTORE or SynergyPlus available from Medtronic Inc. modified if necessary to deliver the desired voltage range for cell membrane permeabilization. Implantation of the neurostimulation device is further described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 847 849 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The non toxic nature of the BoNT in the absence of applied energy makes it possible to contemplate placing a bolus of neurotoxin in the body of a patient in what might otherwise be a toxic amount. This is particularly advantageous since the traditional treatment regime using neurotoxins is typically repeat injections of the toxins every 3 to 6 months and sometimes more frequently depending on the application. Certainly in more chronic conditions such as chronic pain tremor spasm palsy and the like such a fully implantable system may be highly desirable.

Non Invasive Devices. It is within the scope of the invention to deliver either the energy or the therapeutic BoNT LC non invasively or both. For example depicts delivery of the BoNT LC via a catheter placed in the bronchial passageway with the energy field EF delivered from outside the patient in the form of an energy system such as focused ultrasound HIFU stereotactic x ray beams magnetic resonance transmission and the like. As detailed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 626 855 and 6 719 694 to Weng the contents of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety an ultrasound beam can be controlled from outside the patient to focus the ultrasound beam in the desired location and intensity. For use in the present invention it may be desirable to pulse or otherwise attenuate the ultrasound beam to achieve reversible cellular poration at the targeted site. Further due to its non toxic state the BoNT LC may be inhaled by the patient using a standard inhaler device such as those using pressurized aerosols known as metered dose inhalers MDI available from Cardinal Health Somerset N.J. the OPTIHALER available from National Allergy Supply Incorporated Georgia USA or a nebulizer breathing machine such as a Pari DURANEB 3000 portable nebulizer available from Medinfinity Co. Fountain Valley Calif. . In addition certain technology currently under development employing thermal aerosols such as a the STACCATO vaporization technology from Alexza Molecular Delivery Palo Alto Calif. may also be useful within the scope of the present invention. Such devices may be used as depicted in for treating a respiratory ailment such as asthma. Optionally the drug can be delivered with the catheter as shown or with the external sources of .

A combination of these non invasive approaches may also be advantageous as shown in wherein an non invasive inhaler is used to deliver the BoNT LC to the target region such as the lung and the energy is delivered to the target region by the non invasive source such as the focused ultrasound HIFU stereotactic x ray or magnetic resonance transmission as previously described. Due to its non invasive technique this approach may have broad appeal to a large patient population including pediatric use on an outpatient basis in a clinic designated for the treatment of specific respiratory ailments.

In a further aspect of the present invention the fragmented molecule BoNT LC may be delivered intravenously to a patient to achieve a systemic affect. A non invasive energy application device such as those described above may then be targeted at the area of interest to porate the target area thereby locally delivering the BoNT LC to the region sufficiently porated by the applied energy.

Cosmetic and Myofacial Applications. For some conditions it may be desirable to apply the energy field from the surface of the skin to produce a porative effect while injecting the BoNT LC fragment into the targeted facial muscles as shown in . In operation an injection device places the BoNT LC in the muscle to be treated target region and an energy transmission device such as an ultrasonic pen with a single or a series of ultrasonic elements located on the distal end and coupled to an energy transmission system follows along the target region to controllably discharge the BoNT LC fragments to the targeted cells leaving a highly controlled treated region. In some instances for treatments around the eye it may be desirable to limit the penetration of the BoNT LC to dermal or subdermal layers. In these applications BoNT LC may be applied transdermally with ultrasound assistance using techniques similar to those set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 767 402 to Kost the contents of which is expressly incorporated herein in its entirety or through transdermal electroporation.

Intraluminal Devices. It may further be advantageous to position catheters of the present invention through vessels in the body to direct them to various regions to affect neurotransmitters in the cardiovascular system. Intraluminal catheters such as those shown in United States Patent Applications 2001 0044596 to Jaafar and 2002 0198512 to Seward hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety may be used in this application of the present invention.

Treatment Enhancements. In some applications of the present invention it may be desirable to assess the appropriate location for the therapy prior to treatment the therapeutic effect as it is delivered and ultimately the resulting effect. To achieve this once the treatment device is in place adjacent the tissue to be treated the energy generator may be activated causing an energized field to be generated in the target area. Prior to activation of therapeutic voltages and agent stimulation using one or more electrodes may be used to elicit a nerve response or reflex. By observing the nerve response a target treatment location can be confirmed. Similarly once the therapy has been delivered a similar stimulation response may be sought to determine presence or lack of neurogenic response.

In operation effects of electroporation and delivery of a therapeutic dose of BoNT LC may be selective due to the cellular structure and orientation of the targeted cells. For example targeted cells may be preferentially affected due to size avoiding smaller or cross oriented tissue cells.

In a further aspect of the present invention the method of delivering the LC fragment of the BoNT molecule may include the use of a media that contains microspheres or microbubbles such as Optison sold by GE Healthcare www.amershamhealth us.com optison . Delivery of an ultrasound energy or other form of energy for example laser RF thermal energy to the media causes the microspheres to rupture which causes a release of energy toward the targeted region. Such a technique may assist in the desired porative effect by reducing the amount of applied energy required to create poration in the targeted cell membrane. Guzman et al. Ultrasound in Med. Biol. Vol. 29 No. 8 pp. 1211 1222 2003 . In an alternative embodiment the LC fragment may actually be contained or encapsulated within a microsphere to assist in delivery. Such enhancing elements may be delivered prior to energy application or during energy application.

In a further aspect of the present invention it may be advantageous to heat the targeted cells or surrounding tissue by either applying thermal energy directly to the region or directing a heated fluid such as saline to the region through an injection element to aid the cell poration process. Other substances may also be injected to aid in the transmission of the BoNT LC into the intracellular membrane such as amino acids detergents or other agents that may facilitate the catalytic activity of the LC in addition to the applied energy.

Referring now to a balloon catheter may be delivered to a target site in the bronchus B of a lung . Typically the catheter will be delivered through an endoscope E and the shaft of the catheter will comprise at least one lumen for inflating the balloon . The inflation medium may carry the toxin fragment which is released through ports formed in the balloon itself. Thus inflation of the balloon both engages the ports against the wall of the bronchus B and provides the pressure necessary to infuse the neurotoxin fragments into the wall of the bronchus B. Usually energy will be applied from electrodes or other transducers located within the balloon .

Referring now the catheter may also be delivered to a bronchus B of a lung through an endoscope E. Catheter shaft terminates with a delivery port near its distal end. A deflection balloon or other expandable element capable of pressing against the wall of the bronchus B to engage the port against target tissue is provided on a side of the catheter shaft which is opposite to that of the port . Electrodes are provided on either side of the port in order to deliver the poration energy into the target tissue.

Although various illustrative embodiments of the present invention are described above it will be evident to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. It will also be apparent that various changes and modifications may be made herein without departing from the invention. The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

