---

title: Crisis negotiation telephone
abstract: A negotiator makes and receives calls and SMS with a subject through a virtual number. Parties of individuals serving specialized functions are optionally dialed in to monitor the call/receive the SMS each time those communications occur. Alternatively, a member of a particular party can dial in ahead of a call and be placed in a waiting room for the party until the call happens. Different parties may have different functions. For example, one party may be configured such that members can discuss amongst themselves while hearing the negotiator and the subject communicate. Another party may be configured such that communications among the members is disabled such that each member only hears audio from the negotiator and subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609120&OS=09609120&RS=09609120
owner: World Emergency Network—Nevada, Ltd.
number: 09609120
owner_city: Carson City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150130
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 934 580 filed Jan. 31 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to the field of establishing recorded communications between a negotiator and subject.

In a crisis situation such as when a subject holds another person hostage or where a subject threatens their own life negotiators often need to establish communications with the subject. Traditionally the negotiator uses a communication device which is referred to as a throw phone to communicate with the subject. The device is aptly named due to the phone like appearance and because negotiators often literally throw the device to the subject to establish a dedicated line of communication. Unlike an actual phone system however the throw phone utilizes a proprietary secured wireless or wired two way communications channel rather than the public switching telephone network PSTN or network of a wireless carrier. Consequently the negotiator must be on site to begin engaging in communications with the subject.

While the throw phone advantageously provides a secure and direct line of communication the drawbacks are numerous. First the device itself is cost prohibitive for many agencies lacking access to funding for such a device or do not have a demonstrated need justifying the cost. Second due to the cost many agencies have only one or a limited number of such devices. Accordingly the throw phone may not be readably deployable and further require special technicians knowledgeable in its use for operation. Lastly remote monitoring or negotiation using the traditional throw phone system can prove difficult as personnel must be physically present. These shortcomings decrease the ability of responding personnel to immediately establish communications between the subject and the negotiator in a crisis situation.

The Figures FIG. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of the embodiments.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments for purposes of illustration only.

A negotiator communicates with a subject by way of telephonic calls and messages through a virtual number. Additionally monitoring parties of individual members serving specialized functions are optionally dialed in or permitted to dial in to monitor call audio receive the messages each time communications occur between the negotiator and the subject. Alternatively a member of a particular monitoring party may dial in ahead of a call and be placed in a waiting room for the party until the call happens.

Different parties may have different functions. The negotiator communicates with the subject and the subject with the negotiator through the virtual number. Additional monitoring parties may be configured in a variety of different ways to facilitate the function of the members in the party during a crisis negotiation. For example one monitoring party may be configured such that members can communicate amongst themselves while additionally receiving communications between the negotiator and the subject. Another monitoring party may be configured such that communication amongst the members is disabled and each member only receives communications between the negotiator and the subject. Another monitoring party may be configured such that communication amongst the members is disabled and each member only receives communications from another monitoring party. Audio from the monitoring parties may not be transmitted to the subject and or the negotiator so as not to interfere with the negotiations. However in some instances a monitoring party may be configured to transmit audio to the negotiator or negotiator and subject.

In establishing communications the negotiator may spoof the number information presented to the subject device to show information corresponding to the device of a trusted source of the subject to increase the chances the subject will respond to the communication attempt. The trusted source s device and or telephony system may be configured to ignore incoming calls from the subject device to automatically route incoming communication from the subject device through the virtual number to either the negotiator device or back to the trusted source s device to enable recording of the communications participation in the communication by the negotiator and or monitoring of the communications by a monitoring party.

Example embodiments described herein relate to implementing a crisis negotiation system over a wired e.g. PSTN and the Internet and wireless radio network e.g. PSTN Cellular Network and or WiFi for network capable devices such as a mobile phone a land line phone VoIP phone or computer with a virtual number configured for crisis negotiation.

As mobile phones and similar devices are commonly carried by negotiators and other party members during the course of their duties mobile phones offer an existing platform for managing crisis negotiations without dedicated equipment that may not be readily available at the scene. Additionally with the popularity of smart phones and feature phones additional monitoring features may be integrated into the negotiator and team member devices for enhancing operational viability in the field.

Conversations between the negotiator and subject using their respective devices may be recorded and all or a portion of the conversations distributed over existing channels e.g. a network back to the agency agency service party members or another entity. Embodiments of the agency agency service and or other entities within the crisis negotiation system receive the collected data for storage and or live streaming to monitoring devices negotiator devices and records. Depending on the embodiment the negotiator and monitoring devices are further configured to access and present e.g. play and or display a variety of the conversation data stored on or streamed by the entities on the network. For example the monitoring devices may access a web interface API or execute a standalone application for viewing active crisis negotiation communications such as retrieving audio data from crisis negotiations or viewing messages e.g. SMS MMS and other textual communications and viewing other information associated with crisis negotiations. In some embodiments the monitoring devices may access portions of the real time data via a provided monitoring line configured for maintaining the covertness of the crisis negotiation. Additionally the crisis negotiation system may actively dial in monitoring devices to access real time data such as call audio and forward messages and other textual communications to the monitoring devices. Furthermore other agencies with appropriate credentials and monitoring devices may similarly access portions of the collected information during inter agency responses.

Agency service represents a collection of compute devices e.g. servers and related storage mediums that are configured for performing various activities such as configuring virtual numbers negotiator devices exchanging data over the network and storing data in support of one or more agencies not shown and operated negotiator devices . For example the agency service may include one or more modules providing ascribed functionality to an agency via an application programming interface API or web interface collectively the interface as described in more detail with reference to . The agency service may also include infrastructure for providing audio and video communicability e.g. internally and or over the network within the monitoring interface using the public switched telephone network PSTN voice over internet protocol VoIP and video conferencing services.

The negotiator devices are oftentimes mobile telephonic devices capable of collecting data and transmitting data e.g. wirelessly over the network . Some examples of a negotiator device include a mobile phone tablet or notebook computer. Example embodiments of the negotiator device as a mobile phone include feature phones smart phones or standard mobile phones. Accordingly a given mobile phone or other device operated as a negotiator device may not necessarily include or support all of the functionality ascribed herein to the negotiator device or crisis negotiation system due to inherent differences in device capabilities. In some embodiments other telephonic devices such as land line phones are used with the crisis negotiation system.

In one embodiment the negotiator device executes a CN module for automating the setup of crisis negotiation connections through the network and collecting and transmitting data to entities on the network . An example embodiment of a CN module is described in more detail with reference to . Features of the CN module may also be included at the agency service and accessed from an interface.

In addition to the negotiator device a number of monitoring devices not shown may connect to entities on the network to obtain or present data associated with one or more ongoing crisis negotiations involving a negotiator device. Depending on the embodiment a monitoring device is a network capable device that can be operated within an agency or externally in the field. As referred to herein a monitoring device is a mobile or stationary device capable of connectivity e.g. wireless or wired to a network such as an agency network the internet PSTN and or cellular network. Some examples of a monitoring device include a mobile phone land line phone tablet and notebook or desktop computer.

Example embodiments of the monitoring device as a mobile phone can include feature phones smart phones or standard mobile phones. Accordingly a given mobile phone or other device operated as a monitoring device does not necessarily include or support all of the functionality ascribed herein to the monitoring device or the crisis negotiation system due to inherent differences in device capabilities. In one example embodiment the monitoring device executes a monitoring module for interfacing with entities on the network to monitor communications between the negotiator device and subject device and view collected data.

Also shown is a subject device associated with the subject the negotiator desires to communicate with. Embodiments of the various subject devices include any network capable device that may send or receive information associated with a transmitting number on the network however in some instances the subject device may use a virtual number itself or other means to do so . Accordingly as referred to herein a subject device can be a mobile or stationary device capable of connectivity e.g. wireless or wired to the network for sending or receiving information over the internet PSTN and or cellular network. Some examples of a subject device include a mobile phone land line phone tablet and notebook or desktop computer capable of receiving an incoming call.

After authenticating the negotiator device the agency service enables the negotiator to specify a subject to initiate communications in the crisis negotiation with using the negotiator device. Alternatively the agency service may configure the virtual number such that a pre specified subject device automatically receives communications through the virtual number when the negotiator device communicates with the virtual number.

In the case of audio communications once the negotiator device is connected to the virtual number the agency service enables the negotiator to specify the subject device with which to communicate with during the crisis negotiation or identifies the subject device in the mapping table. In turn the virtual number is utilized to dial out to the subject device which appears as a regular call from a device having specified number information for the virtual number. Thus for example the number information may be configured to spoof an identity of the virtual number such as to match that of a device belonging to a relative or relation of the subject. In other words when the negotiator device connects to the virtual number the agency service transmits instructions e.g. to a provider to dial out to the subject device using the number information specified for the virtual number to connect the negotiator device and the subject device . In turn a number of monitoring devices may also be dialed in or dial in to the virtual number to listen to call audio between the negotiator and the subject. Optionally users of the monitoring devices may communicate with each other with outbound audio to the negotiator and subject disabled.

The subject device may also initiate communications with the negotiator device through the virtual number . In such cases devices dialing the virtual number and not identified as either a negotiator device or monitoring device may be automatically connected as a subject device . Alternatively the negotiator device and or agency service may specify mapping information for the subject device if device information is known e.g. if the subject device is provided to the subject or otherwise known .

In one embodiment the agency service stores party configurations for the virtual number . The party configuration information identifies the various monitoring devices connecting to the virtual number based on supplied authentication information and identifies any monitoring devices that that should automatically receive or be notified of new communications between the negotiator and the subject. Example party configurations are explained in greater detail with reference to .

The network represents the communication pathway between agencies agency service the negotiator devices subject devices monitoring devices and other entities not shown . In one embodiment the network includes standard communications technologies and or protocols and can include the Internet and PSTN. Oftentimes these communications technologies and or protocols carry both PSTN and Internet related data. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 2G 3G 4G mobile communications protocols worldwide interoperability for PSTN communications digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand PCI Express Advanced Switching etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including analog audio e.g. for last mile PSTN communications digital audio and video e.g. as a file or streaming with Real Time Streaming Protocol the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML JavaScript VBScript FLASH the portable document format PDF etc. In addition all or some of the data exchanged over the network can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS virtual private networks VPNs Internet Protocol security IPsec etc. In another embodiment the entities on the network can use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above. For example some government agencies and the military may operate networks auxiliary to the internet and PSTN.

Party A may include a number of monitoring devices connected to the virtual number and capable of receiving call audio. The monitoring devices in Party A may be identified based on authentication information received upon their dialing into the virtual number and or dialed in automatically based on transmitting numbers of the monitoring devices stored in a mapping table and optionally providing authentication information . In one embodiment configuration information specified for Party A configures the connection of Party A monitoring devices with the virtual number such that they receive call audio between the negotiator device and the subject device in addition to audio from other monitoring devices with the Party A. Accordingly users of monitoring devices belonging to Party A may communicate with each other in addition to listening to call audio between the negotiator and the subject without transmitting audio to either the negotiator and the subject.

Party B may also include a number of monitoring devices connected to the virtual number and capable of receiving call audio. In one embodiment configuration information specified for Party B configures the connection of Party B monitoring devices with the virtual number such that they have interparty communications disabled and are only be able to receive call audio between the negotiator and the subject e.g. all outgoing communications are disabled .

Party C includes include a number of monitoring devices connected to the virtual number and capable of receiving call audio including both that of the negotiator subject and the another party such as the depicted party A audio. In one embodiment configuration information specified for Party C configures the connection of Party C monitoring devices with the virtual number such that they have interparty communications disabled receive negotiator and subject call audio and receive party A audio. In other embodiments not shown configuration information specified for Party C configures the connection of Party C monitoring devices with the virtual number such that they only receive audio from Party A. Thus for example if Party C members are part of an ingress team tasked with apprehending the subject they may receive only instructions and or updates from party A.

4. outbound communications to the negotiator and or subject enabled disabled and if outbound communications are enabled to which entity outbound communications should be directed e.g. to the negotiator device .

The agency service may store party configuration information including configuration information for connections of monitoring devices in a party with the virtual number authentication information for monitoring device assigned to the party and or authentication information for a monitoring device to join the party in the form of a mapping table. The agency service may receive the party configuration information which may be provided by the negotiator device and or monitoring device via an interface. In one embodiment the interface may be accessed using a CN module and or monitoring module executing on a device or online website. Thus for example the negotiator and or monitors may enter the names and device information for each potential user of the system and assign the user or device of the user to a specific party in the mapping table. Users may be added or moved to different parties on the fly. Additionally a member of a given party such as a secondary negotiator may be swapped with the current negotiator or otherwise be enabled to communicate with the negotiator device solely or both the negotiator and subject in real time utilizing the interface or CN monitoring module.

Alternatively a user may dial into the virtual number being used to communicate with the suspect or a separate monitoring number which call audio is transmitted to in a similar fashion to a monitoring device and enter a party specific PIN to join the corresponding party.

Alternative configurations may enable a user to text the virtual number or the separate monitoring number with a pin to join or leave a party or visit a mobile website and enter their PIN and either stream audio online or be dialed into the virtual number. A user may join a party until later removed or their membership may be set to expire after a time period such as 12 hours when the user s shift is over in which case a replacement party member may be automatically dialed in. These additional options may be also specified in the party configuration information stored in a mapping table.

In addition to call audio party members may receive textual and image communications between the negotiator device and the subject device . For example the negotiator device may transmit data such as a short message service SMS message to the virtual number and specify the subject device as the recipient for receiving the SMS message from the virtual number . In other words the agency service may transmit instructions e.g. to a provider to either dial out to the subject device from the virtual number to connect the negotiator device with the subject device or to send an SMS message from the virtual number to transmit data received from the negotiator device to the subject. In instances where device information for the subject is known and stored in the mapping table at the agency service the negotiator device identified by its transmitting number may simply text the virtual number . Similarly text messaged received at the virtual number from the subject device identified by its transmitting number may be transmitted to the negotiator device . In instances where device information of the subject device is not known e.g. if a bull horn is being used to instruct the subject to contact the virtual number all text messages received at the virtual number may be passed to the negotiator until device information for the subject is ascertained and stored in the mapping table. Text messages received at the virtual number may be identified as originating from either the subject or negotiator and transmitted to the desired monitoring devices e.g. based on party affiliation specified in the mapping table.

As used herein the term module refers to computer program instructions and or other logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules formed of executable computer program instructions are stored on a non transitory storage device loaded into memory and executed by a computer processor as one or more processes.

As used herein the terms message messaging and short messaging service SMS message each comprise the breadth of messaging services and related technologies or standards used for communicating and transmitting data over the network . These technologies and services include SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages proprietary messaging service messages such as BLACKBERRY messages BBM and the like.

Agency represents a collection of servers desktop notebook or tablet computers mobile telephones and related storage mediums used by respective agency personnel for executing applications or modules to communicate with and receive data from the agency service e.g. via the interface and other entities on the network . For example agency devices may execute a web browser to access a web interface or execute a mobile or desktop application for communicating with an API provided by the agency service . An agency may also include telephonic and video infrastructure enabling audio and video communicability e.g. internally and or over the network using the public switched telephone network PSTN voice over internet protocol VoIP and video conferencing services for monitoring or specifying configurations for monitoring crisis negotiations via virtual numbers.

The telephony network may include servers switches and other hardware and software for implementing among other protocols and technologies worldwide interoperability for PSTN communications including land lines and 2G 3G 4G wireless protocols. The telephony network also provides mobile devices with the capability to transmit and receive data over the internet . The telephony network is managed by one or more communication service providers CSPs not shown that own telephone numbers for use on the PSTN and the CSPs own network e.g. a wireless network that communicates with the PSTN .

The provider may include servers switches and other hardware and software for communicating over the network with CSPs and other entities. The provider buys or leases numbers for use on the telephony network from multiple CSPs. The provider in turn manages numbers provisioned for use by the agency service and the telephony traffic associated with the numbers. In one embodiment the provider allows the agency service to provision one or more of the numbers as virtual numbers over the network .

Typically a number used on the telephony network directs to a given mobile device VoIP device or land line device having an associated number identity characterized by automatic number identification ANI information or caller identification. Virtual numbers while still operable with the PSTN and CSP networks are associated with the provider who handles telephony traffic for the number. Because a virtual number does not direct to an end user device the provider may establish connections using the virtual number with devices dialing dialed or otherwise identified based on instructions or configuration information received from the agency service agency negotiator device and or monitoring device . Additionally the provider may record crisis negotiation information such as call audio textual image communications and caller history e.g. on a computer readable medium and stream provide the information for download e.g. over the network .

The provider may also pass bridge audio bidirectional or unidirectional in real time between two or more telephonic devices with virtual numbers or connected by the provider via a virtual number . For message communications the provider may forward the communication to an entity specified in the mapping table. Additionally as the virtual numbers are handled by the provider the agency service may modify ANI information and caller identification associated with the virtual number. The provider may also receive instructions to present a set of ANI information and caller identification information e.g. a spoofed number identity from one device e.g. that of a trusted source of the subject to another e.g. that of the subject when connecting devices e.g. the negotiator device to the subject device via virtual numbers.

In addition to provisioning virtual numbers for the agency service the provider communicates notifications and data associated with the virtual numbers to the agency service or other entity such as the agency . For example the provider may notify the agency service and optionally a monitoring device when a negotiator device and or subject device communicate through the virtual number in a crisis negotiation or upon completion of a communication in crisis negotiation. The provider may notify the agency service and optionally a monitoring device of an incoming call e.g. the subject or negotiator or message to the virtual number and receive instructions from the agency service to establish a connection between the calling device and the virtual number and dial out or redirect the message to another device to establish communications between the subject and negotiator. The provider may also receive instructions to stop start recordings of communications in a crisis negotiation on the virtual number and interface with a transcription service to transcribe call audio. In turn the provider can transmit the recordings and transcripts to the agency service or other entity on the network .

Additionally the provider may provide options to enable or disable inbound and or outbound audio for monitoring devices in different parties connected to a virtual number and recordings thereof responsive to instructions received e.g. via an API from the agency service monitoring device or negotiator device . The provider may receive instructions for storing party configurations and managing a virtual number as part of the provisioning process prior to an incoming call in real time when connecting devices through the virtual number and during crisis negotiations. In some embodiments the provider communicates directly with the agency operating device and or monitoring device to provision virtual numbers transmit notifications and data or receive instructions. Additionally the provider itself may function as a CSP and vice versa.

The agency service receives requests for provisioning and mapping virtual number from the agency negotiator device or monitoring device and stores the party configurations . The requests can include number information for provisioning virtual numbers such as an area code e.g. 555 country code e.g. 44 and or associated CSP. In turn the agency service queries the provider for available virtual numbers matching the request and returns the matching virtual numbers to the requesting entity. The agency service subsequently receives a selection of virtual numbers from the requesting entity and claims the virtual numbers from the provider . The agency service may optionally allow the entity to specify number information such as ANI and or caller identification associated with the virtual number to spoof the number s identity on the network . The agency service in turn transmits instructions to the provider for modifying the number identity. The agency service may optionally verify the spoofed number identity. When a virtual number is no longer needed by the agency the agency service releases the number back to the provider .

The requests can also include mapping information for configuring claimed virtual number function in a mapping table along with identifying party members of the different parties. Depending on the desired configuration the mapping information may include the transmitting number and or a PIN for authenticating negotiator devices requesting to administrate a crisis negotiation monitoring devices for monitoring communications on the virtual number and the transmitting number of the subject device . One example mapping request may specify a claimed virtual number for use as a crisis negotiation CN number that negotiator devices connects to in order to engage in a crisis negotiation over the telephony network with a subject device . In one embodiment the request includes the transmitting numbers of negotiator device allowed to use the virtual number for communicating with the subject and known device information for the subject. The request may alternatively or in addition include a PIN that the negotiator may enter on any device connecting to the virtual number to authenticate the device as a negotiator device . Entering of the negotiator PIN may automatically configure that device as the primary negotiator device . In response to the request the agency service associates the transmitting numbers or PIN with the virtual number and stores the association in a mapping table. Different PINs and configurations for respective parties may also be stored and the PINs entered by the various monitoring devices to join the respective parties.

In practice agency service may consult the mapping table to automatically identify a device attempting to communicate through the virtual number as the negotiator device monitoring device or subject device based on the device s transmitting number. Thus for example a negotiator using a negotiator device may simply dial the CN number mapped to the transmitting number of his phone to automatically attempt to establish communications with the subject device. Similarly when the subject device communicates with the virtual number the communications are automatically routed to the negotiator device .

Monitoring devices may be identified in a similar fashion by their transmitting numbers to monitor communication from their assigned party. Alternatively monitoring devices may be required to enter a PIN corresponding to a party e.g. in addition to or instead of transmitting number authentication to join the party and monitor the communications. For example in some embodiments personnel with a monitoring device may be enabled to listen in on the crisis negotiation in real time with a mobile or land line phone at the agency or in the field by having the transmitting number of their devices or a separate PIN associated with the CN number in the mapping table. Additionally the monitoring device may be connected based on the stored party configuration information for assisting in the crisis negotiation based on the user s role. Accordingly the monitoring device may be authenticated based on its transmitting number and or an entered PIN and receive crisis negotiation audio via the CN number from the subject and negotiator and or from another party.

Additionally embodiments of the agency service can use the mapping of monitoring devices for instructing the provider to automatically dial e.g. from a specified virtual number or otherwise notify e.g. a SMS text message or email monitoring devices of communications on a given CN number. The agency service may also notify monitoring devices through the interface or via email.

To prohibit unauthorized access to CN numbers the agency service may allow negotiators and other personnel such as party members to specify key ins for authorizing devices when provisioning and or mapping virtual numbers. The agency service stores the key ins in the mapping table or other suitable database structure to identify and authenticate devices attempting connections to the virtual numbers responsive to correct key ins. Depending on the embodiment the agency agency service or provider may store the mapping table and or key ins for device identification and authentication.

In some embodiments the agency service queries one or more third party databases for the Caller ID information corresponding to the subject . The agency service may use the Caller ID information to verify the validity of subject device information provided by the negotiator device and or for instructing the provider to use a given virtual number with the specified number information e.g. that of a relation to the subject for dialing out to a subject.

In some embodiments the agency service provides a crisis negotiation CN module to the negotiator device or monitoring device . The CN module when executed interfaces with the agency service to specify and modify party configurations provision and modify number information of virtual numbers for crisis negotiations and specify device information for the subject device . The CN module is described in more detail with reference to .

In some embodiments the agency service includes an interface for providing data received from negotiator device and crisis negotiation communications between the subject device and negotiator device to various monitoring devices and or appliances over the network . For example the interface may provide monitoring devices and the appliance with data corresponding to the status of one or more CN numbers e.g. in use complete call history etc. and subject device information. If a CN number is in use and the negotiator and subject are communicating real time the interface may stream data such as audio and text image communications through the virtual number received from the provider . In some embodiments the interface syncs collected data prior to transmission or includes tags in the transmitted data for synchronization of playback at the monitoring device or negotiator device . The interface can also stream or provide for download data from completed crisis negotiation recordings. In one embodiment the interface provides a timeline of the various communications during the crisis negotiation between the negotiator and subject and optionally any recorded party communications. The timeline may indicate the timestamps and duration of communications which a user may select to view or play back a recording thereof.

In some embodiments the agency service provides a monitoring module to monitoring devices for accessing the interface . The monitoring module transmits requests associated with configuring negotiator devices and virtual numbers and receiving real time and historic data for crisis negotiations. For example the monitoring module may provide a user interface or status dashboard with options for provisioning virtual numbers mapping a transmitting number to a given virtual number and assigning PINs for authenticating connections to the virtual number. Additionally the monitoring module may provide a user interface for identifying a virtual number as a CN number in the mapping table. In one embodiment the dashboard provides an option to toggle recording of a crisis negotiation on or off with the agency service . When the recording session is disabled the monitoring device still receives real time data but the agency service appliance and provider do not store copies of the collected data.

The monitoring module may also be used to access and playback historic activity associated with a given virtual number or negotiator device . For example the monitoring module may download files associated with a crisis negotiation for playback or stream them. In addition to interfacing with the agency service the monitoring module may interface with an appliance that stores or backs up collected data within the agency . In some embodiments the monitoring module may include functionality of the CN module and vice versa.

In one embodiment the agency includes an appliance for storing data collected by negotiator devices and crisis negotiation information and audio. The appliance may utilize the monitoring interface provided by the agency service for updating stored data or receive data directly from negotiator devices . Additionally the appliance may receive audio recorded between the negotiator device and subject device and amongst different parties during the crisis negotiation and any associated transcripts of the audio from the provider or agency service . One example embodiment of the appliance also includes its own interface not shown that enables monitoring devices and negotiator device to access real time and historic data stored on the appliance for administered crisis negotiations. Interfaces provided by the agency service or appliance may also be accessible via a web browser for streaming or downloading data and include the same or similar options.

Additionally the appliance and agency service may communicate to intermittently update collected data and records at defined intervals or in response to notifications to download data. During the intervals or notification periods the agency service may process the data and perform any necessary actions as desired by negotiator devices or monitoring device until the data is transferred to the appliance . In some embodiments the agency service maintains a persistent connection with the appliance to facilitate transfer of real time data collected by negotiator devices operated in the field.

In one embodiment the agency service ensures that it and the provider do not store data collected by negotiator devices or from a virtual number beyond the time needed to facilitate transfer. However in mission critical situations negotiators and other agency personnel cannot rely only on the availability of the appliance for storing and maintaining collected data. Consequently if the appliance is unable to take possession of the collected data or goes offline during transfer the agency service and or the provider may maintain possession of the collected data until the appliance is functioning. Furthermore the agency service and or provider may determine whether checksums hashes or sizes of transferred data match the appliance s version prior to deleting stored data.

In some embodiments the agency service maintains a database not shown storing hashes e.g. MD5 SHA etc. that uniquely identify evidentiary files transmitted to the appliance . In the context of criminal investigations the stored hash may serve to prove that recordings and other data on the appliance have not been tampered with or compromised.

In some embodiments the agency service maintains an appliance instead of or in addition to the agency . In such cases the appliance may exist as a dedicated piece of hardware or remote storage. Alternatively embodiments of the appliance may be implemented in a cloud computing and storage stack available on the network .

As shown in the CN module itself includes multiple modules. In the embodiment shown in the CN module includes a connection module provisioning module caller ID module case module and SMS module . In some embodiments the functions are distributed among the modules in a different manner than described herein. Other embodiments have additional and or other modules.

The connection module automates the connection process for dialing out to a subject device. The connection module receives input from the user including a CN number associated with the negotiator device . Once a connection with the CN number is established the connection module may transmit the number for a subject device the negotiator desires to communicate with over the network . The connection module may allow the negotiator to enter the number of the subject device prior to or after establishing the connection with the CN number. The connection module may also allow the negotiator device to specify any number information for the virtual number. Additionally the connection module may interface with the agency service to determine whether a subject device has been associated with the CN number in the mapping table and present number information for the virtual number which may be modified by the negotiator device . In such cases the authentication information provided to the agency service for the negotiator device causes the agency service to dial out to the subject device based on the mapping table.

In one embodiment the connection module detects whether incoming calls were initially placed to a CN number. The connection module subsequently determines the CN number and or subject device information for display to the user. For example the connection module may interface with the agency service to determine information about incoming calls to the device from the CN number e.g. for called placed to the CN number from the subject device based on mapping table information.

Depending on the negotiator device s capabilities the communication module may enable placement receipt of multiple outgoing and incoming calls to virtual and non virtual numbers within the native dialer application or similar.

The provisioning module interfaces with the provider or agency services to provision virtual numbers and modify virtual number assignments and party configuration in the field. Alternatively a web browser on the negotiator device may be used. For example the web browser or provisioning module may present the negotiator with a list of all virtual numbers associated with a given account with the agency service . Through the interface the negotiator may provision a virtual number modify mapping information for the virtual number and configure the virtual number as a CN numbers along with specifying the subject device and monitoring devices in the respective parties.

The provisioning module may also be used to specify the configuration of each party. For example the transmitting numbers of monitoring devices may be specified for a given party. Alternatively a PIN associated with the party may be specified such that when a monitoring device is connected with the virtual number entering a PIN causes the monitoring device to be joined with the specified party.

Example configuration options that may be specified at the provisioning module for each party may include whether 

4. outbound communications to the negotiator and or subject enabled disabled and if outbound communications are enabled to which entity outbound communications should be directed e.g. to the negotiator device .

The provisioning module transmits the specified configurations options for each party to the agency service for storage. The agency service may additionally modify mapping table information for the CN number to associate one or more parties having the desired configurations with the CN number. The negotiator device or other entity such as an authorized monitoring device may adjust the party configurations as necessary throughout the negotiation using the provisioning module or through the interface e.g. utilizing a web browser .

Because the mapping and party configurations may be altered in real time the crisis negotiation system may be utilized by first responders to begin a crisis negotiation and later specify a dedicated or other negotiator device and additional monitoring devices when additional personnel arrive at the scene or are otherwise needed.

The caller ID module interfaces with the provider or agency services to modify caller ID or other number information associated with provisioned virtual numbers. For example the caller ID module presents an interface to the negotiator to specify number information such as location ownership carrier and whether or not any of the information should be restricted or blocked when dialing out e.g. to the subject device from a given CN number.

In some embodiments the case module interfaces with the provider agency services or appliance to retrieve activities associated with a given CN number or case number which one or more crisis negotiations are associated with. For example the case module presents an interface with CN numbers or case numbers that the negotiator may select for example to view associated crisis negotiation activity. The case module may further provide an interface for the negotiator to associate subject information with a given CN number or case number to automate connections and passage of messages through the virtual number between the negotiator device and subject device .

Additionally the case module may retrieve activities associated with a given transmitting number of a negotiator device used to administrate one or more crisis negotiations. For example the case module may transmit the transmitting number of the negotiator device executing the case module or other PIN information provided by the negotiator to the agency service or appliance to retrieve information about crisis negotiations administrated with the device or by the negotiator.

In some embodiments the CN module includes an SMS module for sending SMS messages and receiving SMS messages through the CN number. The SMS module may send and receive SMS messages natively e.g. via the provider and or send and receive non native messages e.g. via the agency services depending on the device capabilities. The SMS module provides an interface to the user for selecting or otherwise specifying a CN number to use for sending an SMS message and the number of the subject device that should receive the message. The SMS module communicates e.g. using the SMS itself or via the interface the information for directing the SMS message to the subject device to the agency service and or the provider . The SMS module may further receive SMS messages sent to a CN number natively or via the interface . Additionally the SMS module may interface with the agency service to determine whether a subject device has been associated with the CN number in the mapping table and present number information for the virtual number to the negotiator device . In such cases the authentication information provided to the agency service for the negotiator device causes the agency service to transmit messages out to the subject device from the CN number based on the mapping table. Similarly messages received at the CN number may be identified as being transmitted from the subject device and transmitted to the negotiator device automatically based on the mapping table.

Additionally some or all of the features provided by the CN module may require the negotiator to enter a specified key in e.g. button press combination password or other personal identification prior to operation or launch. Further all or some of the features of the monitoring module may be included in the CN module and vice versa. In one embodiment the CN module includes features for establishing communications with the subject device that are not included or otherwise disabled in the monitoring module.

The agency service queries the provider for virtual numbers matching the specified calling code. The provider returns a list of available virtual numbers to the agency service which in turn transmits the virtual numbers for display to the requestor. The agency service receives one or more virtual number selections and claims each selected virtual number from the provider . The agency service may optionally include corresponding ANI and caller identification information for a virtual number that may be edited on the requesting device or in the web interface. The agency service subsequently stores the modified virtual number information and instructs the provider to update the associated virtual number information.

With one or more virtual numbers claimed the agency service can receive mapping requests for the virtual numbers and in turn map the virtual numbers responsive to information in the mapping request. For example the requestor may be prompted to enter the transmitting number of a negotiator device and subject device for association with a virtual number to be used as a CN number. The agency service stores the transmitting numbers of the negotiator device and subject device and the CN number in a mapping table e.g. at the agency service or on the appliance . The requestor or other authorized entity may modify the mapping at any time without any interruption of service at the receiving number. The requestor may also be prompted to enter a PIN for association with the virtual number to be used as a CN number. In such cases the PIN number may be stored instead of or in addition to the transmitting number of a negotiator device or otherwise used to identify when the negotiator device connects to the CN number.

When a negotiator device subsequently dials a CN number the agency service authenticates negotiator device responsive to the transmitting number associated with the CN number. The agency service may further identify the negotiator device from the mapping table responsive to a PIN provided by the negotiator. In turn the agency service instructs the provider to connect the negotiator device to the CN number and provides any additional configuration instructions for the CN number during the crisis negotiation process. A requestor may re specify the mapping configuration as needed to change or swap transmitting numbers and PINs associated with CN numbers.

Example embodiments of monitoring device mapping to virtual numbers for monitoring crisis negotiations may be performed in the same or similar fashion as negotiator device mappings.

Additionally when provisioning and mapping the virtual number or after the virtual number is mapped the agency service may configure parties for the CN number based on instructions from the negotiator device or monitoring device configuring or having authorized access to modify mapping information for the CN number. For example a number of monitoring devices may be associated with the CN number in the mapping table and each assigned to a given party associated with the CN number. Further configuration options for the given party may be received and stored in the mapping table for accordingly configuring the connection of the monitoring devices with the CN number that are identified as members of the given party. Thus when a given monitoring device dials into the CN number the agency service may automatically identify the given monitoring device as an authorized device based on the transmitting number for monitoring communications on the CN number and identify the party to which the given monitoring device is assigned. In turn the agency service configures the connection of the monitoring device with the CN number based on configuration information stored in the mapping table for the assigned party.

Additionally when either the negotiator device or subject device communicate using the CN number the agency service may automatically identify one or more monitoring devices e.g. identified in the mapping table based on party affiliation all monitoring devices or select monitoring device associated with the CN number in the mapping table and instruct the provider to dial out to the monitoring devices to establish connections for monitoring audio communications between the negotiator and the subject. When a monitoring device receives the dial in request e.g. as an incoming connection request such as a telephonic call and if the connection request is accepted the monitoring device is connected to the CN number based on configuration information stored in the mapping table for the assigned party. In the case of messages transmitted through the CN number the messages may be forwarded to one or more of the monitoring devices e.g. identified in the mapping table based on party affiliation all monitoring devices or select monitoring device .

From the mapping table A when the agency service receives connection requests to CN number from the network the agency service authenticates the requesting device based on the transmitting number of the requesting device matching an authenticated transmitting number A stored in association with the CN number. Additionally from the mapping table A the requesting device may be identified as one of a negotiator device subject device or monitor device in a particular party based on the party information mapped to the transmitting number.

In instances where no authenticated transmitting number A of a subject device is specified the agency service or provider may receive number information for the subject device when the device requesting to connect to the CN number is identified as the negotiator device . In turn the agency service instructs the provider to dial out using the provided number information for the subject device from the CN number . Additionally in instances where no authenticated transmitting number A of a subject device is specified and a device requesting to connect to the CN number cannot be identified as either a negotiator device or monitoring device the requesting device may be identified as the subject device.

In some embodiments prior to permitting the negotiator device to communicate with a subject device in a crisis negotiation using the CN number or a monitoring device to receive audio and join a monitoring party the agency service may wait for or instruct the provider to wait for key in of a specified PIN number stored in association with the authenticated transmitting number A of the monitoring device and or negotiator device as an additional measure of security.

In some embodiments more than one negotiator device may be mapped to a same CN number. Similarly in some embodiments more than one subject device may be mapped to a same CN number.

In one embodiment the negotiator or monitor must enter the PIN or key in to enter a PIN e.g. hitting or prior to entering the PIN within a given time period e.g. 2 5 seconds to avoid being disconnected or identified as a subject device if no subject device transmitting number is specified in mapping table A .

For any device dialing the CN number the provider receives the connection request via the telephony network and identifies the dialed CN number as a virtual number provisioned by agency service . Accordingly in embodiments where the agency service stores the mapping table the provider passes authentication information such as the transmitting number of the device and the virtual number to the agency service .

The agency service in turn authenticates the device attempting to connect to the CN number as a negotiator device subject device or monitoring device based on agreement of the authentication information with the mapping of the transmitting number and the CN number stored in the mapping table. The agency service in turn instructs the provider to connect the negotiator device subject device or monitoring device to the CN number and provides instructions for configuring the connection based on an identified party to which the device belongs. For example the party to which the device belongs may be stored in association with the transmitting number of the device and CN number in the mapping table to setup the crisis negotiation connection. Example embodiments of setting up the crisis negotiation are explained in more detail with reference to .

In some embodiments a negotiator device and or monitoring device may provide additional or different authentication information to the provider and or agency service such as a PIN for authenticating party membership. The PIN may be stored in association with the CN number and a corresponding party in the mapping table. Thus the user of the device may enter the PIN to identify with the corresponding party. For example an agency may want to enable the option to allow an unmapped negotiator device and or monitoring device to utilize a CN number. If no transmitting number is identified in the mapping table for the device dialing the CN number the agency service may instruct the provider to wait for an authentication key in of a PIN. Depending on the embodiment the negotiator device or monitoring device may provide the PIN prior to or subsequent to the agency service instructing the provider to connect the device.

If no PIN is entered and no transmitting number is stored for a subject device in the mapping table in association with the CN number the device dialing the CN number may be identified as the subject device. If no authentication key in of a PIN is provided and a transmitting number is stored for a subject device in the mapping table in association with the CN number the device dialing the CN number may be disconnected.

In some embodiments a separate virtual monitoring number may be established in addition to the CN number. For example in a similar fashion as described with reference to . The monitoring number may be associated with the CN number such that the agency service instructs the provider to bridge audio from the CN number to the monitoring number. In turn the transmitting numbers of monitoring devices and or PINS and corresponding monitoring party and any associated configuration options mapped to the monitoring number and stored in the mapping table to avoid a large party of monitors calling the CN number and being incorrectly identified as the subject device during the crisis negotiations e.g. if an authenticated transmitting number has not yet been stored for either a monitoring device or subject device .

By having a unique monitoring number any monitor requesting to connect to the monitoring virtual number may enter a PIN and a prompt may be played as the subject is not provided with the monitoring number to join the respective party mapped to the PIN or automatically connected if the transmitting number and monitoring party for the monitoring device are identified in the mapping table in a fashion similar to that for devices requesting to connect to the CN number. In some embodiments the monitoring number or CN number may be a toll free number which by its nature unblocks and reveals the true number if any incoming caller which aids in the ability to identify the device and hence the appropriate party.

In some embodiments information for more than one subject device may be provided and or identified in the mapping table. In such cases the agency service instructs the provider to dial out A to each subject device for establishing communications between the negotiator and the subjects. The communications may proceed when one or both of the subjects establishes a connection.

The agency service instructs the provider to configure a connection through the CN number to establish communications between the negotiator device and the subject device . For example the instructions in the case of an authenticated negotiator device cause the provider to dial out to the subject device from the CN number based on the transmitting number either received in the subject device information or identified for the subject device associated with the CN number in the mapping table. Thus when the subject receives a connection request on the subject device the request appears to originate from the CN number. Accordingly the subject device will display number information if any e.g. for blocked or restricted number for the CN number rather than the negotiator device . In some embodiments the instructions may include number information for spoofing the number information of the CN number to mimic that of a relation of the subject. If the subject device accepts the connection request the provider establishes a connection between the negotiator device and the subject device e.g. through the CN number .

The connection between the negotiator device and the subject device is configured by the provider based on the instructions to enable audio communications between the two devices. The negotiator device collects audio data via a microphone coupled to the negotiator device and transmits the collected audio data to the provider which in turn transmits the audio to the subject device by way of the connection through the CN number. The subject device communicates with the negotiator device through the CN in a similar fashion. Thus with bi directional audio communication enabled between the subject device and negotiator device the negotiator and subject may communicate during a crisis.

The agency service may additionally instruct the provider to dial out to monitoring devices with a transmitting number associated with the CN number in the mapping table. The monitoring devices may either be dialed out to from the CN number or a dedicated monitoring number to which audio from the CN number is bridged to for monitoring. The instructions may also specify a configuration for establishing the connection with a given monitoring device for monitoring the negotiations . For example the agency service may provide instructions for dialing out to a given monitoring device based on the transmitting number of the monitoring device and monitoring party associated with the transmitting number in the mapping table. Thus the instructions may include the party configuration options specified e.g. in the mapping table for the monitoring party to which the monitoring device is assigned. In turn when the monitoring device accepts the connection request to monitor the negotiations the provider establishes a connection configured such that the monitoring device only receives audio from e.g. the subject and negotiator and or other monitoring devices in a same and or different monitoring party and transmits audio to e.g. monitoring devices in the same and or different monitoring party and or another monitoring party the appropriate devices.

In some embodiments the negotiator device and or monitoring device may transmit commands e.g. via the CN or monitoring module that specify actions the provider and or agency service should take during the crisis negotiation. For example the commands may cause the provider to start or stop recording of audio and disconnect a device or modify connection configurations of a monitoring device negotiator device or monitoring party.

The provider and or the agency service may update the appliance with recorded audio data during the crisis negotiation. The agency service or provider may also update the appliance with any other data received from the provider and or negotiator device and subject device such as messages routed between the subject device and the negotiator device via the CN number according to the mapping table. These messages may also be forwarded to the monitoring devices based on instructions from the agency service .

In one embodiment after the crisis negotiation is completed the agency service may notify the negotiator device or monitoring device that the recorded audio is available from the agency service or appliance . For example the agency service may transmit an e mail to the negotiator device or instruct the provider to transmit a text message to the transmitting number of the negotiator device reading To listen to the crisis negotiation visit URL www.example.com transmittingnumber and enter PIN random . Accordingly by accessing the URL e.g. provided by the interface and entering the PIN the negotiator may playback the crisis negotiation and or create an account for viewing the crisis negotiations they administrate.

In some embodiments the number information for the CN number may have been spoofed during a prior attempt to establish communications or in establishing communications between the negotiator device and the subject device e.g. when initiated by the negotiator device as described in . Accordingly the transmitting number identified to the subject device which the subject would dial to communicate with the negotiator differs from the CN number. For example while the number information for the CN number may be spoofed to dial out to the subject device and appear as originating from the device of a relation any return connection request initiated by the subject device would be directed to the device of the relation. In another example the subject may only initiate attempts to communicate with a relation and ignore incoming connection requests once the subject realizes the negotiator may request connections with spoofed number information.

In order to route the connection request initiated to the relation or other spoofed transmitting number by the subject device to the CN number the agency service or device associated with the spoofed number may transmit a call forwarding or conditional call forwarding command identifying the CN number to the provider and instructing the provider to configure the spoofed number such that connection requests from the subject device to the spoofed number may be routed to the CN number and the subject device identified as described with reference to . Incoming connection requests to the spoofed number may be routed in all cases e.g. call forwarding or selectively e.g. conditional call forwarding . In conditional call forwarding the device of the relation may receive a connection request from the subject device and reject the connection request to route the connection request to the CN number.

In some embodiments the agency service and or relation via their device may instruct the provider to conditionally call forward incoming calls on the relation s transmitting number to the CN number and the agency service subsequently instruct the provider to route the connection request back to the device of the relation. In such instances the agency service identifies the subject device requesting to connect to the CN number as described with reference to the provider routes the connection through the CN number and back to the relation s device and operations for setting up the CN connection B are performed in response to the agency service having connected the subject device through the CN number to establish connections with the negotiator device and any monitoring devices .

If the negotiator device accepts the connection request the provider establishes a connection between the negotiator device and the subject device e.g. through the CN number . The connection between the negotiator device and the subject device is configured by the provider based on the instructions to enable audio communications between the two devices. The negotiator device collects audio data via a microphone coupled to the negotiator device and transmits the collected audio data to the provider which in turn transmits the audio to the subject device by way of the connection through the CN number. The subject device communicates with the negotiator device through the CN in a similar fashion. Thus with bi directional audio communication enabled between the subject device and negotiator device the negotiator and subject may communicate during a crisis.

The agency service may additionally instruct the provider to dial out to monitoring devices with a transmitting number associated with the CN number in the mapping table in a fashion similar to that described with reference to . Thus for example the monitoring devices may either be dialed out to from the CN number or a dedicated monitoring number to which audio from the CN number is bridged to for monitoring and the instructions may also specify a configuration for establishing the connection with a given monitoring device for monitoring the negotiations . Other operations such as updating the appliance may also be performed in a fashion similar to that described with reference to .

In one embodiment a monitoring device requests to connect to a CN number directly for monitoring A the crisis negotiation for example as described with reference to . In some embodiments a monitoring device may request to connect to a dedicated monitoring number associated with the CN number in the mapping table. In either instance instead of being authenticated by the agency service as a negotiator device or subject device the device is authenticated as a monitoring device e.g. from the mapping table by a transmitting number of the device or a provided PIN and the steps for setup of the CN connection illustrated in may be simplified as neither the subject device nor negotiator device should be dialed. Alternatively the monitoring device may receive a connection request from the CN number or dedicated monitoring number when dialed in as described with reference to or . In both instances the agency service instructs the provider for configuring the connection of the monitoring device with the CN number or dedicated monitoring number .

For example the agency service transmits instructions to the provider based on the configuration options specified for a monitoring party identified for the monitoring device from the mapping table. In turn the provider configures the connection based on the instructions such that the monitoring device only receives audio from e.g. the subject and negotiator and or other monitoring devices in a same and or different monitoring party and transmits audio to e.g. monitoring devices in the same and or different monitoring party and or another monitoring party the appropriate devices as specified by the agency service . Thus for example the monitoring device may receive live audio communications associated with the crisis negotiation between the negotiator and the subject and or other monitoring devices in a same or different monitoring party according to party assignment.

In some embodiments the instructions cause the provider to configure the connection with outgoing communication capabilities enabled such that for example the monitoring device may participate in interparty communications. The instructions may further cause the provider to disable outgoing communication capabilities for the monitoring device to prevent transmission of audio to devices such as the negotiator device subject device and one or more other monitoring devices in a same or different monitoring party. To continue monitoring A the crisis negotiation the monitoring device need only to maintain the configured connection.

In another embodiment the monitoring device connects to the agency service and or appliance for monitoring B the crisis negotiation. The monitoring device may establish the connection using a web browser or monitoring module that retrieves or streams collected data via a monitoring interface on the appliance or agency service e.g. monitoring interface .

In one example embodiment the monitoring device streams audio and or messages in real time from the agency service that are communicated through the CN number. In some embodiments the appliance also supports real time monitoring. In addition the monitoring device may retrieve historical data stored on the appliance to view previously administrated negotiation sessions . For example when a crisis negotiation is complete the session may be replayed on the monitoring device or negotiator device by connecting to the appliance or agency service where the evidence recorded data is stored. However for example if the recording was stopped at any point during the crisis negotiation or the recording was canceled a notification may accompany a timeline indicating the portions of that call that were not recorded.

In some instances the monitoring device receives notifications from the monitoring interface for display in the web browser or with the monitoring module . Example notifications include audio or visual alerts for notifying personnel when the negotiator device ends the crisis negotiation.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the disclosure which is set forth in the following claims.

