---

title: Enzyme assays on a droplet actuator
abstract: The invention is directed to droplet actuator devices and assay methods. The invention includes assay methods of conducting an assay comprising combining a sample with an umbelliferyl derivative, wherein the sample potentially comprises an enzyme capable of cleaving the umbelliferyl derivative and where the umbelliferyl derivative comprises an umbelliferyl core modified with one or more modifying moieties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09574220&OS=09574220&RS=09574220
owner: Advanced Liquid Logic, Inc.
number: 09574220
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150311
---
This application is a continuation of and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 089 070 entitled Assay for B Galactosidase Activity having a filing date of Nov. 25 2103 the application of which is a continuation of and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 738 259 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 592 217 entitled Method of Conducting an Assay having a filing date of Jan. 10 2013 the application of which is a continuation of and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 305 820 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 394 641 entitled Method of Hydrolyzing an Enzymatic Substrate having a filing date of Nov. 29 2011 the application of which is a continuation in part of and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 531 844 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 440 392 entitled Enzymatic Assays for a Droplet Actuator filed on Feb. 26 2010 the application of which is a 371 application of claims priority to and incorporates by reference International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 057959 entitled Enzymatic Assays for a Droplet Actuator International filing date of Mar. 23 2008 the application of which claims priority to and incorporates by reference related provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 60 896 341 entitled Enzymatic Assays for a Droplet Microactuator filed on Mar. 22 2007. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 305 820 is also a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 012 831 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 093 062 entitled Enzymatic Assays Using Umbelliferone Substrates with Cyclodextrins in Droplets in Oil filed Jan. 25 2011 which is a continuation of and incorporates by reference International Patent App. No. PCT US2010 061118 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed Dec. 10 2010 the application of which claims priority to and incorporates by reference related provisional U.S. Patent Applications 61 288 633 entitled MPS II Assay on a Droplet Actuator filed on Dec. 21 2009 61 290 296 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed on Dec. 28 2009 61 325 580 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed on Apr. 19 2010 61 334 376 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed on May 13 2010 61 359 943 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed on Jun. 30 2010 61 378 705 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed on Aug. 31 2010 61 382 564 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed on Sep. 14 2010 61 392 633 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed on Oct. 13 2010 and 61 406 380 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed on Oct. 25 2010. The disclosures of the aforementioned applications are specifically incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under HD062316 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The foregoing statement with respect to government support under HD062316 applies only to those aspects of the invention described and claimed in this application arising out of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 406 380 entitled Enzyme Assays on a Droplet Actuator filed Oct. 25 2010.

The invention generally relates to droplet actuator devices and assay methods. In particular the invention relates to droplet actuator devices and enzymatic assays using umbelliferone substrates with cyclodextrins in droplets in oil.

A droplet actuator may include one or more substrates configured to form a surface or gap for conducting droplet operations. The one or more substrates establish a droplet operations surface or gap for conducting droplet operations and may also include electrodes arrange to conduct the droplet operations. The droplet operations substrate or the gap between the substrates may be coated or filled with a filler fluid that is immiscible with the liquid that forms the droplets.

Droplet actuators are used in a variety of applications including molecular diagnostic assays such as enzymatic assays and immunoassays. In one application enzymatic assays and immunoassays are used as part of a routine testing process to test newborn infants for various genetic disorders. For example enzymatic assays may be used to test for various lysosomal storage diseases LSD galactosemia and biotinidase deficiency BIOT Immunoassays may be used to test for congenital hypothyroidism CH congenital adrenal hyperplasia CAH and cystic fibrosis CF . Current enzymatic assay and immunoassay technologies used in newborn testing are based on 96 well microtiter plate compatible systems. Specimens are punched automatically from a neonatal dried blood spot DBS sample into several plates i.e. one punch for each test to be performed and each plate is manipulated according to a specific assay protocol. Each assay may require a separate laboratory section with a manager one or more technologists and equipment dedicated to the assay. Overall the system is labor intensive although one or more steps are at least partially automated and reagent and equipment costs can be high. Because the current system is labor intensive and costly testing is generally restricted to centralized laboratories and often unavailable in developing countries. Therefore there is a need for new approaches to newborn testing.

The invention provides droplet actuator devices and assay methods for multiplexed newborn testing for metabolic disorders. The methods include among other things droplet based enzymatic assays and immunoassays for testing for metabolic disorders. The invention includes methods and devices for conducting multiple assays for different metabolic disorders on a single droplet actuator as well as multiple assays for the same metabolic disorder using samples from different subjects and or multiple samples from the same subject on a single droplet actuator. In various embodiments the invention includes methods for conducting enzymatic activity assays and or immunoassays in a single fresh blood and or plasma samples and dried blood and or plasma samples.

The invention provides assay methods for detection of one or more i.e. multiplex detection lysosomal storage diseases LSDs on a droplet actuator. In one embodiment the invention provides assay methods for detection of MSP II Hunter s syndrome on a droplet actuator. The methods include among other things droplet based enzymatic assays for iduronate 2 sulfate sulphatase IDS enzyme activity. In certain embodiments the Hunter s assay may be performed at room temperature or at an alternate temperature such as 37 C. In other embodiments the Hunter s assay may be performed for 8 hours or less. The Hunter s assay is a single step homogenous assay that is performed at a single pH i.e. pH 5.0 with a time to result of 8 hours or less.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides an integrated droplet actuator device and methods for performing multiplexed enzymatic assays and immunoassays on a single droplet actuator using a single dried blood spot DBS sample. In one example the integrated droplet actuator device and methods of the invention may be used for multiplexed detection of congenital adrenal hyperplasia CAH congenital hypothyroidism CH cystic fibrosis CF galactosemia and biotinidase deficiency BIOT .

Using digital microfluidics technology sub microliter sized droplets may be manipulated using high speed transport of droplets reliable dispensing rapid mixing dilution and disposal to provide rapid sample to result testing. Because substantially all of the steps in a sample testing protocol are performed on chip automated the risk of operator error is substantially reduced. The flexibility programmability and modular format of the microfluidic platform additional assay protocols i.e. for other disorders may be readily added to an on chip testing panel.

The droplet actuator devices and methods of the invention complement tandem mass spectrometry MS MS testing by multiplexing testing of metabolic disorders that are not suited for MS MS.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides bench based methods for enzymatic detection of Hunter s syndrome and Fabry disease.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a digital microfluidic platform and methods for multiplexed testing for hyperbilirubinemia glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase G6PD deficiency and congenital hypothyroidism CH .

 Activate with reference to one or more electrodes means affecting a change in the electrical state of the one or more electrodes which in the presence of a droplet results in a droplet operation. Activation of an electrode can be accomplished using alternating or direct current. Any suitable voltage may be used. For example an electrode may be activated using a voltage which is greater than about 150 V or greater than about 200 V or greater than about 250 V or from about 275 V to about 375 V or about 300 V. Where alternating current is used any suitable frequency may be employed. For example an electrode may be activated using alternating current having a frequency from about 1 Hz to about 100 Hz or from about 10 Hz to about 60 Hz or from about 20 Hz to about 40 Hz or about 30 Hz.

 Bead with respect to beads on a droplet actuator means any bead or particle that is capable of interacting with a droplet on or in proximity with a droplet actuator. Beads may be any of a wide variety of shapes such as spherical generally spherical egg shaped disc shaped cubical amorphous and other three dimensional shapes. The bead may for example be capable of being subjected to a droplet operation in a droplet on a droplet actuator or otherwise configured with respect to a droplet actuator in a manner which permits a droplet on the droplet actuator to be brought into contact with the bead on the droplet actuator and or off the droplet actuator. Beads may be provided in a droplet in a droplet operations gap or on a droplet operations surface. Beads may be provided in a reservoir that is external to a droplet operations gap or situated apart from a droplet operations surface and the reservoir may be associated with a fluid path that permits a droplet including the beads to be brought into a droplet operations gap or into contact with a droplet operations surface. Beads may be manufactured using a wide variety of materials including for example resins and polymers. The beads may be any suitable size including for example microbeads microparticles nanobeads and nanoparticles. In some cases beads are magnetically responsive in other cases beads are not significantly magnetically responsive. For magnetically responsive beads the magnetically responsive material may constitute substantially all of a bead a portion of a bead or only one component of a bead. The remainder of the bead may include among other things polymeric material coatings and moieties which permit attachment of an assay reagent. Examples of suitable beads include flow cytometry microbeads polystyrene microparticles and nanoparticles functionalized polystyrene microparticles and nanoparticles coated polystyrene microparticles and nanoparticles silica microbeads fluorescent microspheres and nanospheres functionalized fluorescent microspheres and nanospheres coated fluorescent microspheres and nanospheres color dyed microparticles and nanoparticles magnetic microparticles and nanoparticles superparamagnetic microparticles and nanoparticles e.g. DYNABEADS particles available from Invitrogen Group Carlsbad Calif. fluorescent microparticles and nanoparticles coated magnetic microparticles and nanoparticles ferromagnetic microparticles and nanoparticles coated ferromagnetic microparticles and nanoparticles and those described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 20050260686 entitled Multiplex flow assays preferably with magnetic particles as solid phase published on Nov. 24 2005 20030132538 entitled Encapsulation of discrete quanta of fluorescent particles published on Jul. 17 2003 20050118574 entitled Multiplexed Analysis of Clinical Specimens Apparatus and Method published on Jun. 2 2005 20050277197. Entitled Microparticles with Multiple Fluorescent Signals and Methods of Using Same published on Dec. 15 2005 20060159962 entitled Magnetic Microspheres for use in Fluorescence based Applications published on Jul. 20 2006 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference for their teaching concerning beads and magnetically responsive materials and beads. Beads may be pre coupled with a biomolecule or other substance that is able to bind to and form a complex with a biomolecule. Beads may be pre coupled with an antibody protein or antigen DNA RNA probe or any other molecule with an affinity for a desired target. Examples of droplet actuator techniques for immobilizing magnetically responsive beads and or non magnetically responsive beads and or conducting droplet operations protocols using beads are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 639 566 entitled Droplet Based Particle Sorting filed on Dec. 15 2006 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 039 183 entitled Multiplexing Bead Detection in a Single Droplet filed on Mar. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 047 789 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Droplet Operations Using Beads filed on Apr. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 086 183 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods for Manipulating Beads filed on Aug. 5 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 053545 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods Employing Magnetic Beads filed on Feb. 11 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058018 entitled Bead based Multiplexed Analytical Methods and Instrumentation filed on Mar. 24 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058047 Bead Sorting on a Droplet Actuator filed on Mar. 23 2008 and International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Bead characteristics may be employed in the multiplexing aspects of the invention. Examples of beads having characteristics suitable for multiplexing as well as methods of detecting and analyzing signals emitted from such beads may be found in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20080305481 entitled Systems and Methods for Multiplex Analysis of PCR in Real Time published on Dec. 11 2008 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20080151240 Methods and Systems for Dynamic Range Expansion published on Jun. 26 2008 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20070207513 entitled Methods Products and Kits for Identifying an Analyte in a Sample published on Sep. 6 2007 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20070064990 entitled Methods and Systems for Image Data Processing published on Mar. 22 2007 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20060159962 entitled Magnetic Microspheres for use in Fluorescence based Applications published on Jul. 20 2006 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20050277197 entitled Microparticles with Multiple Fluorescent Signals and Methods of Using Same published on Dec. 15 2005 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 20050118574 entitled Multiplexed Analysis of Clinical Specimens Apparatus and Method published on Jun. 2 2005.

 Blood Sample includes whole blood whole blood constituents such as serum or plasma and dried blood spot extracts. The dried blood can be on tissue paper or standard blood collection card or any other suitable substrate that does not eliminate the usefulness of the blood as a sample for the target of interest. The blood may be from the subject and the subject may be a human subject of any age such as an adult infant or a fetus. In the case of a fetus the blood may be from the mother.

 Droplet means a volume of liquid on a droplet actuator. A droplet may be at least partially bounded by a filler fluid. For example a droplet may be completely surrounded by a filler fluid or may be bounded by filler fluid and one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. As another example a droplet may be bounded by filler fluid one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator and or the atmosphere. As yet another example a droplet may be bounded by filler fluid and the atmosphere. Droplets may for example be aqueous or non aqueous or may be mixtures or emulsions including aqueous and non aqueous components. A 1 droplet may be about 300 nl. Droplets may take a wide variety of shapes non limiting examples include generally disc shaped slug shaped truncated sphere ellipsoid spherical partially compressed sphere hemispherical ovoid cylindrical combinations of such shapes and various shapes formed during droplet operations such as merging or splitting or formed as a result of contact of such shapes with one or more surfaces of a droplet actuator. For examples of droplet fluids that may be subjected to droplet operations using the approach of the invention see International Patent Application No. PCT US 06 47486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006. In various embodiments a droplet may include a biological sample such as whole blood lymphatic fluid serum plasma sweat tear saliva sputum cerebrospinal fluid amniotic fluid seminal fluid vaginal excretion serous fluid synovial fluid pericardial fluid peritoneal fluid pleural fluid transudates exudates cystic fluid bile urine gastric fluid intestinal fluid fecal samples liquids containing single or multiple cells liquids containing organelles fluidized tissues fluidized organisms liquids containing multi celled organisms biological swabs and biological washes. Moreover a droplet may include a reagent such as water deionized water saline solutions acidic solutions basic solutions detergent solutions and or buffers. Other examples of droplet contents include reagents such as a reagent for a biochemical protocol such as a nucleic acid amplification protocol an affinity based assay protocol an enzymatic assay protocol a sequencing protocol and or a protocol for analyses of biological fluids. In various embodiments the droplets may include surfactants to improve droplet operations. It will be appreciated that where specific surfactants are mentioned these may readily be supplemented or replaced with other similar surfactants such as surfactants having similar HLB profile.

 Droplet Actuator means a device for manipulating droplets. For examples of droplet actuators see Pamula et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 132 entitled Apparatus for Manipulating Droplets by Electrowetting Based Techniques issued on Jun. 28 2005 Pamula et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 343 284 entitled Apparatuses and Methods for Manipulating Droplets on a Printed Circuit Board filed on filed on Jan. 30 2006 Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 Shenderov U.S. Pat. No. 6 773 566 entitled Electrostatic Actuators for Microfluidics and Methods for Using Same issued on Aug. 10 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 565 727 entitled Actuators for Microfluidics Without Moving Parts issued on Jan. 24 2000 Kim and or Shah et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 343 261 entitled Electrowetting driven Micropumping filed on Jan. 27 2003 Ser. No. 11 275 668 entitled Method and Apparatus for Promoting the Complete Transfer of Liquid Drops from a Nozzle filed on Jan. 23 2006 Ser. No. 11 460 188 entitled Small Object Moving on Printed Circuit Board filed on Jan. 23 2006 Ser. No. 12 465 935 entitled Method for Using Magnetic Particles in Droplet Microfluidics filed on May 14 2009 and Ser. No. 12 513 157 entitled Method and Apparatus for Real time Feedback Control of Electrical Manipulation of Droplets on Chip filed on Apr. 30 2009 Velev U.S. Pat. No. 7 547 380 entitled Droplet Transportation Devices and Methods Having a Fluid Surface issued on Jun. 16 2009 Sterling et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 163 612 entitled Method Apparatus and Article for Microfluidic Control via Electrowetting for Chemical Biochemical and Biological Assays and the Like issued on Jan. 16 2007 Becker and Gascoyne et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 641 779 entitled Method and Apparatus for Programmable fluidic Processing issued on Jan. 5 2010 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 977 033 entitled Method and Apparatus for Programmable fluidic Processing issued on Dec. 20 2005 Decre et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 328 979 entitled System for Manipulation of a Body of Fluid issued on Feb. 12 2008 Yamakawa et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20060039823 entitled Chemical Analysis Apparatus published on Feb. 23 2006 Wu International Patent Pub. No. WO 2009 003184 entitled Digital Microfluidics Based Apparatus for Heat exchanging Chemical Processes published on Dec. 31 2008 Fouillet et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20090192044 entitled Electrode Addressing Method published on Jul. 30 2009 Fouillet et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 052 244 entitled Device for Displacement of Small Liquid Volumes Along a Micro catenary Line by Electrostatic Forces issued on May 30 2006 Marchand et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20080124252 entitled Droplet Microreactor published on May 29 2008 Adachi et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20090321262 entitled Liquid Transfer Device published on Dec. 31 2009 Roux et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20050179746 entitled Device for Controlling the Displacement of a Drop Between two or Several Solid Substrates published on Aug. 18 2005 Dhindsa et al. Virtual Electrowetting Channels Electronic Liquid Transport with Continuous Channel Functionality 10 832 836 2010 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference along with their priority documents. Certain droplet actuators will include one or more substrates arranged with a gap therebetween and electrodes associated with e.g. layered on attached to and or embedded in the one or more substrates and arranged to conduct one or more droplet operations. For example certain droplet actuators will include a base or bottom substrate droplet operations electrodes associated with the substrate one or more dielectric layers atop the substrate and or electrodes and optionally one or more hydrophobic layers atop the substrate dielectric layers and or the electrodes forming a droplet operations surface. A top substrate may also be provided which is separated from the droplet operations surface by a gap commonly referred to as a droplet operations gap. Various electrode arrangements on the top and or bottom substrates are discussed in the above referenced patents and applications and certain novel electrode arrangements are discussed in the description of the invention. During droplet operations it is preferred that droplets remain in continuous contact or frequent contact with a ground or reference electrode. A ground or reference electrode may be associated with the top substrate facing the gap the bottom substrate facing the gap in the gap. Where electrodes are provided on both substrates electrical contacts for coupling the electrodes to a droplet actuator instrument for controlling or monitoring the electrodes may be associated with one or both plates. In some cases electrodes on one substrate are electrically coupled to the other substrate so that only one substrate is in contact with the droplet actuator. In one embodiment a conductive material e.g. an epoxy such as MASTER BOND Polymer System EP79 available from Master Bond Inc. Hackensack N.J. provides the electrical connection between electrodes on one substrate and electrical paths on the other substrates e.g. a ground electrode on a top substrate may be coupled to an electrical path on a bottom substrate by such a conductive material. Where multiple substrates are used a spacer may be provided between the substrates to determine the height of the gap therebetween and define dispensing reservoirs. The spacer height may for example be from about 5 m to about 600 m or about 100 m to about 400 m or about 200 m to about 350 m or about 250 m to about 300 m or about 275 m. The spacer may for example be formed of a layer of projections form the top or bottom substrates and or a material inserted between the top and bottom substrates. One or more openings may be provided in the one or more substrates for forming a fluid path through which liquid may be delivered into the droplet operations gap. The one or more openings may in some cases be aligned for interaction with one or more electrodes e.g. aligned such that liquid flowed through the opening will come into sufficient proximity with one or more droplet operations electrodes to permit a droplet operation to be effected by the droplet operations electrodes using the liquid. The base or bottom and top substrates may in some cases be formed as one integral component. One or more reference electrodes may be provided on the base or bottom and or top substrates and or in the gap. Examples of reference electrode arrangements are provided in the above referenced patents and patent applications. In various embodiments the manipulation of droplets by a droplet actuator may be electrode mediated e.g. electrowetting mediated or dielectrophoresis mediated or Coulombic force mediated. Examples of other techniques for controlling droplet operations that may be used in the droplet actuators of the invention include using devices that induce hydrodynamic fluidic pressure such as those that operate on the basis of mechanical principles e.g. external syringe pumps pneumatic membrane pumps vibrating membrane pumps vacuum devices centrifugal forces piezoelectric ultrasonic pumps and acoustic forces electrical or magnetic principles e.g. electroosmotic flow electrokinetic pumps ferrofluidic plugs electrohydrodynamic pumps attraction or repulsion using magnetic forces and magnetohydrodynamic pumps thermodynamic principles e.g. gas bubble generation phase change induced volume expansion other kinds of surface wetting principles e.g. electrowetting and optoelectrowetting as well as chemically thermally structurally and radioactively induced surface tension gradients gravity surface tension e.g. capillary action electrostatic forces e.g. electroosmotic flow centrifugal flow substrate disposed on a compact disc and rotated magnetic forces e.g. oscillating ions causes flow magnetohydrodynamic forces and vacuum or pressure differential. In certain embodiments combinations of two or more of the foregoing techniques may be employed to conduct a droplet operation in a droplet actuator of the invention. Similarly one or more of the foregoing may be used to deliver liquid into a droplet operations gap e.g. from a reservoir in another device or from an external reservoir of the droplet actuator e.g. a reservoir associated with a droplet actuator substrate and a fluid path from the reservoir into the droplet operations gap . Droplet operations surfaces of certain droplet actuators of the invention may be made from hydrophobic materials or may be coated or treated to make them hydrophobic. For example in some cases some portion or all of the droplet operations surfaces may be derivatized with low surface energy materials or chemistries e.g. by deposition or using in situ synthesis using compounds such as poly or per fluorinated compounds in solution or polymerizable monomers. Examples include TEFLON AF available from DuPont Wilmington Del. members of the cytop family of materials coatings in the FLUOROPEL family of hydrophobic and superhydrophobic coatings available from Cytonix Corporation Beltsville Md. silane coatings fluorosilane coatings hydrophobic phosphonate derivatives e.g. those sold by Aculon Inc and NOVEC electronic coatings available from 3M Company St. Paul Minn. and other fluorinated monomers for plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD . In some cases the droplet operations surface may include a hydrophobic coating having a thickness ranging from about 10 nm to about 1 000 nm. Moreover in some embodiments the top substrate of the droplet actuator includes an electrically conducting organic polymer which is then coated with a hydrophobic coating or otherwise treated to make the droplet operations surface hydrophobic. For example the electrically conducting organic polymer that is deposited onto a plastic substrate may be poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS . Other examples of electrically conducting organic polymers and alternative conductive layers are described in Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US2010 040705 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. One or both substrates may be fabricated using a printed circuit board PCB glass indium tin oxide ITO coated glass or polymer and or semiconductor materials as the substrate. When the substrate is ITO coated glass the ITO coating is preferably a thickness in the range of about 20 to about 200 nm preferably about 50 to about 150 nm or about 75 to about 125 nm or about 100 nm. In some cases the top and or bottom substrate includes a PCB substrate that is coated with a dielectric such as a polyimide dielectric which may in some cases also be coated or otherwise treated to make the droplet operations surface hydrophobic. When the substrate includes a PCB the following materials are examples of suitable materials MITSUI BN 300 available from MITSUI Chemicals America Inc. San Jose Calif. ARLON 11N available from Arlon Inc Santa Ana Calif. . NELCO N4000 6 and N5000 30 32 available from Park Electrochemical Corp. Melville N.Y. ISOLA FR406 available from Isola Group Chandler Ariz. especially IS620 fluoropolymer family suitable for fluorescence detection since it has low background fluorescence polyimide family polyester polyethylene naphthalate polycarbonate polyetheretherketone liquid crystal polymer cyclo olefin copolymer COC cyclo olefin polymer COP aramid THERMOUNT nonwoven aramid reinforcement available from DuPont Wilmington Del. NOMEX brand fiber available from DuPont Wilmington Del. and paper. Various materials are also suitable for use as the dielectric component of the substrate. Examples include vapor deposited dielectric such as PARYLENE C especially on glass and PARYLENE N available from Parylene Coating Services Inc. Katy Tex. TEFLON AF coatings cytop soldermasks such as liquid photoimageable soldermasks e.g. on PCB like TAIYO PSR4000 series TAIYO PSR and AUS series available from Taiyo America Inc. Carson City Nev. good thermal characteristics for applications involving thermal control and PROBIMER 8165 good thermal characteristics for applications involving thermal control available from Huntsman Advanced Materials Americas Inc. Los Angeles Calif. dry film soldermask such as those in the VACREL dry film soldermask line available from DuPont Wilmington Del. film dielectrics such as polyimide film e.g. KAPTON polyimide film available from DuPont Wilmington Del. polyethylene and fluoropolymers e.g. FEP polytetrafluoroethylene polyester polyethylene naphthalate cyclo olefin copolymer COC cyclo olefin polymer COP any other PCB substrate material listed above black matrix resin and polypropylene. Droplet transport voltage and frequency may be selected for performance with reagents used in specific assay protocols. Design parameters may be varied e.g. number and placement of on chip reservoirs number of independent electrode connections size volume of different reservoirs placement of magnets bead washing zones electrode size inter electrode pitch and gap height between top and bottom substrates may be varied for use with specific reagents protocols droplet volumes etc. In some cases a substrate of the invention may derivatized with low surface energy materials or chemistries e.g. using deposition or in situ synthesis using poly or per fluorinated compounds in solution or polymerizable monomers. Examples include TEFLON AF coatings and FLUOROPEL coatings for dip or spray coating and other fluorinated monomers for plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD . Additionally in some cases some portion or all of the droplet operations surface may be coated with a substance for reducing background noise such as background fluorescence from a PCB substrate. For example the noise reducing coating may include a black matrix resin such as the black matrix resins available from Toray industries Inc. Japan. Electrodes of a droplet actuator may be controlled by a controller or a processor which is itself provided as part of a system which may include processing functions as well as data and software storage and input and output capabilities.

 Droplet operation means any manipulation of a droplet on a droplet actuator. A droplet operation may for example include loading a droplet into the droplet actuator dispensing one or more droplets from a source droplet splitting separating or dividing a droplet into two or more droplets transporting a droplet from one location to another in any direction merging or combining two or more droplets into a single droplet diluting a droplet mixing a droplet agitating a droplet deforming a droplet retaining a droplet in position incubating a droplet heating a droplet vaporizing a droplet cooling a droplet disposing of a droplet transporting a droplet out of a droplet actuator other droplet operations described herein and or any combination of the foregoing. The terms merge merging combine combining and the like are used to describe the creation of one droplet from two or more droplets. It should be understood that when such a term is used in reference to two or more droplets any combination of droplet operations that are sufficient to result in the combination of the two or more droplets into one droplet may be used. For example merging droplet A with droplet B can be achieved by transporting droplet A into contact with a stationary droplet B transporting droplet B into contact with a stationary droplet A or transporting droplets A and B into contact with each other. The terms splitting separating and dividing are not intended to imply any particular outcome with respect to volume of the resulting droplets i.e. the volume of the resulting droplets can be the same or different or number of resulting droplets the number of resulting droplets may be 2 3 4 5 or more . The term mixing refers to droplet operations which result in more homogenous distribution of one or more components within a droplet. Examples of loading droplet operations include microdialysis loading pressure assisted loading robotic loading passive loading and pipette loading. Droplet operations may be electrode mediated. In some cases droplet operations are further facilitated by the use of hydrophilic and or hydrophobic regions on surfaces and or by physical obstacles. For examples of droplet operations see the patents and patent applications cited above under the definition of droplet actuator. Impedance or capacitance sensing or imaging techniques may sometimes be used to determine or confirm the outcome of a droplet operation. Examples of such techniques are described in Sturmer et al. International Patent Pub. No. WO 2008 101194 entitled Capacitance Detection in a Droplet Actuator published on Aug. 21 2008 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Generally speaking the sensing or imaging techniques may be used to confirm the presence or absence of a droplet at a specific electrode. For example the presence of a dispensed droplet at the destination electrode following a droplet dispensing operation confirms that the droplet dispensing operation was effective. Similarly the presence of a droplet at a detection spot at an appropriate step in an assay protocol may confirm that a previous set of droplet operations has successfully produced a droplet for detection. Droplet transport time can be quite fast. For example in various embodiments transport of a droplet from one electrode to the next may exceed about 1 sec or about 0.1 sec or about 0.01 sec or about 0.001 sec. In one embodiment the electrode is operated in AC mode but is switched to DC mode for imaging. It is helpful for conducting droplet operations for the footprint area of droplet to be similar to electrowetting area in other words 1 2 3 droplets are usefully controlled operated using 1 2 and 3 electrodes respectively. If the droplet footprint is greater than the number of electrodes available for conducting a droplet operation at a given time the difference between the droplet size and the number of electrodes should typically not be greater than 1 in other words a 2 droplet is usefully controlled using 1 electrode and a 3 droplet is usefully controlled using 2 electrodes. When droplets include beads it is useful for droplet size to be equal to the number of electrodes controlling the droplet e.g. transporting the droplet.

 Filler fluid means a fluid associated with a droplet operations substrate of a droplet actuator which fluid is sufficiently immiscible with a droplet phase to render the droplet phase subject to electrode mediated droplet operations. For example the gap of a droplet actuator may be filled with a filler fluid. The filler fluid may for example be a low viscosity oil such as silicone oil or an alkane filler fluid such as hexadecane filler fluid. The filler fluid may fill the entire gap of the droplet actuator or may coat one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. Filler fluids may be conductive or non conductive. Filler fluids may for example be doped with surfactants or other additives. For example additives may be selected to improve droplet operations and or reduce loss of reagent or target substances from droplets formation of microdroplets cross contamination between droplets contamination of droplet actuator surfaces degradation of droplet actuator materials etc. Composition of the filler fluid including surfactant doping may be selected for performance with reagents used in the specific assay protocols and effective interaction or non interaction with droplet actuator materials. Examples of filler fluids and filler fluid formulations suitable for use with the invention are provided in Srinivasan et al International Patent Pub. Nos. WO 2010 027894 entitled Droplet Actuators Modified Fluids and Methods published on Mar. 11 2010 and WO 2009 021173 entitled Use of Additives for Enhancing Droplet Operations published on Feb. 12 2009 Sista et al. International Patent Pub. No. WO 2008 098236 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods Employing Magnetic Beads published on Aug. 14 2008 and Monroe et al. U.S. Patent Publication No. 20080283414 entitled Electrowetting Devices filed on May 17 2007 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as well as the other patents and patent applications cited herein.

 Immobilize with respect to magnetically responsive beads means that the beads are substantially restrained in position in a droplet or in filler fluid on a droplet actuator. For example in one embodiment immobilized beads are sufficiently restrained in position in a droplet to permit execution of a droplet splitting operation yielding one droplet with substantially all of the beads and one droplet substantially lacking in the beads.

 Magnetically responsive means responsive to a magnetic field. Magnetically responsive beads include or are composed of magnetically responsive materials. Examples of magnetically responsive materials include paramagnetic materials ferromagnetic materials ferrimagnetic materials and metamagnetic materials. Examples of suitable paramagnetic materials include iron nickel and cobalt as well as metal oxides such as FeO BaFeO CoO NiO MnO CrO and CoMnP.

 Washing with respect to washing a bead means reducing the amount and or concentration of one or more substances in contact with the bead or exposed to the bead from a droplet in contact with the bead. The reduction in the amount and or concentration of the substance may be partial substantially complete or even complete. The substance may be any of a wide variety of substances examples include target substances for further analysis and unwanted substances such as components of a sample contaminants and or excess reagent. In some embodiments a washing operation begins with a starting droplet in contact with a magnetically responsive bead where the droplet includes an initial amount and initial concentration of a substance. The washing operation may proceed using a variety of droplet operations. The washing operation may yield a droplet including the magnetically responsive bead where the droplet has a total amount and or concentration of the substance which is less than the initial amount and or concentration of the substance. Examples of suitable washing techniques are described in Pamula et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 439 014 entitled Droplet Based Surface Modification and Washing granted on Oct. 21 2008 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The terms top bottom over under and on are used throughout the description with reference to the relative positions of components of the droplet actuator such as relative positions of top and bottom substrates of the droplet actuator. It will be appreciated that the droplet actuator is functional regardless of its orientation in space.

When a liquid in any form e.g. a droplet or a continuous body whether moving or stationary is described as being on at or over an electrode array matrix or surface such liquid could be either in direct contact with the electrode array matrix surface or could be in contact with one or more layers or films that are interposed between the liquid and the electrode array matrix surface.

When a droplet is described as being on or loaded on a droplet actuator it should be understood that the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates using the droplet actuator to conduct one or more droplet operations on the droplet the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates sensing of a property of or a signal from the droplet and or the droplet has been subjected to a droplet operation on the droplet actuator.

The invention provides droplet actuator devices and methods of conducting testing. For example the methods of testing include methods of testing samples for activity of certain enzymes. In one embodiment the enzymes tested are enzymes associated with metabolic disorders. The testing may be associated with screening programs e.g. screening newborn infants for metabolic disorders diagnostics monitoring screening of modified enzymes or for any other useful purpose.

The invention includes methods and devices for conducting multiple assays for different metabolic disorders on a single droplet actuator as well as multiple assays for the same metabolic disorder using samples from different subjects and or multiple samples from the same subject on a single droplet actuator.

The invention provides modified assays for detecting altered enzymatic activity. Among the enzyme assays which may be conducted according to the methods of the invention are those methods useful in the diagnosis of defects in glycosidases such as lysosomal storage diseases. Enzymatic indicators of lysosomal storage diseases can be identified using droplet based assays on a droplet actuator. Assays of the appropriate glycosidase activity can be used to detect altered activity of a particular glycosidase which may be an indicator of a particular lysosomal storage disease. A deficiency in .alpha. glucosidase activity for example is a diagnostic indicator of Pompe disease. Similarly a deficiency in .alpha. galactosidase activity is a diagnostic indicator of Fabry disease. Multiple diseases and or multiple samples can be tested simultaneously on a single droplet actuator.

In some embodiments the invention provides diagnostic techniques for metabolic disorders that result from defects in lysosomal function. Examples include without limitation activator deficiency GM2 gangliosidosis alpha mannosidosis aspartylglucosaminuria cholesteryl ester storage disease chronic hexosaminidase a deficiency cystinosis Danon disease Fabry disease Farber disease fucosidosis galactosialidosis Gaucher disease Type I Type II Type III GM1 gangliosidosis infantile late infantile juvenile adult chronic I cell disease mucolipidosis II infantile free sialic acid storage disease ISSD juvenile hexosaminidase A deficiency Krabbe disease infantile onset late onset metachromatic leukodystrophy mucopolysaccharidoses disorders pseudo hurler polydystrophy mucolipidosis IIIA PSI Hurler syndrome MPSI Scheie syndrome MPS I Hurler Scheie syndrome MPS II Hunter syndrome Sanfilippo syndrome Type A MPS III A Sanfilippo syndrome Type B MPS III B Sanfilippo syndrome Type C MPS III C Sanfilippo syndrome Type D MPS III D Morquio type A MPS IVA morquio Type B MPS IVB MPS IX hyaluronidase deficiency MPS VI Maroteaux Lamy MPS VII Sly syndrome mucolipidosis I Sialidosis mucolipidosis IIIC mucolipidosis type IV Maroteaux Lamy multiple sulfatase deficiency Niemann Pick disease Type A Type B Type C Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses CLN6 disease Atypical late infantile late onset variant early juvenile Batten Spielmeyer Vogt juvenile NCL CLN3 disease Finnish variant late infantile CLN5 Jansky Bielschowsky disease late infantile CLN2 TPP1 disease Kufs adult onset NCL CLN4 disease northern epilepsy variant late infantile CLN8 Santavuori Haltia infantile CLN1 PPT disease beta mannosidosis Pompe disease glycogen storage disease type II Pycnodysostosis Sandhoff disease GM2 gangliosidosis Adult Onset Infantile Juvenile Schindler disease Salla disease sialic acid storage disease Tay Sachs GM2 gangliosidosis and Wolman disease. Various enzyme related conditions including without limitation lysosomal storage diseases are described in the Merck Manual 18 ed. Apr. 7 2006 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the invention provides assay methods for detection of MSP II Hunter s syndrome on a droplet actuator. The methods include among other things droplet based enzymatic assays for iduronate 2 sulfate sulphatase IDS enzyme activity. In certain embodiments the Hunter s assay may be performed at room temperature or at an alternate temperature such as 37 C. In other embodiments the Hunter s assay may be performed for 8 hours or less. The Hunter s assay is a single step homogenous assay that is performed at a single pH i.e. pH 5.0 with a time to result of 8 hours or less.

In an embodiment the invention provides assay methods for detection of one or more diseases related to insufficient quantity or activity of a specific enzyme or enzymes such as Hunter s Gaucher and Niemann Pick diseases Pompe and Fabry diseases and Morquio B syndrome on a droplet actuator.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides an integrated droplet actuator device and methods for performing multiplexed enzymatic assays and immunoassays on a single droplet actuator using a single dried blood spot DBS sample. In one example the integrated droplet actuator device and methods of the invention may be used for one or more of congenital adrenal hyperplasia CAH congenital hypothyroidism CH cystic fibrosis CF galactosemia and biotinidase deficiency BIOT .

It will be appreciated that while the methods of the invention are primarily directed at droplet based testing using microfluidic devices or droplet actuators the invention also provides novel chemistries that may be conducted using manual techniques pipetting robotics or other devices or techniques.

The invention also provides techniques for conducting enzymatic screening in droplets associated with surrounded by or otherwise in contact with an immiscible phase such as an oil phase such as a silicone oil phase. For example the invention provides for the use of relatively lipophilic signal molecules such as 4 MU and its analogs in solution with molecules that associate with and increase retention of the signal molecules in the aqueous phase. Examples include cyclodextrins cyclic peptides cyclic oligonucleotides crown ethers cyclic polymers and various conjugates and combinations of the foregoing. Suitable signal retaining molecules can be selected by screening for molecules that result in greater retention of signal in their presence than in their absence.

The invention also provides novel substrates for conducting enzymatic assays that exhibit improved aqueous solubility. Such molecules are particularly useful in conducting enzymatic screening in droplets surrounded by or in contact with an immiscible phase such as an oil phase such as a silicone oil phase because less signal is lost to the oil phase. Examples of modified substrates described herein are 4 MU and HMU molecules modified to add moieties that improve their aqueous solubility without significantly diminishing their fluorescence or eliminating their suitability as an enzyme substrate. Preferred modified substrates are those which retain sufficient fluorescence and exhibit sufficient water solubility to provide greater signal under the same assay conditions relative to the corresponding 4 MU or HMU substrates in particular where the assay is conducted in a droplet surrounded by or in contact with an immiscible phase such as an oil phase such as a silicone oil phase.

The invention provides a two step enzymatic assay. The assay may be performed in a standard laboratory setting. In one embodiment it may have about a 24 hour turn around time. In another embodiment it may have a turn around time of less than or about 12 hours. In yet another embodiment it may have a turn around time of less than or about 6 hours. Blood samples are obtained from a subject and spotted onto a solid medium such as filter paper dried and sent to a central laboratory. Because the blood samples are spotted onto a solid medium and dried they must be reconstituted before analysis a step that requires dilution of the sample into a suitable liquid medium. There is a need for an improved Hunter s assay that provides for a rapid single step protocol that may be used on fresh and or dried blood samples i.e. whole blood samples plasma samples . Hunter s syndrome is caused by a reduction or absence of the enzyme iduronate 2 sulfate sulphatase IDS . shows a flow diagram of an enzymatic assay protocol 100 for Hunter s syndrome. The assay may be performed using a microtiter plate based assay and microtiter plate reader e.g. Biotek KC4 plate reader . The assay for Hunter s syndrome uses 4 methylumbelliferyl L iduronide 2 sulfate MU IdoA 2S as a substrate. The assay is a two enzyme two step assay where IDS first acts on the MU IdoA 2S substrate fluid to hydrolyze the sulfates yielding a 4 MU IdoA intermediate Reaction 1 . A secondary enzyme L iduronidase acts on the sulfate free intermediate 4 MU IdoA to release the 4 methylumbelliferone 4 MU generating a fluorescent signal Reaction 2 . In the absence of active IDS the 4 MU IdoA intermediate is not formed and no fluorescent signal is produced. Reactions 1 and 2 are performed at different pHs pH 5.0 and pH 3.5 respectively.

The L iduronidase or any active iduronidase may for example be partially purified from bovine testis or rabbit liver and may introduce significant concentrations of contaminating sulphatases into the reaction. To inactivate contaminating sulphatases in the L iduronidase extracts a bolus of phosphate citric acid buffer Mcllvain s buffer is added to the reaction prior to the second enzymatic reaction. Purified or synthetically produced L iduronidase or analogues or derivatives with similar activity may be used as alternatives to purified L iduronidase.

Add 200 L stop buffer sodium carbonate pH 10.1 0.01 Tween 20 solution available from Promega Corporation Madison Wis. to all samples and read fluorescence of 4 MU.

4MU fluid substrates may be replaced or supplemented with 4 trifluoromethylumbelliferyl substrates. For example 4 trifluoromethylumbelliferyl glycosides may be used as substrates for the assay of LSD hydrolyases sulfatases etc. . The 4 trifluoromethylumbelliferone leaving group exhibits a greater signal and the signal is shifted more to the red when compared to 4 methylumbelliferone.

In another embodiment the invention provides a droplet actuator based assay for Hunter s syndrome. The assay may be a homogeneous assay that uses purified recombinant iduronidase. Because purified recombinant iduronidase is used contaminating sulphatases from partially purified lysosmal iduronidase from bovine testis i.e. LEBT solution are not present and the addition of Mcllvains phosphate citric acid buffer Pi Ci buffer is not required. The Hunter s assay is adapted for pH sample concentration and iduronidase enzyme activity. The substrate MU IdoA 2S and the recombinant iduronidase are added to the diluted plasma sample at the same time and incubated together for the entire reaction at for example 25 C. room temperature . The droplet actuator based Hunter s assay is a homogeneous single step assay that is performed without requiring a substrate change in pH.

Sample droplets and reagent droplets for use in conducting the enzymatic assays may be dispensed and or combined according to appropriate assay protocols using droplet operations on a droplet actuator. Incubation of assay droplets including temperature adjustments as needed may also be performed on a droplet actuator. Further detection of signals from assay droplets such as detection of fluorescence may be conducted while the droplet is present on the droplet actuator. Further each of these processes may be conducted while the droplet is partially or completely surrounded by a filler fluid on the droplet actuator.

In some embodiments certain assay steps may be conducted outside of a droplet actuator and certain assay steps may be conducted on a droplet actuator. For example in some embodiments sample and reagents may be prepared outside the droplet actuator and combined incubated and detected on the droplet actuator.

Anions such as chloride sulfate and phosphate inherently present in a plasma sample are inhibitors of sulphatase activity e.g. iduronate 2 sulfate sulphatase IDS . For example at 30 mM chloride IDS activity is inhibited by 50 and at 250 mM chloride IDS activity is completely inhibited. A plasma sample may have a chloride concentration of 150 mM a concentration that may reduce the signal output in a Hunter s assay. The amount of chloride present in a plasma sample may for example be reduced by dilution of the sample with a suitable liquid such as water. Anions e.g. chloride sulfate and phosphate present in a plasma sample may also be reduced by precipitation with lead acetate Pb acetate .

In one example the digital microfluidic protocol for testing plasma sample dilutions included the following steps 

Referring to the maximum separation of fluorescence signal between the normal and affected plasma samples was observed at a dilution of 1 4. Because one droplet of plasma sample was mixed with one droplet of the substrate fluid the final effective dilution of the plasma sample is 1 8. The chloride concentration at this dilution has a minimal impact on the iduraonate 2 sulfate sulphatase activity.

In various embodiments the plasma blood sample is diluted from about 1 2 to about 1 15 plasma buffer or from any of about 1 2 1 3 1 4 1 5 1 6 or 1 7 to any of about 1 8 1 9 1 10 1 11 1 12 1 13 1 14 or 1 15 plasma buffer. In other embodiments the plasma blood sample is diluted to at least 1 2 plasma buffer to at least 1 3 plasma buffer to at least 1 4 plasma buffer to at least 1 5 plasma buffer to at least 1 6 plasma buffer to at least 1 7 plasma buffer to at least 1 8 plasma buffer.

Reagent solutions were prepared outside a droplet actuator i.e. on bench and the experiments were performed on a droplet actuator using a digital microfluidic protocol such as the protocol of .

The stability of recombinant iduronidase activity may be sufficiently increased by incorporation of a carrier protein such as bovine serum albumin BSA into the substrate fluid.

Table 1 shows the relative fluorescence of the iduronidase standard curve at t 1 h incubation after the addition of stop buffer.

Plasma samples 2 10 normal and 2 10 Hunter were analyzed on two different days. Referring to plot of on day 1 a first aliquot of normal and Hunter patient samples were analyzed on a first droplet actuator and instrument. Referring to plot of on day 2 a second aliquot of normal and Hunter patient samples were analyzed on a second droplet actuator and instrument. The assays on day 1 and day 2 were performed by different operators.

Referring again to plot of and plot of at an incubation time of t 8 h there is a significant separation in the fluorescence signal between a Hunter patient s plasma sample and a normal plasma sample. The fluorescence signals for normal samples analyzed on day 1 and day 2 are consistent indicating stability in the assay protocol. In plots and the thick solid line represents the mean of all the readings. In plots and the error bars represent the standard deviation among the readings. All data points for the Hunter affected samples overlapped one another.

Because there is about a 20 100 fold separation in the fluorescence signal between a Hunter patient s plasma sample and a normal plasma sample the time to result and throughput of the modified Hunter s assay may be significantly increased further. In one embodiment the overall incubation time for the assay may be significantly reduced to less than about 12 8 6 4 or 2 hours. In another embodiment the time to result of the Hunter assay may be reduced by performing the reaction at 37 C.

Hunter s assays may be performed in a central laboratory on a dried blood spot DBS sample. To evaluate to efficacy of the droplet actuator based Hunter assay on dried samples plasma samples fresh blood and plasma from fresh blood were spotted on diameter filter paper and air dried.

Frozen plasma samples n 10 affected and n 10 normal were thawed and 1.4 L of the sample was spotted onto filter paper and air dried for about 3 hours. Each DBS was placed in a separate centrifuge tube and stored at 20 C.

Fresh whole blood was collected in a lithium heparin tube. Whole blood 3.1 L was spotted onto filter paper and air dried for about 3 hours. Plasma was prepared from the blood sample by centrifugation and spotted onto filter paper and air dried for about 3 hours. Each DBS and DPS was placed in a separate centrifuge tube.

Samples were extracted from the filter paper using water containing extraction buffer which may include a surfactant such as 0.1 Tween 20. Dried plasma spots from frozen plasma samples n 10 affected and n 10 normal and plasma obtained from fresh blood samples were extracted in 40 L and 100 L water containing 0.1 Tween 20. DBS prepared from fresh blood were extracted in 100 L and 150 L water containing 0.1 Tween 20. All samples were incubated for 30 minutes with agitation. The tubes were centrifuged to deposit the filter paper at the bottom of the tube and the sample extracts were transferred into sample reservoirs on a droplet actuator. All the extracts were assayed for MPS II Hunter s syndrome along with fresh plasma obtained from whole blood. The digital microfluidic protocol for testing DBS and DPS samples was as described in reference to . The data is shown in Table 2.

The data from Table 2 clearly shows that there is separation between a Hunter patient DPS and a normal DPS. The extracts from DPS and DBS prepared from fresh whole blood gave similar fluorescence values using 100 L extraction volumes. Assay on fresh plasma prepared from whole blood and diluted 1 4 using water was used as a positive control. The fluorescence signal obtained from fresh plasma was within the range as the fluorescence signals obtained from plasma samples in .

To examine the effect of temperature on the Hunter assay the assay referring to the protocol of was performed at 37 C. with an incubation time of 8 hours. Plasma samples were diluted 1 4 as described in reference to . Archived DBS samples were extracted in 150 L of water containing 0.1 Tween 20 as described in reference to Table 2. The data is shown in Table 3. A clear separation in fluorescence signal is observed between Hunter affected plasma samples and normal plasma samples. The fluorescence signal from archived DBS are also increased compared to Hunter affected samples and are comparable to the signal from fresh DBS.

To examine the effect of extraction volume on the Hunter assay archived normal DBS 1264N 1265N and fresh normal DBS were extracted in 50 100 or 150 L of water containing 0.1 Tween 20. The samples were analyzed on a droplet actuator using a digital microfluidic protocol such as the protocol of .

The invention provides assay methods for detection of Gaucher and Niemann Pick diseases on a droplet actuator. Gaucher s disease and Niemann Pick s disease are caused by deficient activity of the lysosomal enzymes acid D glucosidase and acid sphingomyelinase respectively. In one embodiment the invention provides methods for a droplet based enzymatic assay for acid D glucosidase activity. For example a multifluoroethylumbelliferyl D glucoside such as a 4 pentafluoroethylumbelliferyl D glucoside may be used as a substrate fluid in a droplet based enzymatic assay for acid D glucosidase enzyme activity. The increased number of fluorines makes the substrate fluid more labile to hydrolysis. The excitation emission wavelengths for 4 pentafluoroethylumbelliferyl D glucoside are 385 495 nm. When testing for Gaucher s disease in a droplet actuator the enzymatic activity may for example be as much as eight fold greater when using the 4 pentafluoroethylumbelliferyl B D glucoside substrate fluid compared with using the 4 methylumbelliferyl D glucoside substrate fluid.

4MU fluid substrates may be replaced or supplemented with 4 trifluoromethylumbelliferyl substrates. For example 4 trifluoromethylumbelliferyl glycosides may be used as substrates for the assay of LSD hydrolyases glycosidases etc. . The 4 trifluoromethylumbelliferone leaving group exhibits a greater signal and the signal is shifted more to the red when compared to 4 methylumbelliferone. In addition the 4 trifluoromethylumbelliferyl glycosides maybe cleaved more readily than the 4 methylumbelliferyl glycosides leading to a larger signal.

In another embodiment the invention provides methods for droplet based enzymatic assays for chitotriosidase activity. Chitotriosidase is significantly increased in the plasma of patients with certain conditions such as Gaucher s disease. In one example chitotriosidase activity may be used as a surrogate plasma marker for a condition in which chitotriosidase activity is altered such as Gaucher s disease. In another example chitotriosidase activity may be used as a surrogate plasma marker for Niemann Pick s disease. The substrate fluid for chitotriosidase in an enzymatic assay may for example be the fluorogenic substrate 4 trifluoromethylumbelliferylchitroside. The sample for the enzymatic assay may for example be a plasma droplet or a dried blood extract droplet. Because chitotriosidase is increased in the plasma of patients with Gaucher and Niemann Pick diseases there may be a significant separation in the fluorescence signal between a patient s plasma sample and a normal plasma sample. The use of chitotriosidase in may also reduce the number of tests that need to be performed in a testing panel for lysosomal storage diseases.

An example of a testing assay for chitotriosidase activity may involve but is not limited to the following A sample droplet e.g. a dried blood extract droplet is combined using droplet operations with a substrate droplet e.g. fluorogenic substrate 4 trifluoromethylumbelliferylchitroside droplet to form a 2 droplet. The 2 droplet is split using droplet operations to form two 1 reaction droplets. One 1 reaction droplet is combined using droplet operations with a stop buffer droplet. Fluorescence of the combined droplet is measured t 0 hrs . The second 1 reaction droplet is incubated for a predetermined time and then the reaction droplet is combined with a stop buffer droplet. End point fluorescence is measured t END hrs . In this example a single sample droplet is dispensed and analyzed. However any number of sample droplets may be dispensed and analyzed.

In another embodiment droplet based enzymatic assays for chitotriosidase activity may be combined with other droplet based enzymatic assays in a panel of tests used for a testing panel for lysosomal storage diseases.

The invention provides assay methods for detection of the lysosomal storage disorder Morquio B syndrome mucopolysaccharidosis IV on a droplet actuator. Morquio B syndrome is caused by deficient activity of the lysosomal enzyme galactosidase. The substrate fluid for galactosidase in an enzymatic assay may for example be the fluorogenic substrate 4 methylumbelliferyl galactose 4 MU galactose excitation 360 nm emission 460 nm . The sample for the enzymatic assay may for example be a plasma droplet or a dried blood extract droplet. Because galactosidase is deficient in patients with Morquio B syndrome there may be a significant separation in the fluorescence signal between a patient s blood sample and a normal blood sample. A second enzyme that may be present in a blood sample galactocerebrosidase may also cleave the 4 MU galactose substrate. However levels of galactocerebrosidase are significantly lower e.g. about 200 lower than levels of galactosidase.

On bench assays for galactosidase activity in a blood sample may be adapted and described as discrete droplet based protocols. One example of an on bench assay for galactosidase activity includes the following steps 

An example of a digital microfluidic testing assay for galactosidase activity may include but is not limited to the following A sample droplet e.g. a dried blood extract droplet is combined and mixed using droplet operations with a Morquio B reagent e.g. 4 MU B galactose droplet to form a 2 reaction droplet. The 2 reaction droplet is split using droplet operations to form two 1 reaction droplets. One 1 reaction droplet is combined using droplet operations with a stop buffer droplet. Fluorescence of the combined droplet is measured t 0 hrs . The second 1 reaction droplet is incubated at a certain temperature e.g. 37 C. for a predetermined time and then the reaction droplet is combined with a stop buffer droplet. End point fluorescence is measured t END hrs . In this example a single sample droplet is dispensed and analyzed. However any number of sample droplets may be dispensed and analyzed. B galactosidase activity is calculated from the difference of t 0 hrs from t END hrs.

In another embodiment droplet based enzymatic assays for galactosidase activity may be combined with other droplet based enzymatic assays in a panel of tests used for a testing panel for lysosomal storage diseases.

Any of the enzymatic assay protocols described herein may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator e.g. for use in testing newborns for enzymatic disorders. In one example enzymatic assays for Pompe and Fabry diseases may be adapted and performed on a droplet actuator. shows an example of a plot of multiplexed testing for Pompe and Fabry diseases using extracts from single DBS punch. shows clear separation between the affected enzyme deficient and normal samples for both the Pompe assay and the Fabry assay. The assays were reproducibly performed on over 100 normal neonatal DBS samples and 20 affected neonatal samples.

Assays for biotinidase and total galactose for BIOT and galactosemia testing respectively are currently available and performed by many newborn testing NBS laboratories world wide. The assay for biotinidase may be the colorimetric Wolf s assay absorbance detection assay . The assay for total galactose is a fluorometric assay 365 nm excitation 465 nm emission . The colorimetric assay for biotinidase and the fluorometric assay for total galactose may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. In one embodiment the invention provides on chip enzyme assay protocols for newborn testing for BIOT and galactosemia using a single punch from a DBS sample. DBS extracts may be prepared using a single extraction buffer and exclusive components required for each assay may be included in the reagent formulation. The on chip enzyme assays are adapted for each enzymatic reaction and are reproducible. For example different concentrations of analyte e.g. DBS punch extracted in about 50 L or about 100 L or about 150 L or about 200 L of extraction buffer may be selected such that a minimal amount of DBS extract provides a detectable signal. Because a minimal amount of DBS extract is used multiple NBS assays may be performed. The concentrations of the different reagents buffering capacity and pH may be adapted for use in a digital microfluidics protocol. Incubation times for each enzymatic reaction may be selected based on kinetic data. The relatively large reaction volumes in the on bench protocol may be reduced i.e. unitized to droplet volumes that are compatible with a digital microfluidic format.

The invention provides on chip immunoassay protocols for newborn testing for congenital hypothyroidism CH congenital adrenal hyperplasia CH and cystic fibrosis CF using a single punch from a DBS sample. DBS extracts may be prepared using a single extraction buffer and exclusive components required for each assay may be included in the reagent formulation.

In one embodiment the invention provides on chip immunoassay protocols for immunoreactive trysinogen IRT for CF. In another embodiment the invention provides on chip immunoassay protocols for thyroid stimulating hormone TSH and free thryroxine T4 for CH. In yet another embodiment the invention provides on chip immunoassay protocols for 17 hydroxy progesterone 17 OHP for CAH. The immunoassays for IRT and TSH are sandwich immunoassays. The immunoassays for 17 OHP and T4 are competitive assays.

In one embodiment the enzyme label labeled secondary antibody for all on chip immunoassays may be alkaline phosphatase ALP . Detection may for example be fluorescence based. The substrate fluid for ALP may for example be 4 methylumbeliferrone phosphate 4 MUPi with excitation emission wavelength of 365 460 nm. The on chip immunoassays may be adapted for each enzymatic reaction. For example different concentrations of analyte e.g. DBS punch extracted in about 50 L or about 100 L or about 150 L of extraction buffer may be selected such that a minimal amount of DBS extract provides a detectable signal. Because a minimal amount of DBS extract is used multiple NBS assays may be performed. The concentrations of the different reagents e.g. primary and secondary antibodies labeled with ALP may be adapted for use in a digital microfluidics protocol. In one example concentrations of primary and secondary antibodies required for sufficient sensitivity may be determined using antigen standards. Incubation times for each immunoassay may be selected based on binding kinetic data. Binding incubations may for example be determined using a droplet mixing protocol wherein the droplet mixture of reagents and the sample are continuously mixed on chip to ensure substantially complete resuspension of magnetically responsive beads with bound immune complex thereon. In another example fluorescence kinetic data for the reaction of 4 MUPi with the washed magnetically responsive beads with bound immune complex thereon may be used to select an incubation time sufficient for required sensitivity. Adsorption of proteins and other contaminating materials from the DBS extract onto the magnetically responsive immunocapture beads may be substantially eliminated by using suitable blocking solutions and or surfactants in the wash buffer. Exemplary protocols for droplet based immunoassays are set forth in Pamula et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 815 871 issued on Oct. 19 2010 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Newborn testing may be performed in centralized laboratories and often requires different types of assays for different conditions. For example immunoassays may be used to test for congenital hypothyroidism CH congenital adrenal hyperplasia CAH and cystic fibrosis CF and enzymatic assays are used to test for biotinidase deficiency BIOT and galactosemia. Current technologies used in testing for these conditions use separate instrumentation. For example most newborn testing laboratories use Perkin Elmer s Autodelfia immunoanalyzer to test for CF CH and CAH and Astoria Pacific s Spotcheck fluorescence based analyzer to test for galactosemia. Other laboratories may use a manual fluorometric method to test for galactosemia. To test for BIOT most newborn testing laboratories use a manual colorimetric assay e.g. Wolf s assay in a 96 well format. Because separate assays and instrumentation are used precious neonatal sample volume is not conserved.

The invention provides an integrated droplet actuator device and methods for performing enzymatic assays and immunoassays on a single droplet actuator. In one example the integrated droplet actuator device and methods of the invention may be used for multiplexed detection of CAH CH CF galactosemia and BIOT using for example extract from a single dried blood spot sample.

Droplet actuator may include an enzymatic assay zone e.g. a 2 plex enzymatic assay zone for performing enzymatic assays such as enzymatic assays for BIOT and galactosemia. Droplet actuator may further include an immunoassay zone e.g. a 3 plex immunoassay zone for performing immunoassays such as immunoassays for CH CAH and CF. Droplet actuator may further include a detection zone . Detection zone may include certain areas for detection of a fluorescent signal and certain areas for absorbance detection as described in reference to .

Detection system may include an imaging device and a detector . Imaging device may for example be a sensitive fluorimeter. Detector may include an arrangement of light emitting diodes LEDs e.g. three LEDs and and an arrangement of photodetectors e.g. three photodetectors and . Photodetectors may for example be photodiodes. The arrangement of LEDs and photodetectors is such that photodetectors are substantially aligned with LEDs . Detection system is part of an instrument not shown used for operation of a droplet actuator.

A droplet actuator may be used in combination with detection system . For example a droplet actuator may be positioned in an instrument deck not shown such that a certain region of droplet actuator is aligned with detection system . Droplet actuator may include a bottom substrate and a top substrate that are separated by a gap . A gasket may be used to set the size of gap . Bottom substrate may include an arrangement of droplet operations electrodes e.g. electrowetting electrodes . Droplet operations are conducted atop droplet operations electrodes on a droplet operations surface.

Droplet actuator is positioned in an instrument deck not shown such that imaging device and detector are aligned with certain droplet operations electrodes . In particular LEDs and photodetectors are substantially aligned with certain droplet operations electrodes .

Droplet actuator may include a droplet . Droplet may for example be a droplet of sample fluid to be evaluated. Droplet may for example have a volume of about 300 nL. In one example droplet may contain a quantity of beads not shown . For example the beads may be immunocapture beads for targeting a certain substance e.g. protein DNA and or antigens during the assay operations i.e. immunoassay of droplet actuator . Upon interacting with a reagent droplet may be evaluated for target substances that have an affinity for the immunocapture beads therein. One example method of evaluation may be by digital imaging for identifying for example a fluorescent signal. In another example droplet may contain a quantity of fluorescent reaction product generated during an enzymatic assay such as an assay used to test for galactosemia.

In operation imaging device is substantially aligned with a certain droplet operations electrode such that the certain droplet operations electrode is within the imaging field of imagining device . Imaging device may be used to capture images e.g. fluorescent signal that may be emitted from droplet . Imaging device may capture images through top substrate which may for example be a glass plate that is substantially transparent. Further the thickness of top substrate may be optimized to provide effective imaging of droplet .

Droplet actuator may further include one or more droplets e.g. droplets and to be evaluated. Each droplet may for example have a volume of about 300 nL. Droplets may for example contain a quantity of reaction product generated during an enzymatic assay such as a colorimetric assay used to test for BIOT. One example method of evaluation may be by absorbance detection of a colored reaction product.

All operations to multiplex enzymatic assays and immunoassays on a droplet actuator may be programmed in the software for controlling the droplet actuator. In one example software that converts complex assay protocols into simple flow charts may be used to provide input commands for the electronics of the droplet actuator.

An example of multiplex testing assay protocol may include but is not limited to the following Dispense five sample droplets e.g. extracted from a single DBS punch and transport the droplets using droplet operations to the appropriate reaction zones e.g. enzymatic assay zone or immunoassay zone . For an enzymatic assay e.g. galactosemia BIOT dispense one droplet of reagent and combine it using droplet operations with one sample droplet to form a reaction droplet. Incubate the reaction droplet for a period of time sufficient for generation of a reaction product. Dispense one droplet of stop quench buffer and combine it using droplet operations with the reaction droplet. Detect fluorescence e.g. galactosemia assay or absorbance e.g. BIOT assay . For sandwich immunoassays e.g. CF CH dispense one droplet each of magnetically responsive immunocapture beads blocking solution and secondary antibody labeled with ALP. Merge all the droplets reagent droplets and sample droplet using droplet operations and incubate for a period of time sufficient for formation of immunocomplexes. Magnetically responsive beads with bound immunocomplexes thereon are washed using a bead washing protocol to remove any unbound secondary antibody. Dispense one droplet of substrate fluid e.g. 4 MUPi and combine it using droplet operations with the washed bead droplet. Detect fluorescence. For competitive immunoassays e.g. CH and CAH dispense on droplet of magnetically responsive immunocapture beads and combine it using droplet operations with one sample droplet and one droplet of ALP labeled analyte to form a reaction droplet. Incubate the reaction droplet for a period of time sufficient for antigen antibody binding Magnetically responsive beads are washed using a bead washing protocol to remove excess material. Dispense one droplet of substrate fluid e.g. 4 MUPi and combine it using droplet operations with the washed bead droplet. Detect fluorescence.

In newborn testing assays contamination may be caused by liquid handling failures such as droplet splitting or pinning of previous droplets on the same electrode pathway. Contamination may cause false negatives for one or more droplets on the contaminated pathway. In one embodiment contamination is avoided by using stop buffer droplets to wash the previous lane. Examples of stop buffers are those often used in enzymatic assays such as newborn testing assays for metabolic disorders. Examples of lane or pathway washing protocols are described in International Patent Application No. PCT US09 43774 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices Systems and Methods filed on May 13 2009 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

As an example wash droplets may be transported along a common pathway between each potentially contaminating droplet. The potentially contaminating droplet may include a reagent droplet a sample droplet and or a reaction droplet that includes a potentially contaminating substance such as a target enzyme. The wash droplets may for example include a wash buffer such as a stop buffer. Wash droplets may include compounds that degrade contaminants. Wash droplets may include components that bind to contaminants Wash droplets may be transported along the common pathway in the same direction or in an opposite or transverse direction relative to the potentially contaminating droplets. In some cases multiple wash droplets are interposed on paths between potentially contaminating droplets. In some cases the wash droplets are larger than the potentially contaminating droplets e.g. 2 3 4 or larger droplets may be used as wash droplets.

4 MU containing substrates a.k.a 7 hydroxy 4 methylcoumarin are used in a number of bioassays including assays for the detection of lysosomal storage disorders in newborns. The fluorometric enzyme assays are based on the hydrolysis of a 4 MU containing substrate by a specific enzyme to yield the fluorescent molecule 4 MU. In the droplet operations environment of a droplet actuator partitioning of 4 MU between the aqueous phase i.e. droplet and the organic phase filler fluid may potentially contaminate an electrode pathway. The enzymatic turnover of the 4 MU substrate requires a low pH environment acidic environment . At low pH pK of 4 MU 7.9 4 MU is non ionic and hydrophobic and partitions preferentially from the aqueous droplet phase into the oil filler phase 100 1 . Droplets subsequently prepared for the detection step of the bioassay are at a high pH. Fluorescence of 4 MU is optimal at elevated pH pH 10 . A high pH pH 10 facilitates reverse partitioning of 4 MU from the oil phase back into an aqueous phase droplet. The potential for droplet cross contamination is problematic when an acidic droplet with elevated enzyme concentration producing significant amounts of 4 MU product is in proximity of a basic droplet with substantially lower 4 MU concentrations.

The invention provides methods to substantially eliminate cross contamination between droplets or loss of signal from droplets in 4 MU based bioassays e.g. newborn testing assays on a droplet actuator. The method provides significantly improved discrimination between a positive signal and a negative signal in 4 MU based bioassays. In one embodiment the enzymatic 4 MU containing substrate may be immobilized onto a solid support. In another example the enzymatic 4 MU containing substrate may be immobilized on magnetically responsive beads. In yet another example the enzymatic 4 MU containing substrate may be immobilized on hydrogel beads. The 4 MU containing substrate may for example be immobilized onto a solid support via the 4 MU component of the substrate molecule. The solid support e.g. magnetically responsive beads or hydrogel beads may be selected such that the beads remain suspended in an aqueous droplet and move with the aqueous droplet during droplet operations Immobilization of the 4 MU onto a solid support e.g. magnetically responsive beads or hydrogel beads provides for retention of the enzymatic 4 MU substrate within the aqueous droplet and substantially eliminates partitioning of 4 MU into the oil filler phase at any pH Immobilization of 4 MU may also occur onto macromolecules such as cellulose.

In another embodiment enzymatic substrates such as 4 MU containing substrates may be retained within an aqueous phase e.g. an aqueous droplet by formation of an inclusion complex. In one example cyclodextrins may be used to form an inclusion complex containing 4 MU. Cyclodextrins are donut shaped cyclic glucose molecules with a hydrophobic inner cavity and a hydrophilic outer surface. Cyclodextrins are commercially available in various sizes. For example alpha cyclodextrins have 6 glucose units cyclodextrins have 7 glucose units and gamma cyclodextrins have 8 glucose units. The size of the inner cavity increases from alpha cyclodextrin to gamma cyclodextrin. Alternatives to cyclodextrins may include crown ethers cryptands and cyclic peptides as well as derivatives conjugates and combinations of the foregoing and may be used in other embodiments described herein.

An example of an assay format used for testing the effect of cyclodextrins on contamination through 4 MU partitioning includes but is not limited to the following steps Pipette an aliquot 20 L of an aqueous phase solution e.g. at pH 2 pH5 or pH 10.5 containing a surfactant such as 0.01 Tween 20 in a well of a 96 well clear microtiter plate. The aqueous phase solution may also include 4 MU e.g. 100 M NaCl e.g. 50 mM and cylcodextrin e.g. 100 M 1 mM 10 mM or 100 mM . Add 130 L of silicone oil 5 cSt 0.1 Triton X 15 to each well that contains an aqueous phase droplet. Seal the plate with aluminum foil and shake using a bench top shaker e.g. Thermofisher shaker at speed setting 5 for 30 min at room temperature. Carefully remove the aluminum foil and observe each well to note and record any defects in droplet quality minimize light exposure during this step . Measure the fluorescence of each well using a bottom probe at gains 40 45 and 50. Transfer without disturbing the aqueous droplet 50 L of the oil phase FE oil from each well into the respective well of a solid black microtiter plate that contains 50 L of 200 mM NaHCOin each well. Seal the plate with aluminum foil and shake using for example a Thermofisher bench top shaker e.g. speed setting 5 for 30 min at room temperature. Remove the aluminum foil and measure the fluorescence of each well using a top probe at gains 50 60 70 and 80.

Aqueous containment of 4 MU may be examined as a function of the molar ratio of cyclodextrin to 4 MU. show a plot linear linear scale and a plot log log scale respectively of concentration free 4 MU as a function of cyclodextrin 4 MU molar ratio. The data was generated at pH 2 in 100 mM KCl MeOH water 2 98 v v.

Tables 5 and 6 show an example of a microtiter plate layout used to evaluate the effect of cyclodextrins CD on aqueous containment of 4 MU. The plate layout for forward transfer partitioning is shown in Table 5. In this example the pH of the aqueous phase was pH 2 or pH 5. The concentrations of cyclodextrins were 100 M 10 mM or 100 mM. The concentration of 4 MU is either 0 M or 100 M.

The corresponding microtiter plate layout for the backward transfer backward extraction is shown in Table 6. Each well of the second microtiter plate i.e. a solid black microtiter plate contains 50 L of an aqueous solution 200 mM NaHCO at pH 10.5. Each well also contains an aliquot 50 L of oil i.e. FE oil from the corresponding well of the forward transfer reaction described in reference to Table 5. For fluorescence calibration an aqueous solution containing 4 MU 0 0.01 0.1 or 1 M was added to the corresponding empty wells of Table 5 and overlaid with a 50 L aliquot of fresh oil.

In the droplet operations environment of a droplet actuator formation of an inclusion complex between 4 MU and cyclodextrins may be used to substantially minimize droplet cross contamination by preventing 4 MU from leaking from the aqueous phase into the filler fluid e.g. silicone oil phase at low pH. In one example cyclodextrin may be used as an additive to a reagent droplet that includes the 4 MU containing substrate. A sample droplet e.g. a dried blood extract droplet is combined and mixed using droplet operations with the reagent droplet. Because cyclodextrin is included in the reagent droplet the enzymatic product i.e. 4 MU is sequestered within an inclusion complex as soon as it is released by the enzyme present in the sample droplet.

In yet another embodiment surfactants may be used to retain 4 MU or derivatives within an aqueous phase e.g. an aqueous phase droplet . The efficacy of different surfactants in containing 4 MU or derivatives within an aqueous phase may for example be evaluated and selected using a partitioning assay such as the 4 MU partitioning assay described in reference to . In this example parameters that may be varied in the assay for evaluation of surfactants in aqueous containment of 4 MU or derivatives include but are not limited to the pH of the aqueous phase solution e.g. pH 2 to pH 10.5 range and the critical micellar concentration of the surfactant.

An example of an assay format used for testing the effect of surfactants on contamination through 4 MU partitioning includes but is not limited to the following steps Pipette an aliquot 20 L of an aqueous phase solution e.g. pH range of pH 2 to pH 10.5 containing a selected concentration e.g. 1.5 the surfactant s critical micellar concentration of a surfactant in a well of a 96 well clear bottom microtiter plate e.g. Costar 3631 . The aqueous phase solution also includes 4 MU e.g. 1 mM . Add 130 L of silicone oil 5 cSt 0.1 Triton X 15 to each well that contains an aqueous phase droplet. Seal the plate with aluminum foil and shake using a bench top shaker e.g. Thermofisher shaker at speed setting 5 for 30 min at room temperature. Carefully remove the aluminum foil and observe each well to note and record any defects in droplet quality minimize light exposure during this step . Measure the fluorescence of each well using a bottom probe at for example a gain of 40. Transfer without disturbing the aqueous droplet 50 L of the oil phase FE oil from each well into the respective well of a solid black microtiter plate that contains 50 L of 200 mM NaHCOpH 10.5 in each well. Seal the plate with aluminum foil and shake using for example a Thermofisher bench top shaker e.g. speed setting 5 for 30 min at room temperature. Remove the aluminum foil and measure the fluorescence of each well using a top probe at gains 45 50 55 60 65 and 70.

Droplet actuator based lysosomal enzyme tests used in newborn testing assays NBS are fluorescent based tests which measure the release of 4 methylumbelliferone 4 MU or 6 hexadecanoylamido 4 methylumbelliferone HMU after enzymatic hydrolysis of the substrates. The enzymatic assays of the invention may be performed in aqueous droplets within the oil filled gap of the droplet actuator. In one example the oil filler fluid may be polydimethylsiloxane silicon oil PDMS . The lysosomal enzyme tests are performed at acidic pH values ranging between pH 2.8 and pH 5.6. In some embodiments after incubation the enzymatic reactions may be terminated by the addition of sodium bicarbonate pH 10.1 which also dissociates the proton from the umbelliferone hydroxyl leading to a substantial increase in fluorescent signal. At the acid pH values used for testing lysosomal enzymes the products of the assays 4 MU and HMU are protonated and may partition from the aqueous droplet into the PDMS filler fluid. Partitioning of 4 MU and HMU into the oil phase may result in a reduction in the assay signal and potential contamination of neighboring samples.

The invention provides methods to substantially reduce or eliminate the oil solubility of umbelliferyl derivatives e.g. 4 MU and HMU during fluorescent based assays e.g. NBS samples assays glycosidase protease and immunoassays on a droplet actuator. In one embodiment chemical modification of 4 MU and HMU may be used to form derivatives with substantially reduced solubility in the oil filler fluid e.g. PDMS . Examples of chemical modifications that may be used to reduce the oil solubility of umbelliferyl derivatives may include addition of amino groups carbon chain length tethering 4 MU or HMU with molecules such as cellulose or polylysine. Chemical modification s may be selected such that activity and or specificity of the enzymatic reaction e.g. various lysosomal enzyme assays are not substantially altered disrupted . Chemical modification s may also be selected such that the fluorescent signal of 4 MU or HMU is not eliminated. Preferably retaining enough fluorescent signal of 4 MU or HMU to distinguish a positive or negative in the test. Chemical modification s may also be selected such that the umbelliferyl derivatives are compatible with downstream synthetic reactions used to prepare individual assay substrates. Chemical modification s may also be selected such that the umbelliferyl derivatives have sufficient water solubility suitable for specific NBS assays. In one example the water solubility of umbelliferyl derivatives may be selected for assay conditions ranging between pH 3.5 and pH 6.0. Suitable umbelliferyl derivatives may for example be selected using the Log D values at pH 3.5 and pH 6.0.

In one example the 4 methyl group of 4 MU and HMU may be modified with a chemical structure that increases the hydrophilicity of 4 MU and HMU. Because the 4 MU and HMU derivatives are hydrophilic retention of the fluorescent derivatives in the aqueous phase reaction droplet is substantially increased. Examples of suitable chemical structures that may be used to modify 4 MU and HMU to increase their hydrophilicity include but are not limited to polymers including linear or branched polyalkalene glycols PAG such as polyethylene glycols PEG and or polypropylene glycols PPG or combinations of PEG and PPG sulfonic acids and amino groups. The efficacy of chemical modification in promoting retention of 4 MU and HMU in the aqueous phase may for example be evaluated using an on chip partitioning assay.

The compounds described herein are analogs of 4 methylumbilleferone 4 MU and 6 hexadecanoyl 4 methylumbelliferone.

The hydrophilic polymer or oligomer can be any of a variety of oligomers comprising a polyalkalene glycol moiety as will be understood by those skilled in the art. Preferably the polyalkalene glycol moiety of the oligomer has 1 100 polyalkalene glycol subunits. More preferably the polyalkalene glycol moiety has 1 50 polyalkalene glycol subunits and most preferably the polyalkalene glycol moiety has 1 25 polyalkalene glycol subunits.

The hydrophilic polymer or oligomer can be any of a variety of oligomers comprising a polyethylene glycol moiety as will be understood by those skilled in the art. Preferably the polyethylene glycol moiety of the oligomer has 1 100 polyethylene glycol subunits. More preferably the polyethylene glycol moiety has 1 50 polyethylene glycol subunits and most preferably the polyethylene glycol moiety has 1 25 polyethylene glycol subunits.

The hydrophilic polymer or oligomer can be any of a variety of oligomers comprising a polypropylene glycol moiety as will be understood by those skilled in the art. Preferably the polypropylene glycol moiety of the oligomer has 1 100 polypropylene glycol subunits. More preferably the polypropylene glycol moiety has 1 50 polypropylene glycol subunits and most preferably the polypropylene glycol moiety has 1 25 polypropylene glycol subunits.

Additional hydrophilic oligomers and polymers include those containing polar or charged functional groups rendering them soluble in water. For example acrylics include acrylic acid acrylamide and maleic anhydride polymers and copolymers Amine functional polymers include allylamine ethyleneimine oxazoline and other polymers containing amine groups in their main or side chains such as polylysine. These may be combined with PAGs.

The oligomer may comprise one or more other moieties as will be understood by those skilled in the art including but not limited to additional hydrophilic moieties lipophilic moieties spacer moieties linker moieties and terminating moieties. The various moieties in the oligomer are covalently coupled to one another by either hydrolyzable or non hydrolyzable bonds.

The or more additional hydrophilic moieties i.e. moieties in addition to the polyethylene glycol moiety can include but are not limited to sugars polyhydric alcohols polyalkylene oxides and polyamine PEG copolymers. As polyethylene glycol is a polyalkylene oxide the additional hydrophilic moiety may be a polyethylene glycol moiety. Adjacent polyethylene glycol moieties will be considered to be the same moiety if they are coupled by an ether bond. For example the moiety O CH O CH O CH O CH O CH O CH is a single polyethylene glycol moiety having six polyethylene glycol subunits. Adjacent polyethylene glycol moieties will be considered to be different moieties if they are coupled by a bond other than an ether bond.

The oligomer can further comprise one or more spacer moieties as will be understood by those skilled in the art. Spacer moieties are preferably selected from the group consisting of sugar cholesterol and glycerine moieties.

The oligomer can further comprise one or more terminating moieties at the one or more ends of the oligomer which are not coupled to the 4 HU or 6HMU backbone. The terminating moiety is preferably an alkyl or alkoxy moiety and is more preferably a lower alkyl or lower alkoxy moiety where lower means C . Most preferably the terminating moiety is methyl or methoxy. While the terminating moiety is preferably an alkyl or alkoxy moiety it is to be understood that the terminating moiety may be various moieties as will be understood by those skilled in the art including but not limited to sugars cholesterol alcohols and fatty acids. The oligomer or polymer may include one or more anionic or self forming moieties such as tertiary anion.

Representative sugar moieties that can be coupled to the 4 MU core structure at position Rinclude but are not limited to 

The sugar moieties shown are a pyranose b pyranose a furanose and b furanose forms of allose altrose glucose mannose gulose idose galactose and talose respectively. The sugar moeities can be attached to the phenol moiety to form an ether linkage using etherification techniques ideally those in which the hydroxy groups not involved in the coupling chemistry are protected during the etherification step and deprotected at a later time in the overall synthesis. Suitable protecting groups are described for example in Greene and Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3Ed. John Wiley Sons 1999 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Where glucose is the sugar and reacts with the phenol at R the resulting compound is known as a glucopyranoside. For formation of glucopyranosides is well known to those of skill in the art.

Representative polyhydric alcohols include glycol 2 carbon glycerol 3 carbon erythritol 4 carbon threitol 4 carbon arabitol 5 carbon xylitol 5 carbon ribitol 5 carbon mannitol 6 carbon sorbitol 6 carbon dulcitol 6 carbon iditol 6 carbon isomalt 12 carbon maltitol 12 carbon lactitol 12 carbon and polyglycitol.

Examples of individual 4 HMU analogs that may be used in the methods for conducting enzymatic assays as described herein may include the structures as shown in .

Reaction with a suitable amine containing moiety R NH displaces the succinimidyl NHS ester and forms an amide linkage 

NHS ester crosslinking reactions are most commonly performed in phosphate bicarbonate carbonate HEPES or borate buffers at pH 7.2 8.5 for 0.5 4 hours at room temperature or 4 C. Primary amine buffers such as Tris TBS are not compatible because they compete for reaction however in some procedures it is useful to add Tris or glycine buffer at the end of a conjugation procedure to quench stop the reaction.

To prepare compounds in which a thioamide or C NH NHRmoiety is present one can start with an analog in which the carbonyl in the succinimidyl ester is replaced with a C S or a C NH moiety.

In these reactions the phenol if present at position R should be protected until after the coupling chemistry is completed.

Suitable Coxyalkyl Caminoalkyl Calkylamino CHCHO CH CHCHO SOH C alkyl C O NH CHCHNH H SOH C alkyl C O OH SOMe C alkyl heterocyclyl monosaccharides disaccharides and other moieties are well known to those of skill in the art and can readily be prepared.

In the case of ester formation one can reflux the desired alcohol with the carboxylic acid where X is O moiety and using a Dean Stark trap remove water as it is formed to drive the equilibrium towards products.

In these reactions the phenol if present at position R should be protected until after the coupling chemistry is completed.

Alternatively the chemistry can be performed in a stepwise manner where a moiety HX CH C O XH is deprotonated and the more basic X anion i.e. the one attached to the CHmoiety rather than the C O moiety acts as a nucleophile to displace the leaving group. Then the less basic X anion can be protonated and converted to a suitable leaving group i.e. an acid halide an anhydride and the like and an RAH moiety reacted with the leaving group to form the final product.

In these reactions the phenol if present at position R should be protected until after the coupling chemistry is completed.

In this reaction the phenol if present at position R should be protected until after the coupling chemistry is completed. Similarly any functional groups on Rthat would otherwise react with the isocyanate should be protected.

Versions thereof in which one or more amines is quaternized to yield a quaternary ammonium salt and salts thereof.

The compounds of Formulas 6 10 can be prepared using the same general reactions used to prepare the compounds of Formulas 1 5 except that the starting materials further include a NH C X Rmoiety. The amide thioamide or C NH NH moiety is non reactive under the coupling conditions used to prepare the compounds so can be present at the time the coupling chemistry is performed. Alternatively a protected aniline moiety next to the phenol moiety can be present and can be deprotected at an appropriate time after the coupling chemistry is complete. From there the aniline group can be reacted with a suitable acid chloride i.e. R C O halo or acid anhydride R C O O C O R to form an amine.

Fluorescent substrates used in enzymatic NBS assays may have varying degrees of hydrophobicity. Because the fluorescent substrates may be hydrophobic their interaction with more hydrophilic enzymes such as the enzymes in dried blood extracts may be reduced. The invention provides methods to enhance the hydrolysis of enzymatic substrates such as fluorescent substrates used in NBS assays. In one embodiment the hydrolysis of enzymatic substrates e.g. 4 MU or HMU containing substrates may be enhanced by formation of an inclusion complex that stabilizes the substrate within an aqueous environment. For example cyclodextrins e.g. hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin methyl cyclodextrin may be used to form an inclusion complex containing a hydrophobic substrate. Negatively charged cyclodextrins may be used to further enhance substrate hydrolysis. The methods of the invention provide for improved separation between a lower signal and a higher signal in enzyme substrate based bioassay such as NBS assays for Fabry Gaucher Pompe Krabbe and Niemann Pick diseases.

To evaluate the efficacy of cyclodextrins in enhancing the hydrolysis of enzymatic substrates 4 MU substrates used in NBS assays DBS extracts were prepared from quality control QC dried blood spot samples i.e. base pool BP low L medium M and high H activity samples . The QC samples were obtained from CDC Atlanta Ga. The base pool BP QC sample was prepared from a pool of leukoreduced human red blood cells that was adjusted with serum to a hematocrit of 50 . The High H activity QC sample was prepared from pooled cord blood that was adjusted with serum to a hematocrit of 50 . The medium M activity QC sample was prepared by using 50 base pool BP and 50 high H activity sample. The low L activity QC sample was prepared by using 95 base pool BP and 5 high H activity sample. The BP sample is used as a control for hydrolysis non specific to white blood cell lysosomal enzymes. The DBS extracts were analyzed using on bench assay protocols for Fabry Gaucher Krabbe and Pompe diseases. For each assay on chip reagent formulations were scaled up to bench volumes. Hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin or methyl cyclodextrin reagent stocks 300 mM were prepared in appropriate assay buffers. For each reaction 10 L of the appropriate substrate was mixed with 10 L of DBS extract. After an incubation period 20 hrs at 37 C. 50 L of stop buffer 0.2 M NaCO pH 10.1 was added to the reaction. Fluorescence was read at 360 460 nm at a gain of 75. For each assay QC samples BP L M and H were analyzed in duplicate.

To further evaluate the efficacy of lower concentrations of cyclodextrins in enhancing the hydrolysis of 4 MU substrates Fabry and Gaucher assays were repeated using cyclodextrins concentrations ranging from 1 mM to 25 mM. show bar graphs 2200 and 2250 respectively of the effect of lower concentrations of hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin and methyl cyclodextrin respectively on substrate hydrolysis in a Fabry assay. The 4 MU substrate in the Fabry assay was D galactopyranoside. The concentrations of cyclodextrins in the reaction mixture substrate DBS extract were 1 5 10 15 20 and 25 mM. The data show that methyl cyclodextrin 10 mM has a positive effect on the Fabry assay increasing the QC H signal by 37 . The preferred concentration of methyl cyclodextrin is from about 1 mM to about 20 mM or from about 5 mM to about 15 mM or from about 7 mM to about 13 mM or from about 9 mM to about 11 mM or from about 9.5 mM to about 11.5 mM. The effect of hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin on substrate hydrolysis in a Fabry assay was less effective.

The effect of hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin and methyl cyclodextrin on substrate hydrolysis in a Pompe assay was less effective data not shown . The effect of hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin and methyl cyclodextrin on substrate hydrolysis in a Krabbe assay was inhibitory data not shown .

The buffer system used to prepare substrate inhibitor formulation for Fabry disease may include 0.1M sodium citrate a pH from about 4 5 or from about 4.2 4.8 or from about 4.5 4.7 or about 4.6 containing 1 sodium taurocholate. Although this formulation produces statistically significant separation between the normal and Fabry affected dried blood spot extracts the inventors have found that it results in clot formation within the droplets. This clotting may adversely affect the reproducibility of the assay because enzyme may be trapped within the clots where it is unavailable to the substrate. The clots seemed to appear very early in the assay 30 minutes from the inception . The inventors have found that a buffer system using 0.04M Sodium Citrate a pH from about 4 5 or from about 4.2 4.8 or from about 4.5 4.7 or about 4.6 with 0.01 Tween 20 does not affect the signal at all and the clot formation was eliminated. In another example 0.04M Sodium Acetate pH 4.6 with 0.01 Tween 20 was used in preparing substrate inhibitor formulation which produced the same results as the Sodium citrate buffer. Thus in one embodiment the invention provides an enzymatic assay making use of blood a blood component or a reconstituted blood spot and further makes use of a substrate inhibitor formulation at a pH from about 4 5 or from about 4.2 4.8 or from about 4.5 4.7 or about 4.6 but which lacks sodium taurocholate. In another embodiment the invention provides an enzymatic assay making use of blood a blood component or a reconstituted blood spot and further makes use of a substrate inhibitor formulation at a pH from about 4 5 or from about 4.2 4.8 or from about 4.5 4.7 or about 4.6 and comprises sodium citrate. In another embodiment the invention provides an enzymatic assay making use of blood a blood component or a reconstituted blood spot and further makes use of a substrate inhibitor formulation at a pH from about 4 5 or from about 4.2 4.8 or from about 4.5 4.7 or about 4.6 and comprises sodium acetate. In another embodiment the invention provides an enzymatic assay making use of blood a blood component or a reconstituted blood spot and further makes use of a substrate inhibitor formulation at a pH from about 4 5 or from about 4.2 4.8 or from about 4.5 4.7 or about 4.6 and comprises sodium citrate and lacks sodium acetate. In another embodiment the invention provides an enzymatic assay making use of blood a blood component or a reconstituted blood spot and further makes use of a substrate inhibitor formulation at a pH from about 4 5 or from about 4.2 4.8 or from about 4.5 4.7 or about 4.6 and comprises sodium acetate and lacks sodium acetate. In another embodiment the invention provides an enzymatic assay making use of blood a blood component or a reconstituted blood spot and further makes use of a substrate inhibitor formulation at a pH from about 4 5 or from about 4.2 4.8 or from about 4.5 4.7 or about 4.6 and comprises sodium citrate and a surfactant. In another embodiment the invention provides an enzymatic assay making use of blood a blood component or a reconstituted blood spot and further makes use of a substrate inhibitor formulation a pH from about 4 5 or from about 4.2 4.8 or from about 4.5 4.7 or about 4.6 and comprises sodium acetate and a surfactant.

In one embodiment an assay in accordance with the invention involves the following One set of dried blood spot extract droplets is combined using droplet operations with one set of substrate fluid droplets. The resulting set of 2 droplets is split using droplet operations to form two sets of 1 droplets. Each droplet in the first set of 1 droplets is combined using droplet operations with a stop buffer droplet. Endpoint fluorescence of the combined droplet measured. The second set of 1 reaction droplets is incubated for a predetermined time and then each reaction droplet is combined with a stop buffer droplet. Again endpoint fluorescence is measured. The difference between time t END hrs and t 0 hrs is reported. However in some protocols there is no time t 0 measurement which reduces the number of droplet handling operations by half.

In one embodiment a droplet actuator of the invention is configured to perform 5 plex assays on 48 samples 240 assays which means 240 2 droplets have to be stored for 20 hours in the limited real estate on the chip. Since 2 droplets cannot be stored on a 3 phase bus the 2 droplets may be split using droplet operations and 1 may be transported to waste while the remaining 1 droplet is incubated. In one embodiment all the dispensing electrodes reagent and sample are smaller than the electrodes on the rest of the chip 900 microns or 750 microns gap height 285 microns . In such a droplet actuator a 2 droplet on the smaller electrodes would actually be close to a 1 droplet on the larger electrodes. This configuration would avoid the need for splitting the droplet and would simplify droplet actuator design and work flow easier.

As already noted a disadvantage performing detection at time t 0 and t 20 hours is the number of droplets that should be handled. Performing m plex assays on n number of samples requires the total number of droplets to be m n 2 which limits the total number of samples that can be screened on a single droplet actuator. To fit as many samples as possible on a single cartridge it is helpful to avoid the time t 0 measurement. The main reasons to perform a time t 0 measurement are to assess the quality of the substrates to determine non enzymatic hydrolysis and to account for the effect of hemoglobin quench of fluorescence.

However as already discussed the inventors have surprisingly found that DBS quench on fluorescence is very minimal on chip due to the low path lengths. So it can safely be assumed that that hemoglobin does not affect fluorescence. By detecting the background fluorescence of all the substrates before the start of the actual assay the QC of all the substrates can be obtained. A blank extract may be incubated with the substrate as a control for non enzymatic hydrolysis. By taking these steps the time t 0 measurement can be eliminated thereby reducing the total number of droplets to handle by half. A droplet of known concentration of 4 MU sodium salt may be dispensed using droplet operations and its fluorescence may be detected to provide a calibrant. One droplet each of substrate may be dispensed and merged using droplet operations with a droplet of stop buffer. Endpoint fluorescence of this combination may be detected to assess the QC of the substrates and provide time t 0 measurement. Next one droplet of each substrate may be merged with a corresponding droplet of DBS extract yielding a set of reaction droplets. At the end of the incubation period the reaction droplet may be combined with a stop buffer droplet and endpoint fluorescence may be detected.

Dried blood spots DBS from newborns for testing of lysosomal storage disease LSD enzymes are inherently variable because of the variation in hematocrit between individuals and the irregular deposition of the blood across the filter paper. This variation leads to differences in the amount of hemoglobin in the final assay for a LSD target enzyme. In some cases hemoglobin or other quenching material in the DBS sample may quench the fluorescence emitted from the reaction product e.g. 4 MU or HMU . In the event of hemoglobin quench on fluorescence enzyme activity in a sample may be underestimated.

The invention provides assay methods to measure fluorescence e.g. 4 MU or HMU quench in a reconstituted DBS sample in a droplet actuator based NBS assay. In one example of a droplet actuator based NBS assay a droplet of known concentration of 4 MU 4 MU standard droplet is combined using droplet operations with a droplet of reaction termination buffer stop buffer and fluorescence detected on chip to provide a calibration value for the enzyme assays. This same 4 MU standard droplet may also be used to determine a quench coefficient for each DBS sample droplet to be tested. An example of an assay format for measuring fluorescence quench in a reconstituted DBS sample includes but is not limited to the following steps At the start of an assay a DBS sample droplet is dispensed and combined using droplet operations with a droplet of the 4 MU standard in termination buffer and the fluorescence read no incubation period required . If no hemoglobin or quenching material is present in the DBS sample droplet the fluorescence of the combined DBS sample 4 MU droplet will be equivalent to the fluorescence of the 4 MU standard droplet. The quench coefficient will be 1.0 or no quench observed. If hemoglobin or quenching material is present in the DBS sample droplet a lower fluorescent signal will be detected in the combined DBS sample 4 MU droplet relative to the fluorescence of the 4 MU standard droplet. The fluorescence of the combined DBS sample 4 MU droplet divided by the fluorescence of the 4 MU standard droplet is a measure of the fluorescence quench quench coefficient in the sample. The fluorescence quench coefficient for each sample may be used to normalize all of the fluorescent output signals from all of the DBS assay samples and eliminate the differences in signal outputs because of differences in hemoglobin content or other quench material in each sample.

The invention provides a droplet actuator device and methods for multiplexed testing 3 plex assay on 12 samples for Pompe Fabry and Hunter s lysosomal storage disorders LSDs on a single droplet actuator. In one embodiment samples used for multiplexed testing for LSDs may be prepared from dried blood spots DBS using an on bench protocol prior to loading on a droplet actuator. Reagent preparation e.g. stop buffer extraction buffer substrate formulations and calibrant may also be prepared using on bench protocols prior to loading on a droplet actuator. In another embodiment reagent and or samples may be prepared in resevoirs on the droplet actuatorthen flowed to different operations gaps or prepared in the droplet operations gap.

All reagents and formulations required for Pompe Fabry and Hunter s assays may be prepared on bench and subsequently loaded into fluid dispensing reservoirs of a droplet actuator. Reagents common to all three assays include stop buffer STB 0.2M Sodium bicarbonate pH 10.0 with 0.01 Tween 20 and calibrant CAL 0.15 M 4 Methyl umbelliferone prepared in stop buffer used to calibrate fluorescence detection. Specific substrate formulations for Pompe Fabry and Hunter s assays are summarized in Table 10. In another embodiment reagent and or samples may be prepared in reservoirs on the droplet actuator then flowed to different operations gaps or prepared in the droplet operations gap.

Reagents to prepare stock solutions and buffers for testing for lysosomal storage disorders LSDs such as Pompe Fabry Gaucher Hurler and Hunter assays on a droplet actuater may include any one or more of the following Fabry substrate FS e.g. 4 Methylumbelliferyl D Galactopyranoside 4 MU Gal Fabry inhibitor FI e.g. N Acetyl D Galactosamine GalNaC Sodium Acetate 99 purity Acetic Acid 99.5 17.4N Pompe substrate PS e.g. 4 MU D glucopyranoside 4 MU Gluc Pompe Inhibitor PI e.g. Acarbose Hunter Substrate HS e.g. 4 Methylumbelliferyl L Iduronide 2 Sulphate 4 MU IdoA 2S Lead II Acetate Trihydrate reagent grade Molecular biology grade BSA Recombinant Iduronidase from R D Systems HE e.g. Recombinant L Iduronidase supplied at 0.5 mg mL 20 L in 0.05M Sodium Acetate pH 5.0 with 0.5M NaCl Gaucher Substrate GS e.g. 4 Methyumbelliferyl D Glucopyranoside 4 MU Gluc Hurler Substrate MS e.g. 4 Methylumbelliferyl LIduronide Sodium Salt 4 MU Idu Hurler Inhibitor MI e.g. D Saccharic acid 1 4 lactone monohydrate D Sac Methyl Cyclodextrin MBCD Dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO Molecular grade water Tween 20 Sodium bicarbonate 4 Methyl Umbelliferone Sodium salt Sodium chloride NaCl Molecular Biology Grade Sodium Phosphate monohydrate Citric Acid monohydrate Taurocholic acid sodium salt Sodium Hydroxide NaOH Polydimethlysiloxane Trimethlysiloxy Terminated OIL and Triton X15.

Stock solutions of Pompe substrate PS 70 mM 4 MU D glucopyranoside 4 MU gluc in DMSO and Pompe inhibitor PI 8 mM Acarbose prepared in 0.04 M Sodium Acetate pH 3.8 may be prepared aliquoted and stored at 80 C. until use.

In an embodiment a method of preparing a stock solution of about 1800 L Pompe substrate PS with a molecular weight of about 4 MU Gluc 338.3 g mol at a concentration of about 70 mM may include the following protocol. Weigh about 43 mg of 4 MU Gluc and dissolve in about 1800 L of DMSO and vortex thoroughly until the substrate completely dissolves in the solution.

In an embodiment a method of preparing about 7.2 mLs Pompe Inhibitor PI with a molecular weight of Acarbose of about 645.6 g mol with a concentration of about 8 mM may include the following protocol. Weigh about 37 mgs of Acarbose and dissolve in about 7.2 mL of 0.04M sodium acetate pH 3.8 vortex thoroughly until it dissolves substantially completely in the solution and aliquote.

In an embodiment a method of preparing Pompe Buffer with about 21.5 mM Methyl Cyclodextrin PB may include the following steps. Weigh about 0.656 g of Sodium Acetate and dissolve in about 200 mL of molecular grade water to result in about 0.04 M sodium acetate vortex thoroughly until it is substantially completely dissolved adjust the pH by titrating it with about 0.04M Acetic acid measure the final pH using a pH meter until the final pH of the solution is about 3.8 place about 200 mL of the titrated buffer solution into about a 250 ml plastic bottle add about 200 L of 10 Tween 20 cap and swirl for about 1 minute in about a 250 mL plastic bottle weigh about 2.537 g 2 of Methyl Cyclodextrin add about 90 mL of the buffer 0.04M Acetic acid pH 3.8 0.01 Tween 20 cap and swirl if plastic bottle or vortex if centrifuge tube until substantially complete dissolution of the solid is achieved dispense appropriate aliquots in centrifuge tubes and store at about 4 C.

Stock solutions of Fabry substrate FS 4 Methyumbelliferyl D Galactopyranoside 4 MUGal and Fabry inhibitor FI 750 M of N Acetyl D Galactosamine GalNaC may be prepared in molecular grade water aliquoted and stored at 80 C. until use.

In an embodiment a method of preparing a stock solution of about 1080 L Fabry substrate FS of a molecular weight of 4 MU Gal 338.3 g mol at a concentration of 0.7 mol L 700 mM with an aliquot size of about 3 L each aliquot enough for about 4 cartridges including some overage may include the following protocol. Weighing 256 mg of 4 MU Gal and dissolve in 1080 L of DMSO vortex thoroughly until the substrate is completely dissolved in the solution and aliquote.

In an embodiment a method of preparing about 18 mLs of Fabry Inhibitor FI of a molecular weight of about GalNac 221.21 g mol with a concentration of about 750 M and an aliquot size of about 50 L may include the following protocol. Weighing about 10 mg of GalNac and dissolve in about 60.24 mL of molecular grade water Vortex thoroughly until it is substantially completely dissolved in solution to obtain about 750 M concentrated GalNac solution aliquote and store at about 80 C.

In an embodiment a method of preparing Tween 20 10 w v 10 Tween20 may include the steps of weighing 1 g of Tween 20 into about a 15 ml centrifuge tube use molecular biology grade water and bring the volume up to 10 mL and vortex 5 10s .

In an embodiment a method of preparing a Fabry buffer with about 25.5 mM Methyl Cyclodextrin FB may include the steps of weighing about 0.656 g of sodium acetate and dissolve in about 200 mL of molecular grade water vortex thoroughly until completely dissolved prepare about 0.04 M acetic acid by measuring out about 0.46 mL about 17.4N acetic acid then use molecular biology grade water and bring the solution to a final volume of about 200 mL adjust the pH by titrating it with about 0.04 M Acetic acid measure the final pH using a pH meter until the final pH of the solution is about 4.6 place about 200 mL of the titrated buffer solution into about a 250 ml plastic bottle add about 200 L of 10 Tween 20 cap and swirl for about 1 minute in about a 50 mL centrifuge tube weigh 1.10 0.02 g 2 of Methyl Cyclodextrin add about 33.0 mL of the buffer cap and swirl if plastic bottle or vortex if centrifuge tube until substantially complete dissolution of the solid is achieved aliquote and store at about 4 C.

Stock solutions of Hunter substrate HS 1.25 mM 4 Methylumbelliferyl L Iduronide 2 Sulfate prepared in 0.1 M Sodium Acetate pH 5.0 containing 10 mM Lead Acetate 0.01 Tween 20 and Recombinant Iduronidase HE 10 g mL of Iduronidase in Hunter assay buffer HB 0.05 M Sodium Acetate pH 5.0 with 0.01 Tween 20 and 1 mg mL BSA may be prepared aliquoted 10 L and stored at 80 C. until use.

In an embodiment a method of preparing 1 L of Hunter Substrate buffer with Methyl Cyclodextrin HSB 0.1M Sodium Acetate 0.1M Acetic acid buffer containing 10 mM lead acetate 0.01 Tween 20 22.2 mM Me b CD may include the following. Tare a 2 L beaker containing about a 3 stirbar weigh about 800 g of molecular biology grade water max about 994.25 g into the beaker and add about 5.75 mL of acetic acid 17.4 N measured with a serological plastic pipette stir for about 10 min with a magnetic stirrer at medium speed bring the final volume to about 1 L with molecular biology grade water this makes about 0.1M acetic acid. Then weigh about 8.2 g of sodium acetate in a weighing boat and add the solid quantitatively to the beaker i.e. rinsing the boat out several times with molecular biology grade water and adding the rinses to the beaker stir until all solids are substantially dissolved 10 minutes bring the final volume up to about 1 L with molecular biology grade water this makes about 0.1M sodium acetate. Next weigh 0.285 g of lead II acetate Pb OAc .3HO into a weighing boat and transfer quantitatively into a 250 ml plastic bottle fitted with about a 1 1.5 magnetic stir bar Add about 75 mL of the plain 0.1 M Sodium acetate buffer pH about 5.0 to the bottle Add about 75 uL of 10 Tween 20 to the same bottle Stir magnetically for about 10 min while avoiding the formation of excessive foam In a about 50 mL centrifuge tube weigh about 0.655 g 2 of Methyl Cyclodextrin required for the total HSB preparation prep is available in multiples of about 8.33 mL Add about 22.5 mL of the buffer solution cap and vortex until substantially complete dissolution of the solid is achieved and store at 4 C.

In an embodiment a method of preparing 12 mLs of a Hunter Substrate HS with a molecular weight of about 4 MU IdoA 2S 477 g mol and a concentration of about 1.25 mM may include the following protocol. Add about 3 mL of substrate buffer HSB to a vial containing about 5 mg of 4 MU IdoA 2S substantially dissolve the substrate and transfer the solution to about a 10 mL tube rinse vial with about 3 mL substrate buffer HSB and add this solution to the 10 mL tube add about 2.33 mL substrate buffer HSB to the 10 mL tube which now contains about 8.33 mL of 1.25 mM substrate solution HS repeat the process to produce about 8.33 mL of 1.25 mM substrate solution HS using another 5 mg vial and aliquote.

In an embodiment a method of preparing Hunter Enzyme Buffer HEB may include the following. Preparing about 100 mg mL BSA in molecular biology grade water by adding about 1 mL molecular biology grade water to about 100 mg BSA Preparing about 10 mL of HEB 0.05 M sodium acetate pH about 5.0 0.01 Tween 20 1 mg ml BSA by placing about 5 ml of plain 0.1 M acetate buffer pH about 5.0 HB in a about 15 mL centrifuge tube Add about 5 mL molecular biology grade water Add about 10 ul of 10 Tween 20 Add about 100 ul of 100 mg ml BSA in molecular biology grade water cap and swirl for about 1 minute trying to avoid foam formation and store at about 4 C.

In an embodiment a method of preparing about 1.8 mLs of a Hunter Enzyme HE at a concentration of 10 g mL may include the following protocol. Obtain about 10 g vial of Iduronidase enzyme measure the volume of enzyme in the vial subtract the volume of enzyme from 1000 and add the difference of HEB to produce about 1000 L of HE vortex gently until it dissolves substantially completely in the solution preferably avoiding creating foam repeat the process using one more vial of Iduronidase enzyme to produce about 1000 L total volume 2000 L aliquote and store at 80 C.

In an embodiment a method of preparing about 1080 L Gaucher Substrate GS with a molecular weight of about 4 MU Gluc 338.3 g mol and a concentration of about 0.7 mol L 700 mM may include the following protocol. Weigh 256 mg of 4 MU Gluc and dissolve in about 1080 L of DMSO vortex thoroughly until the substrate is substantially completely dissolved in the solution and aliquote.

In an embodiment a method of preparing a Gaucher Buffer GB may include the following steps. Tare an empty glass containing a magnetic stir bar and record the tare in a tared weighing boat weigh about 2.10 g 0.05 g of citric acid monohydrate and transfer quantitatively into the tared beaker containing the stirbar rinse the boat into the bottle using about 3 5 mL of molecular biology grade water in another tared weighing boat weigh about 2.76 g 0.05 g of sodium phosphate monohydrate and transfer quantitatively into the beaker using about 3 5 mL to rinse the boat Add about 50 mL of molecular biology grade water into the beaker. total volume in bottle at this point preferably about 75 85 mL magnetically stir until the solids are substantially completely dissolved about 10 min tare the beaker with its contents and while stirring add NaOH 2M until the pH reaches a value of about 5.20 0.05 as measured with a pH meter freshly calibrated between pH about 4.00 and 7.00 once the desired pH is reached measure the weight of the beaker with its contents again determine the weight of NaOH 2M added record this value in the batch traveler to determine the total weight of chemicals added to the beaker subtract the initial tare weight empty bottle stirbar from the final total weight determine the difference between this weight and about 100 g add this amount of molecular biology grade water to the beaker stir for about 2 min measure the final pH and record the value in the batch traveler this constitutes plain citrate phosphate buffer about pH 5.2 in about a tared 50 mL centrifuge tube weigh directly about 0.540 g 0.005 g of sodium taurocholate add about 36.0 g 0.3 g of plain citrate phosphate buffer pH 5.2 cap and vortex for about 4 10 s this yields a final taurocholate concentration of about 1.5 w v measure the final pH with a pH meter calibrated between pH of about 4.00 and 7.00 record the final value in the batch traveler it preferably is at a pH of about 5.20 0.05 add about 100 L of 10 Tween 20 to the final solution and mix and aliquote.

In an embodiment a method of preparing an extraction buffer EXT may include the steps of obtaining about 5 mL of 10 Tween 20 solution from a previous preparation and mixing about 5 mL of 10 Tween 20 solution into about 495 mL of molecular grade water to result in about 0.1 Tween 20 solution EXT .

In an embodiment a method of preparing a stop buffer STB may include the following steps. Tare about a 250 ml plastic bottle fitted with about a 1 magnetic stirbar Weigh about 1.058 g of sodium bicarbonate MW 84.01 into the bottle bring the volume to about the 40 45 mL range by adding molecular biology grade water magnetically stir thoroughly until the powder dissolves substantially completely using a pH meter freshly calibrated between pH of about 7.00 and 10.00 measure the pH while adding NaOH 1 M to the solution under agitation until the pH reaches about 10.00 0.05 bring the final volume of bottle contents to about 63.0 mL by adding molecular biology grade water add about 63 L of 10 Tween 20 to the bottle stir for about 5 minutes measure the final pH and record it it should be at pH of about 10.00 0.05 and store at about room temperature.

In an embodiment a method of preparing a calibrant CAL may include the following steps. Dissolve about 60 mg of 4 MU sodium salt in about 10 mL of molecular grade DMSO vortex thoroughly until it dissolves substantially completely into solution to obtain about 30 mM of 4 MU solution in DMSO make a dilution by mixing about 100 L of 30 mM stock solution with about 900 EL of DMSO repeat this about 3 times resulting in about 30 M 4 MU solution in STB mix about 100 L of 30 M 4 MU solution with about 19.9 mL of STB to result in about 0.15 M of 4 MU solution in STB which is used as the CAL aliquote and store at about 80 C.

Control DBS samples high and low QC spots may be obtained from U.S. Centers for Disease Control CDC Atlanta Ga. An on bench protocol for preparation of DBS extracts from QC spots and patient DBS samples includes the following steps 

During extraction of the DBS samples the droplet actuator and instrument may be prepared to run the multiplexed assay.

Electrode arrangement includes multiple fluid dispensing reservoirs electrodes which may for example be allocated as sample dispensing reservoirs electrodes e.g. 12 sample dispensing reservoirs electrodes for dispensing sample fluids e.g. dried blood spot extracts and reagent dispensing reservoirs electrodes e.g. 8 reagent dispensing reservoirs through for dispensing reagent fluids. In one example reagent dispensing reservoir electrode may be used to dispense a substrate formulation for a Pompe assay POM reagent dispensing reservoir electrode may be used to dispense a substrate formulation for a Fabry assay FAB reagent dispensing reservoir electrode may be used to dispense a substrate formulation for a Hunter assay HUN reagent dispensing reservoir electrode may be used to dispense extraction buffer reagent dispensing reservoir electrodes through may be used to dispense reaction stop buffer and reagent dispensing reservoir electrode may be used to dispense a calibration fluid for instrument calibration. A summary of reservoir allocation with reference to is shown in Table 11.

Sample dispensing reservoir electrodes and reagent dispensing reservoir electrodes are interconnected through an arrangement such as a path or array of droplet operations electrodes e.g. electrowetting electrodes . Droplet operations are conducted atop droplet operations electrodes on a droplet operations surface. Electrode arrangement includes a reaction zone . Electrode arrangement also includes a detection spot .

The droplet actuator that includes electrode arrangement is designed to fit onto an instrument deck that houses extra droplet actuator features such as one or more thermal controllers heater assemblies for controlling the temperature within certain processing zones and a fluorimeter for fluorescence detection. In one example the droplet actuator is designed to fit into an NBS LSD100 analyzer instrument that is connected to a desktop computer with SpotLogic software installed. The droplet actuator may be provided and stored in a vacuum sealed aluminum pouch prior to use.

A high level overview of an example of the steps used to prepare a droplet actuator and run a digital microfluidic protocol for multiplexed Pompe Fabry and Hunter s assays is shown in Table 12 below. In this example the instrument is an NBS LSD100 analyzer that is connected to a desktop computer with SpotLogic software installed.

Loading filler fluid in the droplet actuator referring to Step 1 of Table 12 includes the following steps 

Loading reagents and sample fluids in the droplet actuator referring to Step 2 of Table 12 includes the following steps 

The invention provides a digital microfluidic platform and assay methods using dried blood spot DBS samples for detection of the lysosomal storage disorder Hunter s syndrome mucopolysaccharidosis II . Hunter s syndrome is caused by deficient activity of the lysosomal enzyme iduronate 2 sulfate sulphatase IDS . The substrate fluid for IDS in an enzymatic assay may for example be the fluorogenic substrate 4 methylumbelliferyl L iduronide 2 sulfate MU IdoA 2S . The use of MU IdoA 2S as a fluorescent substrate to measure the activity of IDS requires the sequential action of a second enzyme L iduronidase to convert the product of the sulphatase 4 methylumbeliferyl L iduronic acid into iduronic acid and 4 MU as described in reference to . The microfluidic protocol is a single step homogenous assay using purified recombinant iduronidase that is performed at a single pH i.e. pH from about 4.5 5.5 or from about 4.8 5.2 or from about 4.9 5.1 or about 5.0 with a time to result of 8 hours or less. In a preferred embodiment the microfluidic protocol is performed with a time to result from extraction of DBS to result of about 2 hours or about 90 minutes or less. Other embodiments may make use of the alternative substrates described herein.

The digital microfluidics platform may for example include a disposable self contained droplet actuator in which the enzymatic reaction is performed in aqueous droplets within an oil filled gap of the droplet actuator. Samples and assay reagents e.g. substrate stop buffer are manipulated as discrete droplets upon an electrode array digital electrowetting . The electrode array may for example be fabricated on a printed circuit board PCB and enclosed in an oil e.g. polydimethylsiloxane 2 cst Gelest Inc. filled droplet actuator. The droplet actuator may be designed to fit into the deck of or otherwise electronically coupled to an instrument that incorporates all control and detection capabilities. The interface between the droplet actuator and instrument device may for example be provided by spring loaded connector pins between the device and contact pads on the droplet actuator. Samples and reagents are introduced into the droplet actuator through fluid loading ports and on chip reservoirs. The droplet actuator may be inserted into the device which automatically performs all assay manipulations including dispensing required volumes of samples and reagents mixing incubation reaction termination and detection. A droplet may be selectively dispensed from any reservoir transported combined with other droplets and divided thereby replicating all of the required liquid manipulations to perform an enzymatic assay. The volume of a single droplet on the droplet actuator may for example be 300 nL. Detection of the fluorescent sodium umbelliferone product 4 MU 360 nm excitation 460 nm emission may for example be achieved using a fluorimeter module in an epi illumination configuration mounted directly above a droplet actuator detection electrode. Filtered excitation light from an ultraviolet LED is directed at the sample and collected back along the same optical path. Fluorescent light greater than 427 nm wavelength passes through a dichroic beam splitter and an emission filter to a photodiode. The LED excitation and collection electronics may be in a lock in configuration to reduce background noise. Specifically the LED oscillates at 1 kHz and the photodiode signal is sampled at 32 kHz for one second. The reported fluorescent signal is obtained by examining the magnitude of the collected signal at 1 kHz using a fast Fourier transform.

The digital microfluidic protocol for measuring IDS activity included the following steps One droplet of reconstituted DBS extract was combined using droplet operations with one droplet of assay solution 1.125 mM 4 methylumbelliferyl L iduronate 2 sulfate 1 g ml recombinant human L iduronidase 0.1 M sodium acetate and 0.01 M lead acetate pH 5.0 to yield a 2 reaction droplet. The 2 reaction droplet was split using droplet operations to yield two 1 reaction droplets. One 1 reaction droplet was immediately combined using droplet operations with one 1 droplet of termination buffer 0.2 M sodium bicarbonate 0.01 Tween 20 pH 10.0 and transported to the detector electrode to measure the fluorescent signal at zero time. The second 1 reaction droplet was incubated on the droplet actuator for one hour at 37 C. After the incubation period the 1 reaction droplet was combined with a 1 droplet of termination buffer and transported to the detector electrode to measure the fluorescent signal at time t 1 hour. The activity of IDS is expressed in micromoles product formed per hour per liter blood. The IDS activity was calculated based on a 3 mm DBS punch containing 3.1 L of blood. Assay calibration was performed on the droplet actuator using sodium 4 methylumbelliferone in 0.2 M sodium bicarbonate 0.01 Tween 20 pH 10.0 termination buffer as a standard.

In this example an iduronidase concentration of 1 g ml in the IDS assay was sufficient to liberate 4 methylumbelliferone 4 MU from 4 methylumbelliferyl L iduronic acid after IDS removal of the sulfate moiety from 4 methylumbelliferyl L iduronide 2 sulfate data not shown . Dilution 31 fold of blood during extraction of the DBS and the presence of 10 mM lead acetate in the substrate buffer as in section 7.14.1 was sufficient to substantially prevent inhibition of iduronidase 2 sulfate sulfatase activity by anions such as chloride phosphate and sulfate in the reaction droplet.

The IDS activity in extracts of DBS from random newborns n 105 random newborn DBS samples and Hunter patients n 6 affected DBS samples was measured by two operators using two different instruments and droplet actuators. The data show the IDS activity in the Hunter patients range 0 2.7 mean 1.1 median 1.0 mol h L blood with a standard deviation of 1.48 was well below and clearly separated from the IDS activity found in presumed normal newborns range 10.4 56.9 mean 22.9 median 20.2 mole h L blood with a standard deviation of 9.7 . It is not known if any of the DBS from the random newborn pool were from carriers of the Hunter trait.

The invention provides an enymatic assay for Hunter s Syndrome. The microfluidic protocol is a single step homogenous assay using purified recombinant iduronidase that is performed at a single pH i.e. pH 5.0 with a time to result of 8 hours or less. In one embodiment on chip reaction volumes i.e. 2 L Hunter enzyme and 18 L Hunter substrate may be scaled to on bench volumes i.e. 10 L Hunter enzyme and 90 L of Hunter substrate. The incubation time for sufficient enzymatic hydrolysis of substrate and time to result may be selected for applications. The assay may for example use extracts prepared from dried blood spot DBS samples to test for Hunter s disease. A stock solution of Hunter substrate HS 4 methylumbelliferyl L iduronide 2sulfate Na Moscerdam Substrates may be prepared in Hunter substrate buffer HSB 0.1 M Sodium Acetate 10 mM lead II acetate Sigma Aldrich 0.01 w v Tween 20 . The pH of the Hunter substrate buffer HSB may from about 4 to about 6 preferably from about 4.5 to about 5.5 ideally about 5. A stock solution of Hunter enzyme formulation HE recombinant human L iduronidase 10 g 20 L R D Systems may be prepared in Hunter enzyme buffer HEB 0.05 M Sodium Acetate 0.01 w v Tween 20 1 mg mL bovine serum albumin BSA Sigma Aldrich . The pH of the Hunter enzyme buffer HEB may from about 4 to about 6 preferably from about 4.5 to about 5.5 ideally about 5. Stock solutions may be prepared aliquoted and stored at 80 C. until use.

Preparation of the Hunter substrate formulation HS for an on bench Hunter assay includes the following steps 

The invention provides an enzymatic assay for Fabry disease described in reference to Tables 10 and 12 and may be adapted to an on bench protocol. In one embodiment the assay uses extracts prepared from dried blood spot DBS samples to test for Fabry disease. Stock solutions for Fabry substrate 4 Methylumbelliferyl D galactopyranoside 40 MUGal MW 338.3 g mol Sigma may be prepared in Dimethly Sulfoxide DMSO 99.9 at a concentration of 700 mM. Stock solutions of Fabry inhibitor 750 M of N Acetyl D Galactosamine Sigma may be prepared in molecular biology grade water. Fabry substrate and inhibitor stock solutions may be prepared aliquoted and stored at 80 C. until use. The on bench assay may for example be performed in multi well microtiter plates e.g. Costar black half area plates . A microtiter plate reader e.g. Biotek KC4 plate reader may be used for fluorescence detection.

The use of dried blood spots DBS collected on filter paper for nucleic acid based testing of infectious diseases newborn testing and SCIDS is widespread in the public health community. In nucleic acid based testing protocols such as PCR the entire DBS sample is inserted into a PCR tube and amplified. For nucleic acid testing on a droplet actuator the DBS sample may be extracted from the filter paper prior to analysis. However the release of nucleic acids e.g. DNA and RNA from the DBS samples is difficult and inefficient when using chemical extraction methods and may result in gross underestimations of target nucleic acid concentrations by up to several orders of magnitude. The inefficiency of nucleic acid extraction from DBS samples has been attributed to the physical interaction e.g. intertwined of the nucleic acid molecules with the fibers of the filter paper.

The use of DBS collected on filter paper for enzyme based testing of infectious diseases newborn testing and SCIDS is widespread in the public health community. For enzyme based testing on a droplet actuator the DBS sample may be extracted from the filter paper prior to analysis. However the release of enzymes from the DBS samples is difficult and inefficient when using chemical extraction methods and may result in gross underestimations of target enzyme acid concentrations by up to several orders of magnitude. The inefficiency of enzyme extraction from DBS samples has been attributed to the physical interaction e.g. intertwined of the enzyme molecules with the fibers of the filter paper.

The present invention provides methods for using enzymes to release nucleic acids in DBS samples collected on filter paper. In one embodiment a cellulose degrading enzyme such as cellulase may used to partially or totally solubilize the filter paper matrix to release substantially all of the nucleic acid in the sample into an extraction buffer. In one example the cellulase complex from formerly may be used to release nucleic acids in DBS samples collected on filter paper. The cellulase complex from quantitatively converts cellulose to glucose. An example of an on bench protocol to release nucleic acids from a DBS collected on filter paper may include the following The DBS sample may be washed e.g. two or three times with an aqueous buffer to remove soluble PCR inhibitory components from the DBS. The washed DBS sample may be incubated with a cellulose degrading enzyme such as cellulase from to release nucleic acids in the DBS. Nucleic acids in the sample may be concentrated using a magnetic bead based protocol to reduce the sample volume prior to loading the extracted blood sample onto a droplet actuator. The concentrated DBS extract may be loaded onto a sample dispensing reservoir of a droplet actuator and dispensed for quantitative PCR analysis using a digital microfluidic protocol.

The method may be used for the enzymatic assays described herein. In one embodiment a cellulose degrading enzyme such as cellulase may used to partially or totally solubilize the filter paper matrix to release substantially all of the enzyme in the sample into an extraction buffer.

The present invention provides a digital microfluidic platform and assay methods for multiplexed testing of newborns. The digital microfluidic platform includes a multi well droplet actuator that may be configured for one or more molecular assays for newborn testing. Because of the software programmability of digital microfluidics most of the parameters varied between and within protocols such as incubation times sequences of reagent additions and thermal programs may be readily adapted to different assay protocols.

In one embodiment the digital microfluidic platform may be configured for multiplexed testing of newborns that are at risk for hyperbilirubinemia and its most common underlying pathological causes glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase G6PD deficiency and congenital hypothyroidism CH . On bench assays for determination of total bilirubin G6PD activity and CH i.e. TSH assay may be described and implemented on a droplet actuator as discrete step by step droplet based protocols. Assay protocol parameters may for example be selected for linearity increased sensitivity limit of detection specificity droplet carryover and rapid time to result.

The droplet actuator may be designed to fit into or otherwise be electrically coupled to an instrument deck that that houses other components that are external to the droplet actuator. Examples of external components include but are not limited to one or more magnets for immobilization of magnetically responsive beads one or more heater assemblies for controlling the temperature within certain processing zones and a detection system.

Assays for determination of total bilirubin serum or plasma levels may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. In one example the total bilirubin assay kit B576 480 available from Teco Diagnostics may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. The total bilirubin assay is a colorimetric assay based on the reaction between bilirubin and diazotized sufanilic acid to produce azobilirubin which has an absorbance maximum at 560 nm wavelength in the presence of dimethylsulfoxide DMSO solvent. The kit includes the following reagents Total Bilirubin Reagent sulfanilic acid 32 mM hydrochloric acid 165 mM DMSO 7 M 55 w v and Bilirubin Nitrite Reagent sodium nitrite 60 mM Bilirubin Calibrator 20 mg dL N 1 naphthylethylenediamine dihydrochloride salt . Working reagents and calibration solutions were prepared on bench as follows Total bilirubin working reagent was prepared on bench before each experiment by adding 50 L of sodium nitrite reagent to 1.0 mL of total bilirubin reagent. Bilirubin calibrator solutions were prepared on bench at 3 7 10 14 and 20 mg dL by diluting the 20 mg dL calibrator stock using deionized water.

The data shows the calibration curve is linear up to 20 mg dL. Examination of the scatter plot indicates that there is a small proportional bias in the assay on cartridge when compared to the on bench reference assay. This may be expected while using diazo methods for bilirubin assay. The correlation is good and is may be improved by performing the reference assay and the on chip assay at the same time. In this example there was about a one day delay between the reference test and on chip assay. Bilirubin is a very labile analyte and the method comparison should ideally be performed at the same time. In another example a direct bilirubin test as a marker for hyperbilirubinemia may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator.

Neonatal testing test kits for glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase G6PD deficiency are commercially available and may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. In one example the G6PD deficiency neonatal testing test kit available from Interscientific Inc. may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. The assay is based on the oxidation of glucose 6 phosphate to 6 phosphogluconate and reduction of NADP to NADPH in the presence of glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase. The NADPH produced reduces tetrazolium dye MTT in the presence of phenazine methosulfate to produce a colored product with an absorbance peak at 565 nm. The kit includes the following reagents R1 Elution Lysis Buffer R2 Work Reagent R3 Color Reagent R4 CRB Color Reagent Buffer . To prepare the Working Color Reagent 1 part of CRB R4 and 10 parts of Color Reagent R3 are mixed together on bench. The kit also includes assay controls representing normal intermediate and deficient G6PD values.

The data shows good separation between deficient intermediate and normal samples in the on chip G6PD assay.

Congenital hypothyroidism CH is currently screened for in some newborn testing programs using a primary thyroid stimulating hormone TSH assay. Assays for determination of TSH levels may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. In one example the Access HYPERsensitive hTSH kit Cat 33820 available from Beckman Coulter may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. The assay is a paramagnetic particle chemiluminescent assay for the quantitative determination of human thyroid stimulating hormone hTSH . The kit includes the following reagents paramagnetic beads coated with primary capture antibody blocking solution and alkaline phosphatase ALP labeled secondary antibody. Attoglow Michigan Diagnostics may be used as the chemiluminescent substrate.

In another example the chemiluminescent TSH assay may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator as a colorimetric assay. In this example an alkaline phosphatase ALP labeled secondary antibody may be used with a colorimetric substrate such as p nitrophenol phosphate detection wavelength 405 nm for detection of ALP. Assay parameters may be selected for increased sensitivity in the colorimetric assay. For example the sample volume that is incubated with the primary capture beads may be increased from about 0.3 L to about 25 L. The detection reaction time may for example be increased from about 2 minutes to about 15 minutes. The assay temperature may for example be increased from room temperature to 37 C. The path length at the detection window may for example be increased from about 0.3 mm to about 1 mm.

Electrode arrangement includes multiple fluid dispensing reservoirs electrodes which may for example be allocated as sample dispensing reservoirs electrodes e.g. 12 sample dispensing reservoirs electrodes through for dispensing sample fluids e.g. whole blood plasma or serum reagent dispensing reservoirs electrodes e.g. 12 reagent dispensing reservoirs through for dispensing reagent fluids a wash buffer dispensing reservoir a substrate dispensing reservoir and a waste collection site . In one example reagent dispensing reservoir electrodes through may be used to dispense reagents for the TSH assay e.g. primary and secondary antibodies calibration adjustor reagent dispensing reservoir electrodes through may be used do dispense reagents for the total bilirubin assay e.g. reagents and calibrator reagent dispensing reservoir electrodes and may be used dispense dilution buffer reagent dispensing reservoir electrodes through may be used to dispense reagents for the G6PD assay e.g. lysis buffer reagents standard . Sample dispensing reservoirs may be used to dispense plasma and whole blood samples from six different sample sets. For example sample dispensing reservoir electrodes and may be used to dispense plasma and whole blood respectively from a first sample sample dispensing reservoir electrodes and may be used to dispense plasma and whole blood respectively from a second sample sample dispensing reservoir electrodes and may be used to dispense plasma and whole blood respectively from a third sample sample dispensing reservoir electrodes and may be used to dispense plasma and whole blood respectively from a fourth sample sample dispensing reservoir electrodes and may be used to dispense plasma and whole blood respectively from a fifth sample sample dispensing reservoir electrodes and may be used to dispense plasma and whole blood respectively from a sixth sample.

Sample dispensing reservoir electrodes reagent dispensing reservoir electrodes wash buffer dispensing reservoir electrode substrate dispensing reservoir electrode and waste collection site are interconnected through an arrangement such as a path or array of droplet operations electrodes e.g. electrowetting electrodes . Droplet operations are conducted atop droplet operations electrodes on a droplet operations surface. A path of droplet operations electrodes extending from each sample dispensing electrode forms dedicated electrode lanes i.e. 12 dedicated electrode lanes through . Dedicated electrode lanes prove individual reaction zones for processing different samples and sample types i.e. plasma and whole blood . The use of dedicated lanes for sample droplets minimizes cross contamination among samples.

One or more magnets e.g. six magnets through may be positioned in proximity to certain droplet operations electrodes for retaining a quantity of magnetically responsive beads. Each magnet may for example be a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. Each magnet is positioned in a manner which ensures spatial immobilization of magnetically responsive beads during washing steps. Mixing and incubations may be performed on certain droplet operations electrodes away from the magnet.

Electrode arrangement includes multiple detection electrodes e.g. 12 detection electrodes through . Detection electrodes are positioned in proximity to certain droplet operations electrodes in each dedicated electrode lanes . The use of independent detection electrodes for sample droplets minimizes cross contamination among samples. Detection electrodes may be fabricated as optically transparent electrodes as described in reference to . Detection electrodes may be aligned with certain optical detection channels e.g. 560 nm channel or 405 nm channel as described in reference to .

Because of the flexibility and programmability of a droplet actuator the architecture of the droplet actuator may be readily configured to accommodate fewer or more samples.

For total bilirubin and G6PD assays a single point calibration curve may be generated on chip as the assays are substantially linear over the required range. For the TSH assay a master calibration curve for every droplet actuator lot number or reagent batch may be generated. A calibration adjustor may be run on chip to make adjustments to the calibration curve. This approach is commonly used in immunoassay analyzers. Positive and negative controls may be run to identify systematic errors such as a defective droplet actuator or bad reagent lot. A detailed Design Failure Modes and Effects Analysis FMEA may be conducted to identify both external and internal quality control needs.

In one embodiment the invention provides an instrument platform that is suitable for use in limited resource settings. In one embodiment the instrument may be a small bench top instrument that is light weight and portable. In another embodiment the instrument may be a small handheld device e.g. about 10 5 5 that is battery powered e.g. 8 AA batteries . The instrument houses components that are external to the droplet actuator. Examples of external components include but are not limited to one or more magnets for immobilization of magnetically responsive beads one or more heater assemblies for controlling the temperature within certain processing zones and a detection system. A droplet actuator positioned in the instrument deck may be controlled using an electrical controller which for example has a microprocessor and switching circuitry to control 108 high voltage electrical I Os. The electrical interface may for example use spring loaded connector pins to make electrical contact with the droplet actuator. In this example controllers and software provide switching of 108 high voltage channels independently. A high level user friendly software package with varying levels of control for the switching circuitry may be selected to meet requirements of the end user.

One or more flexible heater circuits and passive cooling within the instrument may be used to control the temperature within certain processing zones on the droplet actuator. Because only certain processing zones are heated power consumption during instrument use is substantially reduced. The relationship between heater temperature heater power and droplet temperature may depend on the thermal contact between the heater assembly s and the droplet actuator. Heater assembly materials may be selected to provide reproducible low thermal resistance contact at the heater assembly droplet actuator interface. For example thermally conductive elastomers may be used to facilitate conformation of foil heaters to droplet actuator features. In another example the thermal subsystem may be provided on the droplet actuator. For example heating elements may be fabricated e.g. screen printed directly on the droplet actuator. Because the heating elements are provided on the droplet actuator power consumptions during instrument use may be further reduced.

A droplet actuator may be positioned in instrument deck in proximity to imaging system . In particular droplet actuator may be positioned such that one or more detection electrodes e.g. 4 detection electrodes not shown on droplet actuator are substantially aligned with detection system .

The newborn testing instrument platform of the present invention is a low cost portable and low maintenance instrument. The instrument platform is suitable for use in limited resource settings e.g. developing countries such as China and India and newborn testing environments such as a maternity hospital or birthing center laboratory.

The invention provides assay methods for detection of Sanfilippo A MPS IIIA and B MPS IIIB syndromes on a droplet actuator. Sanfilippo A syndrome and Sanfilippo B syndrome are caused by deficient activity of the lysosomal enzymes heparan sulfate sulfamidase SGSH and alpha N acetylglucosaminidase NAGLU respectively. In one embodiment the invention provides methods for a droplet based enzymatic assay for heparan sulfate sulfamidase activity in a biological sample. The sample for the enzymatic assay may for example be a dried blood extract droplet. The droplet based enzymatic assay for heparan sulfate sulfamidase activity may for example be performed at a pH of about 6. The substrate fluid for heparan sulfate sulfamidase in the enzymatic assay may for example be the fluorogenic substrate 4 methylumbelliferyl N sulpho D glucosaminide MU GlcNS Moscerdam Substrates . Generation of a fluorescent signal from the MU GlcNS substrate requires the activity of two enzymes heparan sulfate sulfamidase and a supplemented second enzyme N acetylglucosaminidase. In this assay heparan sulfate sulfamidase first acts on the MU GlcNS substrate fluid to yield a 4 MU GlcNHintermediate. The second enzyme N acetylglucosaminidase acts on the 4 MU GlcNHintermediate to release 4 methylumbelliferyl 4 MU generating a fluorescent signal. In the absence of heparan sulfate sulfamidase the 4 MU GlcNHintermediate is not formed and no fluorescent signal is produced. In one example the supplemented N acetylglucosaminidase activity may be provided by using yeast glucosidase. In another example the supplemented N acetylglucosaminidase activity may be provided by using recombinant N acetylglucosaminidase.

In another embodiment the invention provides methods for a droplet based one step enzymatic assay for alpha N acetylglucosaminidase NAGLU activity in a biological sample. The sample for the enzymatic assay may for example be a dried blood extract droplet. The substrate fluid for alpha N acetylglucosaminidase in the enzymatic assay may for example be the fluorogenic substrate 4 methylumbelliferyl D N acetylglucosamine Moscerdam Substrates .

8.21 Enzyme Assays for Metachromatic Leukodystrophy MLD and Maroteaux Lamy Syndrome MPS VI on a Droplet Actuator

The invention provides assay methods for detection of metachromatic leukodystrophy MLD and Maroteaux Lamy syndrome on a droplet actuator. MLD and MPS VI are caused by deficient activity of the lysosomal enzymes arylsulfatase A and arylsulfatase B respectively. Current bench based assays for determination of arylsulfatase A and arylsulfatase B activities may be described and implemented on a droplet actuator as discrete step by step droplet based protocols. In one embodiment protocols that use the colorimetric substrate p nitrocatechol sulfate PNCS Sigma may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. In one example a bench based protocol that uses PNCS for detection of arylsulfatase A activity may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. In the bench based assay the assay buffer is 50 mM NaOAc 0.5 M NaCl pH 4.5. At a reaction temperature of 37 C. PNCS may be used as a substrate for detection of both arylsulfatase A and arylsulfatase B activities. For specific detection of arylsulfatase A activity i.e. MLD the enzymatic assay is performed at 0 C. Absorbance is read at 516 nm. Translation of the bench based protocol to a droplet based protocol may for example include modifications in reaction components e.g. assay buffer pH and reaction volumes and incubation time. The droplet actuator may for example be configured for absorbance colorimetric detection. The droplet actuator may be designed to fit onto an instrument deck that houses extra droplet actuator features such as a cooling assembly e.g. 0 C. for performing arylsulfatase A specific reactions i.e. MLD and a detection system for detection of colorimetric reaction products.

In another example a bench based protocol that uses PNCS for detection of arylsulfatase B activity may be adapted for use on a droplet actuator. In the bench based assay the assay buffer is 50 mM MES pH 6.5. Absorbance is read at 516 nm. Translation of the bench based protocol to a droplet based protocol may for example include modifications in reaction components e.g. assay buffer pH and reaction volumes and incubation time. The droplet actuator may for example be configured for absorbance colorimetric detection. The droplet actuator may be designed to fit onto an instrument deck that houses extra droplet actuator features such as a detection system for detection of colorimetric reaction products.

In another embodiment a fluorogenic substrate such as 3 O sulfate D galactosyl 4 methylumbelliferyl may be used for detection of arylsulfatase A activity i.e. MLD . Generation of a fluorescent signal from the 3 O sulfate D galactosyl 4 methylumbelliferyl substrate requires the activity of two enzymes arylsulfatase A and a supplemented second enzyme galactosidase. In this assay arylsulfatase A first acts on the 3 O sulfate D galactosyl 4 methylumbelliferyl substrate fluid to yield a 4 methylumbelliferyl D galactose intermediate. The second enzyme galactosidase acts on 4 methylumbelliferyl D galactose to release 4 methylumbelliferyl 4 MU generating a fluorescent signal. In the absence of arylsulfatase A the 4 methylumbelliferyl D galactose intermediate is not formed and no fluorescent signal is produced. Supplemental galactosidase may be selected such that the enzyme has substantially no activity on 3 O sulfate D galactosyl 4 methylumbelliferyl. In one example the supplemented galactosidase activity may be provided by using bovine testis galactosidase. In another example the supplemented galactosidase activity may be provided by using human galactocerebrosidase.

The enzyme assays of the invention make use of sample droplets and substrate droplets. Sample droplets are blood or blood derived samples such as plasma serum tissue cell fractions and treated fractionated concentrated and or diluted forms of the foregoing. For example diagnosis for Pompe disease is performed on fibroblasts. Other biological fluids may be used as samples nonlimiting examples include tears semen urine saliva amniotic liquid and cerebrospinal fluid. For example in the testing to diagnose Fabry disease tears may be used as the input sample droplet. Still other examples of biological fluids are listed hereinbelow. Biological fluids may be treated as necessary to prepare them for being subjected to the protocols of the invention. For example samples may be diluted or buffered heated or cooled pH may be adjusted and or blood samples may be treated with one or more anticoagulants. Samples may be loaded into a reservoir associated with a droplet actuator and may be dispensed into one or more subsamples. In some cases the subsamples are unit sized subsamples. The subsamples may be in contact with or surrounded with one or more filler fluids.

In one embodiment the sample includes a reconstituted dried blood spot. Typically the subject s skin is pricked using a sterile puncture device such as a lancet. Droplets of blood are spotted onto filter paper and allowed to dry. The filter paper may for example be a Whatman Neonatal Screening Card such as the Whatman 903 Neonatal Blood Collection Card available from GE Healthcare Inc. . To reconstitute the dried blood spots a small disc is punched from the filter paper and placed in solution to yield a solution of reconstituted blood. The disc typically has a diameter of about 3.2 mm though other sizes may be used. The reconstituted blood solution may be loaded onto a droplet actuator where it is subject to droplet operations for conducting one or more assays.

In some embodiments the disc may be punched directly into a droplet actuator reservoir such as a reservoir situated in a droplet operations gap and or a reservoir which is external to the droplet operations gap. The external reservoir may be associated with a fluid passage suitable for flowing reconstituted blood sample into the droplet operations gap. Fluid input reservoirs may be sized to accommodate a punch and reconstitution solution. In one embodiment the well to well pitch is 4.5 mm which is sufficient to fit a 3 mm DBS punch. Reservoirs may thus be arranged to permit use of existing punchers such as the Perkin Elmer DBS Puncher . Since the inner surfaces of the droplet operations gap are hydrophobic the reconstitution solution when added in to the reservoir will remain in the reservoir. Liquid from the reservoir containing the punch can be pulled into the droplet actuator through electric field to form droplets for subsequent enzymatic assays. Reservoirs may be associated with agitators or sonicators to effect mixing of the reconstituted samples. Any tendency of reconstituted sample to flow into the droplet operations gap e.g. during moving or shaking of the droplet actuator may be reduced or minimized by lowering the pressure of the liquid by configuring the reservoir to reduce the height of the liquid column in the reservoir.

In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 8 mm is reconstituted in less than about 1000 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 10 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In other embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 4 mm is reconstituted in less than about 1000 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 10 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 8 mm is reconstituted in less than about 500 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 10 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 4 mm is reconstituted in less than about 500 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 10 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In other embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 8 mm is reconstituted in less than about 1000 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 20 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In other embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 4 mm is reconstituted in less than about 1000 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 20 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 8 mm is reconstituted in less than about 500 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 20 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 4 mm is reconstituted in less than about 500 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 20 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 8 mm is reconstituted in less than about 1000 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 100 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In other embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 4 mm is reconstituted in less than about 1000 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 100 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 8 mm is reconstituted in less than about 500 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 100 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 4 mm is reconstituted in less than about 500 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 100 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 8 mm is reconstituted in less than about 100 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 20 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 4 mm is reconstituted in less than about 100 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 20 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 8 mm is reconstituted in less than about 100 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 100 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In some embodiments a disc having a diameter of less than about 4 mm is reconstituted in less than about 100 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 100 sub droplets and each sub droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay.

In some cases the droplet including an enzyme of interest is prepared by reconstituting a dried blood spot disc having a diameter of less than about 3 mm in less than about 200 L of solution. The sample may for example be dispensed into at least 10 sample droplets and each sample droplet is used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In another embodiment the disc has a diameter of less than about 3 mm the disk is reconstituted in less than about 200 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 5 sub droplets and at least 5 sub droplets are each used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In another embodiment the disc has a diameter of less than about 6 mm the disc is reconstituted in less than about 800 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 5 sub droplets and at least 5 sub droplets are each used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In another embodiment the disc has a diameter of less than about 6 mm the disc is reconstituted in less than about 800 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 5 sub droplets and at least 5 sub droplets are each used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In another embodiment the disc has a diameter of less than about 3 mm the disk is reconstituted in less than about 200 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 10 sub droplets and at least 10 sub droplets are each used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In another embodiment the disc has a diameter of less than about 6 mm the disc is reconstituted in less than about 800 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 10 sub droplets and at least 10 sub droplets are each used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In another embodiment the disc has a diameter of less than about 6 mm the disc is reconstituted in less than about 800 L of solution the sample is dispensed into at least 10 sub droplets and at least 10 sub droplets are each used to conduct a different enzyme assay. In another embodiment the disc has a diameter ranging from about 1 mm to about 6 mm the disc is reconstituted in solution ranging from about 22 L to about 800 L the sample is dispensed into at least 5 sub droplets and at least 5 sub droplets are each used to conduct a different enzyme assay.

In some cases the volume of each of the sample and substrate droplets used to conduct the enzyme assays of the invention may range from about 1 nL to about 1000 L or about 1 nL to about 1000 nL or about 1 nL to about 500 nL or about 1 nL to about 250 nL. Where a dried blood spot is used the sample droplet is prepared by reconstituting a dried blood spot disc. In some cases the disc has a diameter of less than about 10 mm and is reconstituted in less than about 1000 L of solution or less than about 750 L of solution or less than about 500 L of solution or less than about 250 L of solution or ranging from about 25 L to about 750 L or ranging from about 25 L to about 500 L or ranging from about 25 L to about 250 L or ranging from about 25 L to about 150 L. In some cases the sample is dispensed into at least 5 sample droplets or at least 10 sample droplets or at least 25 sample droplets or at least 40 sample droplets. In some cases the dried blood spot disc has a diameter ranging from about 1 mm to about 10 mm or from about 1 mm to about 8 mm or from about 1 mm to about 6 mm or from about 1 mm to about 4 mm.

In another aspect of the invention fresh blood from a subject is used to conduct the assays of the invention. In one aspect less than about 1.0 mL of blood is removed from a newborn. In another aspect less than about 0.1 mL of blood is removed from a newborn. In another aspect less than about 0.05 mL of blood is removed from a newborn. In another aspect less than about 0.01 mL of blood is removed from a newborn. The removed blood may be deposited into a reservoir on a droplet actuator. In some cases a diluents and or buffer droplet may be combined with the fresh blood sample. In some cases a droplet comprising an anticoagulant may be combined with the fresh blood sample or an anticoagulant may be mixed with the sample droplet.

Fluorescence and absorbance detection may be performed on a single droplet actuator such as the droplet actuator device described in reference to . The path lengths for fluorescence detection and or in some embodiments absorbance detection on a droplet actuator may for example be about 300 m. Because of the small path lengths it may be useful to reduce interference of hemoglobin in the DBS extract. For example in an LSD testing assay hemoglobin in a DBS extract does not substantially affect fluorescence at 365 nm. The droplet actuator device may be further adapted for increased detection sensitivity. In one example filler fluids may be selected to substantially minimize partitioning of reaction products into the filler fluid. In another example substrate coatings on bottom and or top substrates of the droplet actuator may be selected to substantially minimize background fluorescence. In addition appropriate filters in a photomultiplier based detection system may be used to increase detection sensitivity. In yet another example because the assays are enzymatic the substrate fluid may be added in excess to yield a better signal over a more prolonged period of time. In yet another example additives such as DMSO and other ionic surfactants may be added to increase the solubility of the reaction products within the aqueous droplet.

The various aspects of the invention may be embodied as a method system computer readable medium and or computer program product. Aspects of the invention may take the form of hardware embodiments software embodiments including firmware resident software micro code etc. or embodiments combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the methods of the invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer useable medium may be utilized for software aspects of the invention. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. The computer readable medium may include transitory and or non transitory embodiments. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include some or all of the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a transmission medium such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code for carrying out operations of the invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the program code for carrying out operations of the invention may also be written in procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may be executed by a processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other component that executes the program code. The program code may be simply referred to as a software application that is stored in memory such as the computer readable medium discussed above . The program code may cause the processor or any processor controlled device to produce a graphical user interface GUI . The graphical user interface may be visually produced on a display device yet the graphical user interface may also have audible features. The program code however may operate in any processor controlled device such as a computer server personal digital assistant phone television or any processor controlled device utilizing the processor and or a digital signal processor.

The program code may locally and or remotely execute. The program code for example may be entirely or partially stored in local memory of the processor controlled device. The program code however may also be at least partially remotely stored accessed and downloaded to the processor controlled device. A user s computer for example may entirely execute the program code or only partly execute the program code. The program code may be a stand alone software package that is at least partly on the user s computer and or partly executed on a remote computer or entirely on a remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a communications network.

The invention may be applied regardless of networking environment. The communications network may be a cable network operating in the radio frequency domain and or the Internet Protocol IP domain. The communications network however may also include a distributed computing network such as the Internet sometimes alternatively known as the World Wide Web an intranet a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN . The communications network may include coaxial cables copper wires fiber optic lines and or hybrid coaxial lines. The communications network may even include wireless portions utilizing any portion of the electromagnetic spectrum and any signaling standard such as the IEEE 802 family of standards GSM CDMA TDMA or any cellular standard and or the ISM band . The communications network may even include powerline portions in which signals are communicated via electrical wiring. The invention may be applied to any wireless wireline communications network regardless of physical componentry physical configuration or communications standard s .

Certain aspects of invention are described with reference to various methods and method steps. It will be understood that each method step can be implemented by the program code and or by machine instructions. The program code and or the machine instructions may create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the methods.

The program code may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct the processor computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the program code stored in the computer readable memory produce or transform an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement various aspects of the method steps.

The program code may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed to produce a processor computer implemented process such that the program code provides steps for implementing various functions acts specified in the methods of the invention.

The foregoing detailed description of embodiments refers to the accompanying drawings which illustrate specific embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments having different structures and operations do not depart from the scope of the present invention. The term the invention or the like is used with reference to certain specific examples of the many alternative aspects or embodiments of the applicants invention set forth in this specification and neither its use nor its absence is intended to limit the scope of the applicants invention or the scope of the claims. This specification is divided into sections for the convenience of the reader only. Headings should not be construed as limiting of the scope of the invention. The definitions are intended as a part of the description of the invention. It will be understood that various details of the present invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

