---

title: In-vehicle shared-screen system with write back to multiple user accounts
abstract: In some examples, a vehicle head unit of a vehicle includes at least one processor; and at least one module operable to: responsive to authenticating a first user at a vehicle head unit of a vehicle, establish a session with a first user identifier, the first user identifier associated with the first user; responsive to authenticating a second user at the vehicle head unit, associate a second user identifier with the session, the second user identifier associated with the second user, wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session; generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session; and store, based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier, the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09608976&OS=09608976&RS=09608976
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09608976
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150526
---
Vehicles such as automobiles motorcycles aircraft and watercraft may include one or more computing devices to assist inform entertain or otherwise provide for interactions with occupants of a vehicle. For instance an automobile may include a vehicle head unit that includes combination of hardware and software such as a touchscreen display and one or more applications. The vehicle head unit may provide one or more user interfaces that allow a user to interact with the vehicle head unit. As an example the vehicle head unit may output a user interface for a navigation application that allows a user to specify a destination and provide navigation instructions to the destination. Some vehicle head units may permit a particular user to log into the vehicle head unit for improved personalization. However some vehicles may include multiple occupants. As such although multiple occupants may share access to the vehicle head unit only a particular user logged into the vehicle head unit may benefit from a personalized experience.

This disclosure is directed to techniques for authenticating multiple users with a vehicle head unit and storing data generated by the vehicle head unit during a shared session to multiple user accounts. For instance the vehicle head unit may be provided in a shared screen environment of a vehicle that includes multiple occupants such as a driver and a passenger. Both the driver and the passenger may have direct access to the vehicle head unit to provide user input in the shared screen environment. In accordance with techniques of the disclosure each of the driver and the passenger may initially authenticate with the vehicle head unit. The vehicle head unit may establish a shared session that includes user identifier information for both the driver and the passenger. During the shared session the vehicle head unit may generate data such as location history data playlist data and search history data to name only a few examples. Rather than writing the generated data to only a single user account the vehicle head unit may write the data to both the driver s user account and the passenger s user account.

Because the vehicle head unit permits multiple users to authenticate and join a shared session various data generated during the shared session may not be restricted to a single user but may be written by the vehicle head unit to each user account of an authenticated user. As such data generated by the vehicle head unit during the shared session may later be used to provide contextually relevant information services and or personalization to each of the driver and passenger. In this way data generated during the shared session which may be useful for providing contextually relevant information services and or personalization is not discarded or only stored to one account but is instead stored by the vehicle head unit to a respective account of each authenticated user. Although described with respect to a vehicle head unit of a vehicle in some examples of this disclosure the techniques may also be implemented in systems of other shared screen environments such television set top boxes video game consoles or any other system in which multiple users share direct physical access to the same system to provide user input.

In some examples a vehicle head unit of a vehicle includes at least one processor and at least one module operable by the at least one processor to responsive to authenticating a first user at a vehicle head unit of a vehicle establish a session with a first user identifier the first user identifier associated with the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the vehicle head unit associate a second user identifier with the session the second user identifier associated with the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and store based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

In some examples a method includes responsive to authenticating a first user at a vehicle head unit of a vehicle establishing by the vehicle head unit a session with a first user identifier the first user identifier associated with the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the vehicle head unit associating by the vehicle head unit a second user identifier with the session the second user identifier associated with the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session generating by the vehicle head unit data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and store by the vehicle head unit and based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

In some examples a non transitory computer readable storage medium included in a vehicle head unit is encoded with instructions that when executed cause at least one processor of a computing device to responsive to authenticating a first user at the vehicle head unit of a vehicle establish a session with a first user identifier the first user identifier associated with the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the vehicle head unit associate a second user identifier with the session the second user identifier associated with the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and store based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

In some examples a method includes responsive to authenticating a first user at a computing device establishing by the computing device a session with a first user identifier of the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the computing device associating with the session by the computing device a second user identifier of the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session wherein the computing device is included in a shared screen environment that includes each of the first and second users the computing device being physically accessible by each of the first and second users in the shared screen environment generating by the computing device data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and storing by the computing device and based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

The details of one or more examples are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Vehicle head unit may include but is not limited to a housing presence sensitive display and control unit . Housing may in some examples be constructed of plastic aluminum steel or any other suitable material. Housing may be a rigid case that encloses and otherwise protects electrical components that provide the functionality of vehicle head unit . In some examples housing may be affixed mounted or otherwise integrated with the automobile dashboard or console. As further described in this disclosure vehicle head unit may include a presence sensitive display that may output a graphical user interface such as graphical user interface . Vehicle head unit may also include a control unit that provides an operating environment for one or one more modules such as user interface UI module authentication module and application modules . In some examples control unit may comprise a combination of hardware and software as further illustrated in . For instance control unit may include one or more processors and storages devices that may execute instructions and store data of one or more modules. Control unit may also be operably coupled to one or more other software and or hardware components to control configure and or communicate information with the components to name only a few example operations.

Vehicle head unit may operate to assist inform entertain or otherwise provide for interactions with occupants of a vehicle. For example vehicle head unit may include one or more applications that provide functionality to one or more occupants of the vehicle. For instance vehicle head unit may provide a navigation service that provides directions to destinations an information retrieval service that provides information in response to queries and or as preemptive assistance or recommendations vehicle data about the vehicle or multimedia such as audio or video to name only a few examples. In this way vehicle head unit may improve the driving or riding experience for one or more occupants of the vehicle.

In some examples vehicle head unit is operated by one or more users in a shared screen environment. In some examples of a shared screen environment multiple users each have physical access to vehicle head unit and may view output of presence sensitive display together. Multiple users may also each provide user input directly and physically at presence sensitive display in a shared screen environment e.g. may physically touch vehicle head unit . In other words when operated in a shared screen environment vehicle head unit is physically and directly accessible both multiple users in the same physical setting. For instance two users in a shared screen environment with vehicle head unit may not be geographically separated from vehicle head unit such that vehicle head unit is physically inaccessible to one or both of the users. Examples of shared screen environments may include a room of a building the interior cabin of a vehicle e.g. a cockpit of an aircraft or a passenger cabin of an automobile to name only a few examples. A shared screen system such as vehicle head unit may be a system in a shared screen environment. A shared screen system can have multiple users authenticated or logged in simultaneously. In some examples the primary task for all users may include interacting with a screen of the shared screen system. For example both the driver and passenger s of a vehicle can interact with the vehicle head unit. A shared screen system may also require or provide for sign in on the system and the ability to sign in multiple accounts corresponding to the different users.

Presence sensitive display of computing device may function as an input device and as an output device for vehicle head unit . In some examples presence sensitive display may include an integrated presence sensitive input device and a display device. For instance presence sensitive display may function as a presence sensitive input device using a presence sensitive screen such as a resistive touchscreen a surface acoustic wave touchscreen a capacitive touchscreen a projective capacitance touchscreen a pressure sensitive screen an acoustic pulse recognition touchscreen or another presence sensitive screen technology. Presence sensitive display may function as an output device such as a display device using any one or more of a liquid crystal display LCD dot matrix display light emitting diode LED display organic light emitting diode OLED display e ink or similar monochrome or color display capable of outputting visible information to the user of computing device . Further details of presence sensitive display are included in the description of .

Presence sensitive display may receive indications of the user input by detecting one or more tap and or non tap gestures continuous gestures or other any touch gestures e.g. multi touch gestures received by vehicle head unit e.g. the user touching or pointing to one or more locations of presence sensitive display with a finger or a stylus pen . Based on indications of user input a display device of presence sensitive display may present output to a user. For instance a display device of presence sensitive display may present various user interfaces of applications e.g. a navigation application executing at vehicle head unit . A user of vehicle head unit may provide user input at a presence sensitive input device of presence sensitive display to interact with one or more of these applications.

As described above vehicle head unit may include application modules and . Modules and may perform operations described herein using software hardware firmware or a mixture of both hardware software and firmware residing in and executing by vehicle head unit or at one or more other remote computing devices. As such modules and may be implemented as hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software. Vehicle head unit may execute any of modules and as or within a virtual machine executing on underlying hardware. Modules and may be implemented in various ways. For example any of modules and may be implemented as a downloadable or pre installed application or app. In another example any of modules and may be implemented as part of an operating system of vehicle head unit .

As shown in vehicle head unit in some examples includes one or more application modules . Application modules may include functionality to perform any variety of operations on vehicle head unit . For instance vehicle head unit may include a navigation application weather application a phone dialer application an information retrieval application a multimedia application a vehicle information application an email application a text messing application instant messaging application social networking application weather application stock market application emergency alert application sports application to name only a few examples. Although shown as operable by vehicle head unit one or more of application modules may be operable by a remote computing device that is communicatively coupled to vehicle head unit . In such examples an application module executing at a remote computing device may cause the remote computing device to send the content and intent information using any suitable form of data communication e.g. wired or wireless network short range wireless communication such as Near Field Communication or Bluetooth etc. . In some examples a remote computing device may be a computing device that is separate from a computing device included in vehicle head unit . For instance the remote computing device may be operatively coupled to vehicle head unit by a network. Examples of a remote computing device may include but is not limited to a server smartphone tablet computing device smart watch and desktop computer. In some examples a remote computing device may not be an integrated component of vehicle head unit .

In the example of application modules may include a navigation application. The navigation application may receive an indication of user input from a user that specifies a destination. The navigation application may cause presence sensitive display to output graphical user interface for display that corresponds to a map. The navigation application may cause graphical user interface to provide one or more directions to the specified destination. For instance the one or more directions may be displayed by presence sensitive display as turn by turn directions based on the vehicle s current location a text list of directions or a high level map view with a progress indicator to the destination.

As shown in vehicle head unit may also include user interface UI module . UI module of vehicle head unit may receive from presence sensitive display one or more indications of user input detected at presence sensitive display . Generally each time presence sensitive display receives an indication of user input detected at a particular location of presence sensitive display UI module may receive information about the user input from presence sensitive display . UI module may assemble the information received from presence sensitive display into a set of one or more events such as a sequence of one or more touch events. Each touch event in the sequence may include data or components that represents parameters e.g. when where originating direction characterizing a presence and or movement of input at presence sensitive display . Each touch event in the sequence may include a location component corresponding to a location of presence sensitive display a time component related to when presence sensitive display detected user input at the location and or an action component related to whether the touch event corresponds to a lift up or a push down at the location.

UI module may determine one or more characteristics of the user input based on the sequence of touch events and include information about these one or more characteristics within each touch event in the sequence of touch events. For example UI module may determine a start location of the user input an end location of the user input a density of a portion of the user input a speed of a portion of the user input a direction of a portion of the user input and a curvature of a portion of the user input. UI module may transmit indications of user input to other modules such as application modules and or authentication module . UI module may determine one or more single or multi touch gestures provided by a user. UI module may also act as an intermediary between various components of vehicle head unit to make determinations based on input detected by presence sensitive display and generate output presented by presence sensitive display . For instance UI module may receive data from one or modules and and cause presence sensitive display to output content such as graphical use interface for display.

As shown in vehicle head unit may include an authentication module . Authentication module may authenticate one or more users with vehicle head unit to for example provide greater personalization with vehicle head unit or to enforce privacy at vehicle head unit to name only a few examples. A user may authenticate with vehicle head unit in a variety of ways. In some examples authentication module may provide a graphical user interface at presence sensitive display that allows a user to input a username and password. In some examples the username may be an identifier of the user.

In other examples the user may authenticate with vehicle head unit using a computing device associated with the user. For instance a first user may possess computing device A. The first user may be authenticated or otherwise associated with computing device A. Accordingly the first user may use computing device A to authenticate with vehicle head unit . For instance computing device A may authenticate with vehicle head unit using a wireless or wired communicate channel. Examples may include Universal Serial Bus USB Near Field Communication NFC Bluetooth and Wireless Internet Service Provider roaming WISPr to name only a few examples.

In some examples in response to vehicle head unit detecting computing device A authentication module may provide one or more security challenges at presence sensitive display and or computing device A to authenticate the user. For instance the security challenge may require the user provide one or more indications of user input that proves the user s identity. Examples of such indications of user input may include but are not limited to a confirmation approval a password username physical appearance of user physiological property of user device identifier of computing device A hardware token or software credential. Authentication module may confirm that the one or more indications of user input that proves the user s identity. Authentication module may confirm that the one or more indications of user input prove the user s identity either locally at vehicle head unit and or may query one or more remote computing devices such as remote computing device . If the one or more indications of user input do not prove the user s identity the user is not authenticated with vehicle head unit until authentication occurs. In some examples vehicle head unit may authenticate a user by identifying the particular user without requiring the user to provide any credentials or confirmation. Additional techniques for authenticating with vehicle head unit are further described in this disclosure.

In response to authenticating a user authentication module may establish a session. In some examples a session may include state information that is stored and managed by authentication module . For instance authentication module may generate a session object corresponding to the session that includes one or more properties and or operations to store and manage the state information. State information associated with a session may include but is not limited to a session identifier one or more user identifiers that are associated with the session and expiration information for the session. In some examples a session may have a defined lifetime after which it expires. A session may expire after a particular period of time or when one or more users exit the session. When the session expires authentication module may destroy the session object and or the state information for the session. In some examples authentication module may store the state information to non volatile store and then destroy the session object.

Vehicle head unit may use the session information in a variety of ways. For instance a navigation application included in application modules may use the session information to store location history with one or more user accounts. As an example while the vehicle driving to a destination the navigation application may access a user identifier included in the state information and store the location information of the vehicle with a user account corresponding to the user identifier. Accordingly vehicle head unit and or remote computing device may use the location history to provide contextually relevant information services and or personalization for the user. As another example an information retrieval application may access a user identifier included in the state information and store previous queries and or search results with a user account corresponding to the user identifier. More generally one or more of application modules may use the state information associated with the session to create read update and delete information that is specific to a particular user that has authenticated with vehicle head unit .

In accordance with techniques of the disclosure multiple users may authenticate with vehicle head unit . For instance authentication module may establish a shared session that includes a respective user identifier for each user authenticated with vehicle head unit . Rather than writing data generated by vehicle head unit to only a single user account vehicle head unit may write the to the respective user account of each authenticated user. Because vehicle head unit permits multiple users to authenticate and join the shared session various data generated during the shared session may not be restricted to a single user but may be written to each user account. As such data generated by vehicle head unit during the shared session may later be used to provide contextually relevant information services and or personalization to each respective user.

In operation authentication module may establish a session with a first user identifier of the first user that is associated with computing device A in response to authenticating the first user at vehicle head unit . A second user associated with computing device B may also authenticate with authorization module . In response to authenticating the second user authentication module may associate a second user identifier of the second user with the session. In this way each of the user and the second user may be concurrently associated with the session. In some examples graphical user interface may include one or more indicators A and B that indicate which users and or how many users are presented authenticated in the shared session with vehicle head unit . As further described in this disclosure by allowing both the first and second users to authenticate with vehicle head unit applications that generate data may use the state information for the session to write data to user accounts of both the first and second users. Although the example of illustrates techniques of the disclosure with two users the techniques may be used for any number of two or more users.

Vehicle head unit may generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session. For instance applications and may generate such data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session. In the example of a navigation application of application modules may generate location history data that corresponds to various locations that the vehicle has travelled to over time. The navigation application may access state information for the shared session that includes the first user identifier and the second user identifier.

The navigation application may store based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier. In some examples vehicle head unit may store the data by storing the data locally at vehicle head unit and or by storing the data remotely at a remote computing device such as remote computing device . For instance vehicle head unit may provide an application programming interface API that may be called by applications to store data to a user account. When an application calls the API vehicle head unit may determine the user identifier for each authenticated user from state information that is maintained by authentication module for the shared session. Based on the set of user identifiers and the data vehicle head unit may write the data to each user account locally or may send a request to remote computing device via network to store the data which includes the set of user identifiers and the data. As further described in this disclosure vehicle head unit may in some examples store only a subset of information to one or more user accounts.

In the example of remote computing device may store information for multiple different user accounts. A user account may include identifying information of the user such as a name and or user identifier. Additional data for a user may also be associated with the user account such as user preferences location history data playlist data and search history data to name only a few examples. Remote computing device may use the data associated with a user to provide contextually relevant information services and or personalization to the user. For instance based on the location history information remote computing device may provide assistance or suggestions to vehicle head unit and or one or more of computing devices A B that are contextually relevant based on the location of the vehicle. For instance if remote computing device determines that the first user is a vegetarian remote computing device may send vehicle head unit a list of vegetarian restaurants that are nearby the location of the vehicle. Presence sensitive display may output the list of vegetarian restaurants for display.

In some examples vehicle head unit may output information for display that corresponds to multiple users. For instance vehicle head unit may receive the data for multiple users from remote computing device and or one or more of computing device A B. As one example vehicle head unit may receive data indicating points of interest along a current navigation route some of which correspond to the first user and some of which correspond to the second user. For example point of interest A may correspond to a first user while point of interest B may correspond to a second user. As further described in this disclosure vehicle head unit may in some examples display only a subset of information to one or more user accounts. Because vehicle head unit is operated in a shared screen environment with multiple users the points of interest that are displayed by presence sensitive display may be relevant to both the first user and the second user. In other words rather than only displaying information relevant to one of the users vehicle head unit may display information relevant to both users because multiple users may each authenticate and interact with vehicle head unit . As such techniques of the disclosure implemented at vehicle head unit may provide for improved personalization and or an improved user experience for multiple occupants which may not otherwise be available if only a single user were able to authenticate at a time with vehicle head unit .

Throughout the disclosure examples are described where a computing device and or a computing system may analyze information e.g. locations speeds etc. associated with a computing device only if the computing device receives permission from the user to analyze the information. For example in situations discussed below in which the computing device may collect or may make use of information associated with the user the user may be provided with an opportunity to provide input to control whether programs or features of the computing device can collect and make use of user information e.g. information about a user s current location current speed etc. or to dictate whether and or how to the computing device may receive content that may be relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used by the computing device and or computing system so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined about the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by the computing device.

As shown in the example of computing device includes presence sensitive display one or more output devices one or more input devices one or more sensors a power source one or more communication units and a control unit that include one or more processors and one or more storage devices . Storage devices of computing device also include UI module authentication module application modules session data and operating system . Communication channels may interconnect one or more of the components and for inter component communications physically communicatively and or operatively . In some examples communication channels may include a system bus a network connection one or more inter process communication data structures or any other components for communicating data between hardware and or software.

As shown in control unit may store and execute the data and instructions of one or more applications modules or other software. Although illustrates control unit as including one or more processors and one or more storages device control unit may include more or fewer components than shown in . For instance control unit may include one or more output devices input devices input output ports or interface sensors and or communication units to name only a few examples. In other examples control unit may only include one or more processors. In any case control unit may provide an operating environment for one or one more modules such as user interface UI module authentication module application modules and operating system .

One or more processors may implement functionality and or execute instructions within computing device . For example processors of computing device may receive and execute instructions stored by storage devices that provide the functionality of UI module authentication module application modules and operating system . These instructions executed by processors may cause computing device to store and or modify information within storage devices during program execution. Processors may execute instructions of UI module authentication module application modules operating system and use data of session data to perform one or more operations. That is UI module authentication module application modules operating system may be operable by processors to perform various functions described herein.

One or more input devices of computing device may receive input. Examples of input are tactile audio kinetic and optical input to name only a few examples. Input devices of computing device in one example include a mouse keyboard voice responsive system video camera buttons control pad microphone or any other type of device for detecting input from a human or machine. In some examples an input device may be a presence sensitive input device which may include a presence sensitive screen or touch sensitive screen to name only a few examples.

One or more output devices of computing device may generate output. Examples of output are tactile audio and video output. Output devices of computing device in one example include a presence sensitive screen sound card video graphics adapter card speaker cathode ray tube CRT monitor liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device for generating output to a human or machine. Output devices may include display devices such as cathode ray tube CRT monitor liquid crystal display LCD Light Emitting Diode LED or any other type of device for generating tactile audio and or visual output.

In some examples presence sensitive display of computing device may include functionality of input devices and or output devices . In the example of presence sensitive display may include a presence sensitive input device such as a presence sensitive screen or touch sensitive screen. In some examples presence sensitive input device may detect an object at and or near the presence sensitive input device. As one example range presence sensitive input device may detect an object such as a finger or stylus that is within 2 inches or less of presence sensitive input device . Presence sensitive input device may determine a location e.g. an x y coordinate of the presence sensitive input device at which the object was detected. In another example range presence sensitive input device may detect an object 6 inches or less from presence sensitive input device and other ranges are also possible. Presence sensitive input device may determine the location of presence sensitive input device selected by a user s finger using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques.

In some examples presence sensitive display may also provide output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli as described with respect to output devices . For instance presence sensitive display may include display device that presents a graphical user interface. Display device may be any type of output device that provides visual output such as described with respect to output devices . While illustrated as an integrated component of computing device presence sensitive display may in some examples be an external component that shares a data path with other components of computing device for transmitting and or receiving input and output. For instance presence sensitive display may be a built in component of computing device located within and physically connected to the external packaging of computing device . In another example presence sensitive display may be an external component of computing device located outside and physically separated from the packaging of computing device e.g. a monitor a projector etc. that shares a wired and or wireless data path with a tablet computer . In some examples presence sensitive display when located outside of and physically separated from the packaging of computing device may be implemented by two separate components a presence sensitive input device for receiving input and a display device for providing output.

One or more communication units of computing device may communicate with external devices by transmitting and or receiving data. For example computing device may use communication units to transmit and or receive radio signals on a radio network such as a cellular radio network. In some examples communication units may transmit and or receive satellite signals on a satellite network such as a Global Positioning System GPS network. Examples of communication units include a network interface card e.g. such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver a GPS receiver or any other type of device that can send and or receive information. Other examples of communication units may include Bluetooth GPS 3G 4G and Wi Fi radios found in mobile devices as well as Universal Serial Bus USB controllers and the like.

One or more storage devices within computing device may store information for processing during operation of computing device . In some examples one or more of storage devices are temporary memories meaning that a primary purpose of the one or more storage devices is not long term storage. Storage devices on computing device may be configured for short term storage of information as volatile memory and therefore not retain stored contents if deactivated. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art.

Storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. Storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than volatile memory. Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information as non volatile memory space and retain information after activate off cycles. Examples of non volatile memories include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories. Storage devices may store program instructions and or data associated with UI module authentication module application modules session data and operating system .

As shown in computing device may include one or more sensors . Sensors may include an accelerometer that generates accelerometer data. Accelerometer data may indicate an acceleration and or a change in acceleration of computing device . Sensors may include a gyrometer that generates gyrometer data. Gyrometer data may indicate a physical orientation and or change in physical orientation of computing device . In some examples the orientation may be relative to one or more reference points. Sensors may include a magnetometer that generates magnetometer data. Magnetometer data may indicate the magnetization of an object that is touching or in proximity to computing device . Magnetometer data may indicate the Earth s magnetic field and in some examples provide directional functionality of a compass. Sensors may include an ambient light sensor that generates ambient light data. The ambient light data may indicate an intensity of light to which computing device is exposed. Sensors may include a proximity sensor that generates proximity data. Proximity data may indicate whether an object is within proximity to computing device . In some examples proximity data may indicate how close an object is to computing device . In some examples sensors may include a clock that generates a date and time. The date and time may be a current date and time. Sensors may include temperature sensor that measures ambient temperature in proximity to sensors . The ambient temperature may indicate an intensity of temperature.

As shown in computing device may include a power source . In some examples power source may be a battery. Power source may provide power to one or more components of computing device . Examples of power source may include but are not necessarily limited to batteries having zinc carbon lead acid nickel cadmium NiCd nickel metal hydride NiMH lithium ion Li ion and or lithium ion polymer Li ion polymer chemistries. In some examples power source may have a limited capacity e.g. 1000 3000 mAh .

In accordance with techniques of the disclosure a first user may authenticate with computing device . For instance authentication module in conjunction with one or more or communication units may detect that first computing device A of the first user is in proximity to computing device . Accordingly authentication module may cause the first user to receive one or more authentication challenges or in some examples no challenge at one or more of presence sensitive display and or first computing device A. Presence sensitive display may receive as user input one or more credentials or authorizations in response to the challenge in order to authenticate with computing device .

Authentication module upon authenticating the first user may establish a session with a first user identifier associated with the first user. For instance when authenticating with authentication module the first user and or the first computing device may provide computing device with the first user identifier. The first user identifier may be associated with a first user account associated with the first user. In some examples data associated with the first user account may be stored at one or more of computing device the first computing device of the user and or a remote computing device. As described in this disclosure the session may include state information or session data associated with the session such as the first user identifier.

A second user may also authenticate at computing device . For instance authentication module may detect that second computing device B of the second user is in proximity to computing device . Accordingly authentication module may cause the second user to receive one or more authentication challenges or in some examples no challenge at one or more of presence sensitive display and or first computing device A. For instance second computing device B may present a challenge to the user based on communication with authentication module and receive as user input one or more credentials or authorizations that are sent to authentication module in order to authenticate with computing device .

Authentication module upon authenticating the second user may associate a second user identifier of the second user with the session that also includes the first user identifier. In this way the first and second user identifiers may both be included in or associated with the session. As such the first and second users may be concurrently authenticated in the session. One or more of authentication modules may generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session. For instance application modules may include a navigation application that generates location history information. The navigation application may store the generated data to both a first user account and a second user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with a second user identifier. For instance the navigation application may access session data to determine first and second user identifiers of the first and second respective users and store the data at a remote computing device that includes user accounts for the first and second users. For instance one or more of communication units may send one or more requests to the remote computing device that include the generated data and identifiers of the first and second users. In some examples communication units may send the requests to the remote computing device to store the data using a connection between vehicle head unit and the remote computing device which does not include a computing device of a user in the shared screen environment. In other examples communication units may send the requests to the remote computing device using a connection between vehicle head unit and the remote computing device which includes a computing device of a user in the shared screen environment.

In some examples a user may remove another user from a session that is maintained by vehicle head unit . For instance a user may provide a user input to vehicle head unit that removes another user from the shared session that includes both users. In some examples vehicle head unit may store metadata to users accounts in addition to the data generated by vehicle head unit that is stored to the users accounts. For instance the metadata may include user identifiers of other users are also in the shared session. As an example vehicle head unit may store data such as location history to first and second users accounts. Vehicle head unit may store the location history data and the user identifier of the second user to the first user s account. Similarly vehicle head unit may store the location history data and the user identifier of the first user to the second user s account. More generally information about other users in the same shared session may be stored a particular user s account as metadata.

As described in this disclosure techniques of the disclosure allow multiple users to access their data on vehicle head unit at the same time because the multiple users have authenticated or are otherwise identified as being in the vehicle with vehicle head unit at the same time. Techniques of the disclosure may allow multiple users to authenticate on a system level with operating system in some examples. In other examples vehicle head unit may allow multiple users to authenticate on an application level with one or more particular applications of application modules . In some examples authentication module may interoperate with one or more of application modules to provide in application integration for improved personalization. For instance in the example of a navigation application the navigation application may cause its corresponding graphical user interface to include for example users Fabian and Dean the text Fabian s destinations and Dean s destinations instead of generically showing Suggested Destinations. As such the display destinations may be more personalized on a per user account thereby providing for easier identification of the destinations.

As described in this disclosure data from multiple different user accounts may be displayed by presence sensitive display at the same time or during a session that concurrently includes the multiple users. For instance a multimedia application of application modules may determine respective playlist information for both a first user and a second user included in a session. Presence sensitive display may output the playlist information for both the first and second users for display. In some examples presence sensitive display may receive user input from the second user to queue music from either or both of the first user and the second user playlists. Although described with respect to a playlist such interaction in which a user selects and or interacts with outputted information of the user or another user in the session may be applied to any shared information outputted by computing device . For example locations and suggested destinations may be determined by computing device from both passenger s account and driver s account and in some examples added to a multi waypoint route . Computing device may write destinations travelled to the history of both the driver and the passenger as described in accordance with techniques of this disclosure.

As further described in the operations of because vehicle head unit may be used in a shared screen environment privacy controls may be applied by vehicle head unit to prevent the output of private information associated with one or more users and or the storing of data to one or more user accounts. For instance a first user may have previously navigated with a vehicle to a jewelry store to purchase an engagement ring. At a later time the first user authenticated with vehicle head unit may desire that vehicle head unit not output for display the location of the jewelry store in the location history because a second user who also occupies the same vehicle may be the future recipient of the engagement ring. As further described in vehicle head unit may use privacy controls to restrict the display of information at vehicle head unit and or storing of data to multiple user accounts.

In some examples a first user and a second user may each authenticate with vehicle head unit . As such vehicle head unit may receive or otherwise determine information to display for at least one of the first and second users . For example in response to authenticating the first user vehicle head unit may receive location history for the first user from a remote computing device. Vehicle head unit may include a navigation application which may display in a graphical user interface information such as one or more points of interest or previously visited locations based on the location history.

Before displaying the information vehicle head unit may determine whether multiple users are authenticated in session maintained by vehicle head unit . If multiple users are not authenticated in the session for instance only the first user is authenticated in a session with vehicle head unit then vehicle head unit may output the information associated with the first user for display such as one or more points of interest or previously visited locations based on the location history. If however multiple users are authenticated in a session at vehicle head unit vehicle head unit may determine whether one or more privacy controls are satisfied .

In some examples vehicle head unit may allow an authenticated user to set or define one or more privacy controls that are based on vehicle head unit detecting the presence of an unauthenticated user in proximity to vehicle head unit . For instance vehicle head unit may authenticate a first user and detect that a second user is in proximity to vehicle head unit e.g. using a weight sensor in a vehicle seat . Vehicle head unit may suppress a set of information associated with the first user from being output for display based on a privacy control that checks whether an unauthenticated user is present in the vehicle with the authenticated user.

In some examples a privacy control may be represented by a rule condition or criterion. The rule condition or criterion may specify one or more properties or characteristics of information. Example properties or characteristics may include but are not limited to creator of the information sender of the information recipient of the information type of information content of the information time information was created time information was sent and time information was received. Vehicle head unit may determine that a privacy control is satisfied when one or more properties or characteristics of the information match one or more properties or characteristics of the privacy control or a probability of such a match is greater than a threshold. In some examples a privacy control may include one or more corresponding actions that vehicle head unit performs when the privacy control is satisfied. For example an action may include suppressing the display of a set of information such that the set of information is not output for display. In some examples the action may include outputting a prompt before the information is output for display which allows a user to select whether to output a set of information for display at vehicle head unit . In some examples an action may include outputting a set of information. In some examples a privacy control may be associated with or specific to a particular user. In some examples a privacy control may be agnostic to any particular user and instead be associated with or specific to particular information that matches one or more properties or characteristics of the privacy control.

In some examples if no privacy control is satisfied vehicle head unit may output the information for display . For instance if no privacy controls correspond to the determined information vehicle head unit may display the information. If vehicle head unit determines that a privacy control is satisfied vehicle head unit may perform a corresponding action associated with the privacy control. For instance in the example of vehicle head unit in response to determining that a privacy control for the location history is satisfied suppresses the information from being output such that the location history is not output .

In some examples a user may define a privacy control by interacting with a user interface provided by one or more of vehicle head unit a computing device of the user e.g. a smartphone tablet desktop computer laptop computer etc. or a remote computing device. In some examples the graphical user interface may allow the user to specify one or more properties or characteristics for the privacy control. For instance a user may specify a type of information e.g. email social networking text message multimedia etc. a particular content of information e.g. based on category keyboard or other input and or any other property or characteristic for the privacy control. As an example first user may want to play some music in a vehicle using vehicle head unit but does not want to make the first user s suggested destinations calendar events or contacts available for display to a second user in the same vehicle. Using one or more privacy controls for restricted personalization the first user is able to specify the data they want to share. In this way such techniques may contribute towards a friend of a friend use case and could take the form of enabling certain categories of data at login e.g. Allow Music disallow Maps or could take the form of second data to vehicle head unit using one or more wired or wireless protocols. In some examples the property or characteristics of a privacy control may be based on a social graph of the user defining the privacy control. In some examples the default action may be to suppress information that matches the one or more properties or characteristics defined by the user for the privacy control. Once the user has defined the privacy control the user may provide a user input to store and or implement the privacy control at vehicle head unit .

In some examples a computing device may determine automatically determine one or more privacy controls. For instance a computing device may define or determine one or more privacy controls based on a dictionary of sensitive words. Vehicle head unit may suppress information that matches one or more of the sensitive words. In some examples vehicle head unit may suppress output of information for a first user authenticated with vehicle head unit if a second user authenticated with or detected by vehicle head unit is not included in the first user s social graph that is included in a social networking service.

In some examples vehicle head unit may use one or more privacy controls to prevent data from being stored to one or more user accounts. For instance a privacy control may cause vehicle head unit to refrain from storing data to one or more users accounts. That is vehicle head unit may write data for a first user authenticated with vehicle head unit to a first corresponding user account but may not write data for a second user authenticated at vehicle head unit with the first user to a second user account associated with the second user. As discussed above a privacy control that causes data to be written to fewer than all user accounts of users authenticated in a session with vehicle head unit may be defined manually by a user or automatically generated by one or more of vehicle head unit a computing device of a user and or a remote computing device e.g. a server . As an example although a first user may authenticate with vehicle head unit data indicating that the user travelled to jewelry store e.g. to purchase an engagement ring may not be stored to a user account of the first user based on a privacy control. In such examples while the user is authenticated with vehicle head unit the user may access data already included in his user account but data e.g. location history of the jewelry store is not stored to a user account of the first user.

In some examples vehicle head unit may store data to one or more user accounts without outputting the data for display based on one or more privacy controls. For instance if a first user authenticates with vehicle head unit and travels to a particular location vehicle head unit may store data to the user account of the first user without outputting for display an indicator e.g. a name of the location of the data. As an example a taxi driver may wish to store the destinations he s travelled to throughout the day but does not want to share that information with a passenger. The taxi driver may activate this mode or apply such a privacy control to store data to the user account of the first user without outputting for display an indicator when they wish for data to be written to their account but not visible on the shared screen.

In some shared screen environments different users may have different roles. For instance a driver and passenger may have different roles in a vehicle that includes vehicle head unit . The driver may drive the vehicle while the passenger may not. Vehicle head unit may differentiate between different users that are authenticated with or identified by vehicle head unit . Vehicle head unit may differentiate between different users based on one or more criteria. As further described below vehicle head unit may determine one or more indications for the criteria that indicate at least a role or identity of at least one user in shared screen environment that includes vehicle head unit . Vehicle head unit may compare the one or more indications to a set of one or more criteria to determine the role or identity of the at least one user. Responsive to receiving an indication of user input from the user vehicle head unit may execute based at least in part on the role or identity of the at least one user one or more operations. That is based on differentiating users vehicle head unit may determine which user provided a user input and in some examples based on differentiating users vehicle head unit may determine whether or not to perform particular operations with respect to one or more users data.

Criteria for differentiating between different users may include determining the complexity of a task requested by a user. If the vehicle head unit determines that the complexity of a task satisfies a threshold vehicle head unit may determine that the user input is from a second user e.g. a passenger rather than a first user e.g. a driver . If the vehicle head unit determines that the complexity of a task does not satisfy a threshold vehicle head unit may determine that the user input is from the first user e.g. a driver rather than the second user e.g. a passenger . Indications for the complexity may include complexity of the requested task the complexity of the application performing the task or the type of application to name only a few examples.

In some examples criteria for differentiating between different users may include determining one or more indications of the type of input such as using voice and or video recognition e.g. driver versus providing touch input e.g. passenger to vehicle head unit to identify a particular user. In some examples criteria for differentiating between different users may include determining which application or type of task the request or user input is directed to. For instance vehicle head unit may determine that a user request or indication of input for a navigation or phone application may be provided by a first user e.g. a driver which is more likely to require the use of such applications for safety reasons than a second user e.g. a passenger . Criteria for differentiating between users may be determined by triangulating the positions of users devices in cars using indications such as high frequency audio the specific key used to unlock or start the car and or by a user explicitly indicating her account in the UI. Criteria for differentiating users may be based on one or more indications of the order in which the users authenticate with vehicle head unit e.g. driver first and passenger second . Vehicle head unit may use any combination of one or more criteria to differentiate between users.

Based on determining that an input has been received from a particular user or that the user has a particular role e.g. driver vs passenger vehicle head unit may determine whether or not to perform particular operations. For instance vehicle head unit may read data from a particular user account based on determining that an input has been received from a particular user or that the user has a particular role. As an example if vehicle head unit determines that a driver has provided an indication of user input to call a particular contact in an address book and the request satisfies one or more criteria vehicle head unit may search and call the particular contact in the address book of the driver rather than searching or calling a contact in the address book with the same name. In some examples vehicle head unit may only allow a particular user to perform particular actions or operate particular applications. For instance vehicle head unit may restrict a phone dialing application to use by the driver only based on determining which user is the driver.

In another example vehicle head unit may write data to a particular user account based on determining that an input has been received from a particular user or that the user has a particular role. As an example if vehicle head unit receives a user input from a passenger to indicate that she likes or prefers a particular song that is being output and one or more criteria are satisfied the indication of the passenger s preference may be written only to the passenger s user account. In some examples vehicle head unit may apply a different and stronger weighting to the passenger s preference for data e.g. a song or song preference that is written to the passenger s user account while also applying a weaker weighting to the data for the driver s user account because the passenger explicitly provided feedback while the driver did not.

In the example of vehicle head unit may provide stronger or weaker authentication challenges in a shared screen environment based on one or more trust relationships between users that authenticate with vehicle head unit . If for example the degree of trust between users is greater vehicle head unit may provide a weaker authentication challenge to one or more of the users. By contrast if the degree of trust is weaker between users vehicle head unit may provide a stronger authentication challenge to one or more of the users. In some examples the degree of trust may be defined in a range of degrees e.g. from weakest to strong degree of trust by vehicle head unit one or more computing devices associated with one or more users and or one or more remote computing devices.

In the example of vehicle head unit may determine an authentication request or otherwise receive a request for a user to authenticate with vehicle head unit . For instance a first computing device associated with a first user may be detected by vehicle head unit as being in proximity to vehicle head unit . For instance the first computing device may be in proximity to vehicle head unit if the first computing device within is a range of the at least one wireless communication channel in some examples a short range wireless communication channel such as Bluetooth NFC etc. between the first computing device and vehicle head unit . Vehicle head unit may detect whether any other users are in proximity to vehicle head unit . For instance vehicle head unit may determine whether a second computing device associated with a second user is in proximity to vehicle head unit . If no other users are detected in proximity to vehicle head unit then vehicle head unit may present a weaker security challenge such as no security challenge at all or a request that the user confirm without any security credential that the user chooses to authenticate with vehicle head unit .

If vehicle head unit determines that a second user is in proximity to vehicle head unit and or is in the shared screen environment for vehicle head unit then vehicle head unit may determine whether a trust relationship between the first and second users satisfies a threshold . In some examples a trust relationship may be an association between the first user and a second user that indicates a trust level between the first and second user. In some examples a trust relationship may be stored or defined by vehicle head unit as data in any suitable data structure such as an array table graph or list to name only a few examples. For instance the trust relationship may indicate one or more users and or a trust level. In some examples a user may manually define a trust relationship by providing user input to a computing device while in other examples the computing device may automatically generate a trust relationship. For instance a user may specify one or more other users for a trust relationship and a trust level associated with the trust relationship. In some examples a computing device e.g. a computing device included in vehicle head unit may define a trust relationship in response to multiple users authenticating into the computing device simultaneously for instance joining a shared session concurrently. In some examples the trust relationship may be based on degree of separation between users in a social graph of a social network service wherein a greater degree of separation may indicate a lower trust level.

To determine whether a trust relationship satisfies a threshold vehicle head unit may determine a trust relationship associated with at least one of the first user and the second user. For instance vehicle head unit may determine a trust relationship associated with the first user. Vehicle head unit may determine whether the trust level for the trust relationship satisfies a threshold. For instance if the trust level does not satisfy the threshold vehicle head unit may provide a stronger authentication challenge to the first user or the second user . In some examples vehicle head unit may determine that no trust relationship exists between the first and second users. In such examples if vehicle head unit determines that no trust relationship exists between the first and second users vehicle head unit may determine that no trust relationship satisfies a threshold and vehicle head unit may provide a stronger authentication challenge to the first user or the second user . If the trust level of the trust relationship associated with the first user satisfies the threshold vehicle head unit may provide a weaker authentication challenge . Authentication challenges ordered from weakest to strongest may include but are not limited to no challenge detect device of user e.g. detect device identifier of device associated with user user confirmation without any security credentials face or voice recognition user pin username and password combination and multi factor authentication to name only a few examples. As such in some examples e.g. no challenge or detecting device of user in proximity to vehicle head unit authentication and or identification of a user may often be automatic.

Based on the authentication challenge vehicle head unit may authenticate the first user using the selected authentication challenge that is based on the trust relationship . Vehicle head unit may then authenticate a second user. In some examples vehicle head unit may authenticate the second user using an authentication challenge that is of the same strength as the authentication challenge provided to the first user. In other examples vehicle head unit may authenticate the second user using an authentication challenge that is strong or weaker than the authentication challenge provided to the first user. In some examples once the first user and second user have authenticated with vehicle head unit then vehicle head unit may store a trust relationship that identifies the first and second users such that at a later time if the first and second users attempt to authenticate in a concurrent session vehicle head unit may provide a weaker authentication challenge than the previous or initial instance in which the first user and second user authenticated into vehicle head unit to join the same session.

In the example of computing device may initially authenticate a first user at vehicle head unit . For instance computing device may detect that a first computing device of the first user is in proximity to computing device . Accordingly the first user may receive one or more authentication challenges or in some examples no challenge at one or more of computing device and or the first computing device. The user may provide one or more credentials or authorizations in response to the challenge in order to authenticate with computing device .

Computing device upon authenticating the first user may establish a session with a first user identifier associated with the first user . For instance when authenticating with computing device the first user and or the first computing device may provide computing device with the first user identifier. The first user identifier may be associated with a first user account associated with the first user. In some examples data associated with the first user account may be stored at one or more of computing device the first computing device of the user and or a remote computing device. As described in this disclosure the session may include state information associated with the session such as the first user identifier.

Computing device may authenticate a second user at vehicle head unit . For instance computing device may detect that a second computing device of the second user is in proximity to computing device . Accordingly the second user may receive one or more authentication challenges or in some examples no challenge at one or more of computing device and or the second computing device. The second user may provide one or more credentials or authorizations in response to the challenge in order to authenticate with computing device .

Computing device upon authenticating the second user may associate a second user identifier of the second user with the session that also includes the first user identifier . In this way the first and second user identifiers may both be included in or associated with the session. As such the first and second users may be concurrently authenticated in the session. Computing device may generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session . For instance computing device may execute a navigation application that generates location history information. Computing device may store the generated data to both a first user account and a second user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with a second user identifier . For instance computing device may store the data at a remote computing device that includes user accounts for the first and second users. That is computing device may send one or more requests to the remote computing device that include the generated data and identifiers of the first and second users.

In the example of a first user may authenticate with computing device . For instance computing device may detect that a first computing device of the first user is in proximity to computing device . Accordingly the first user may receive one or more authentication challenges or in some examples no challenge at one or more of computing device and or the first computing device. The user may provide one or more credentials or authorizations in response to the challenge in order to authenticate with computing device .

Computing device upon authenticating the first user may establish a session with a first user identifier associated with the first user . For instance when authenticating with computing device the first user and or the first computing device may provide computing device with the first user identifier. The first user identifier may be associated with a first user account associated with the first user. In some examples data associated with the first user account may be stored at one or more of computing device the first computing device of the user and or a remote computing device. As described in this disclosure the session may include state information associated with the session such as the first user identifier.

A second user may also authenticate at computing device . For instance computing device may detect that a second computing device of the second user is in proximity to computing device . Accordingly the second user may receive one or more authentication challenges or in some examples no challenge at one or more of computing device and or the second computing device. The second user may provide one or more credentials or authorizations in response to the challenge in order to authenticate with computing device .

Computing device upon authenticating the second user may associate a second user identifier of the second user with the session that also includes the first user identifier . In this way the first and second user identifiers may both be included in or associated with the session. As such the first and second users may be concurrently authenticated in the session. Computing device may generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session . For instance computing device may execute a navigation application that generates location history information. Computing device may store the generated data to both a first user account and a second user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with a second user identifier . For instance computing device may store the data at a remote computing device that includes user accounts for the first and second users. That is computing device may send one or more requests to the remote computing device that include the generated data and identifiers of the first and second users.

As described in this disclosure in a shared screen environment such as the infotainment system in a car or a TV or a games console with multiple players it is often possible to have multiple simultaneous users. In such situations and when users are signed in techniques are provided such that a user may not need to make all data history from their account available to the system. Rather than strictly using a signed in vs signed out divide for a single user in which other non signed in users would otherwise lose potential data that could be accumulated during the shared session which reduces the level of personalization or customization we can offer them later techniques of this disclosure may solve the single user sign in problem by writing data generated in a shared session back to the accounts of all users signed into a session. As such techniques of the disclosure may not discard data generated the shared session at the end of the session or only associate the data with one strictly with one account but rather may store the data to multiple user accounts.

When a first user signs into a shared screen system the system may read data may read data from the first user s account and may write data back to the first user s account. In some examples new suggestions and history may be written back to the first user s account during use in the car for example a navigation application builds a better model of common tasks and use cases by the user. In accordance with techniques of the disclosure when a user signs in data may also be read from their account too and any data generated during the session which includes both the first and second users will be written to both accounts. For example the destinations travelled to will be written by the shared screen system to both the first and second users accounts to reflect the fact that they both travelled to those destinations.

In another example implementation when multiple users are all using the same TV and are signed in on that TV the TV program history or video history viewed may be saved to each user s account and in some examples regardless of whether a particular user shared her previous data with other users on the system . In some examples this technique may also be combined with but can be implemented separately from an incognito technique by which users could retrieve their previous data but have no data written by the shared screen system to their respective user accounts.

Rather than implementing a shared screen login by only signing in one user per session which may restrict suggestions and personalization to a single user techniques of this disclosure may permit multiple users to sign in at a shared screen system. The techniques of this disclosure may improve finding data which may often be hard to find exactly because such could have been saved to one of many accounts. For instance techniques of the disclosure may allow a user to simultaneously login to vehicle head unit using multiple user accounts e.g. for different services the user is associated with for that particular user. Techniques of the disclosure may avoid or prevent a situation in a shared screen environment in which a user is not signed in at all in which case data generated by vehicle head unit may be tied to a specific device or cannot be used across multiple devices by sync mechanism. In some examples the additional data written to the users accounts may provide improved personalization suggestions and history and which can be synchronized to other devices the account is signed in on.

A vehicle head unit of a vehicle the vehicle head unit comprising at least one processor and at least one module operable by the at least one processor to responsive to authenticating a first user at a vehicle head unit of a vehicle establish a session with a first user identifier the first user identifier associated with the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the vehicle head unit associate a second user identifier with the session the second user identifier associated with the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and store based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

The vehicle head unit of Example 1 wherein the at least one module is operable by the at least one processor to determine an authentication request for at least one of the first user or the second user determine whether a trust relationship between the first user and the second user satisfies a threshold and if the trust relationship between the first user and the second user satisfies a threshold provide a first authentication challenge to the at least one of the first user or the second user and if the trust relationship between the first use and the second user does not satisfy a threshold provide a second authentication challenge to the at least one of the first user or the second user wherein the second authentication challenge is stronger than the first authentication challenge.

The vehicle head unit of any of Examples 1 2 wherein the at least one module is operable by the at least one processor to determine information that is associated with at least one of the first user or the second user responsive to determining that more than one user is authenticated at the vehicle head unit determine whether a privacy control for the information is satisfied and if the privacy control is satisfied suppress at least a set of the information from output for display and if the privacy control is not satisfied output the information for display.

The vehicle head unit of any of Examples 1 3 wherein the vehicle head unit is included in a shared screen environment wherein the at least one module is operable by the at least one processor to determine one or more indications that indicate at least a role or identity of at least one of the first user or the second user in the shared screen environment compare the one or more indications to a set of one or more criteria to determine the role or identity of the at least one of the first user or the second user in the shared screen environment and responsive to receiving an indication of user input from the at least one of the first user or the second user in the shared screen environment execute based at least in part on the role or identity of the at least one of the first user or the second user one or more operations.

The vehicle head unit of any of Examples 1 4 wherein the data generated by the vehicle head unit comprises at least one of location history playlist history or search history.

The vehicle head unit of any of Examples 1 5 wherein the at least one module that is operable by the at least one processor to store the data is further operable to generate a request that includes the data the first user identifier and the second user identifier and send the request to at least one remote server to store the data for each of the first user account and the second user account based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier.

The vehicle head unit of any of Examples 1 6 wherein the vehicle head unit comprises a presence sensitive display wherein the vehicle head unit is included in a shared screen environment that includes each of the first and second users and wherein the presence sensitive display is physically accessible by each of the first and second users in the shared screen environment.

A method comprising responsive to authenticating a first user at a vehicle head unit of a vehicle establishing by the vehicle head unit a session with a first user identifier the first user identifier associated with the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the vehicle head unit associating by the vehicle head unit a second user identifier with the session the second user identifier associated with the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session generating by the vehicle head unit data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and store by the vehicle head unit and based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

The method of Example 8 further comprising determining an authentication request for at least one of the first user or the second user determining whether a trust relationship between the first user and the second user satisfies a threshold and if the trust relationship between the first user and the second user satisfies a threshold providing a first authentication challenge to the at least one of the first user or the second user and if the trust relationship between the first use and the second user does not satisfy a threshold providing a second authentication challenge to the at least one of the first user or the second user wherein the second authentication challenge is stronger than the first authentication challenge.

The method of any of Examples 8 9 further comprising determining information that is associated with at least one of the first user or the second user responsive to determining that more than one user is authenticated at the vehicle head unit determining whether a privacy control for the information is satisfied and if the privacy control is satisfied suppress at least a set of the information from output for display and if the privacy control is not satisfied output the information for display.

The method of any of Examples 8 10 wherein the vehicle head unit is included in a shared screen environment the method further comprising determining one or more indications that indicate at least a role or identity of at least one of the first user or the second user in the shared screen environment comparing the one or more indications to a set of one or more criteria to determine the role or identity of the at least one of the first user or the second user in the shared screen environment and responsive to receiving an indication of user input from the at least one of the first user or the second user in the shared screen environment executing based at least in part on the role or identity of the at least one of the first user or the second user one or more operations.

The method of any of Examples 8 11 wherein the data generated by the vehicle head unit comprises at least one of location history playlist history or search history.

The method of any of Examples 8 12 further comprising generating a request that includes the data the first user identifier and the second user identifier and sending the request to at least one remote server to store the data for each of the first user account and the second user account based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier.

The method of any of Examples 8 13 wherein the vehicle head unit comprises a presence sensitive display wherein the vehicle head unit is included in a shared screen environment that includes each of the first and second users and wherein the presence sensitive display is physically accessible by each of the first and second users in the shared screen environment.

A non transitory computer readable storage medium included in a vehicle head unit and encoded with instructions that when executed cause at least one processor of a computing device to responsive to authenticating a first user at the vehicle head unit of a vehicle establish a session with a first user identifier the first user identifier associated with the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the vehicle head unit associate a second user identifier with the session the second user identifier associated with the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and store based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

The non transitory computer readable storage medium of Example 15 encoded with instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor of the computing device to determine an authentication request for at least one of the first user or the second user determine whether a trust relationship between the first user and the second user satisfies a threshold and if the trust relationship between the first user and the second user satisfies a threshold provide a first authentication challenge to the at least one of the first user or the second user and if the trust relationship between the first use and the second user does not satisfy a threshold provide a second authentication challenge to the at least one of the first user or the second user wherein the second authentication challenge is stronger than the first authentication challenge.

The non transitory computer readable storage medium of any of Examples 15 16 encoded with instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor of the computing device to determine information that is associated with at least one of the first user or the second user responsive to determining that more than one user is authenticated at the vehicle head unit determine whether a privacy control for the information is satisfied and if the privacy control is satisfied suppress at least a set of the information from output for display and if the privacy control is not satisfied output the information for display.

The non transitory computer readable storage medium of any of Examples 15 17 wherein the data generated by the vehicle head unit comprises at least one of location history playlist history or search history.

The non transitory computer readable storage medium of any of Examples 15 18 wherein the instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor of the computing device to store the data further comprise instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor of the computing device to generate a request that includes the data the first user identifier and the second user identifier and send the request to at least one remote server to store the data for each of the first user account and the second user account based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier.

A method comprising responsive to authenticating a first user at a computing device establishing by the computing device a session with a first user identifier of the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the computing device associating with the session by the computing device a second user identifier of the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session wherein the computing device is included in a shared screen environment that includes each of the first and second users the computing device being physically accessible by each of the first and second users in the shared screen environment generating by the computing device data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and storing by the computing device and based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

An apparatus comprising means for establishing a session with a first user identifier the first user identifier associated with the first user responsive to authenticating a first user at the apparatus means for associating a second user identifier with the session responsive to authenticating a second user at the apparatus the second user identifier associated with the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session means for generating data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and means for storing based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

An apparatus comprising means for establishing a session with a first user identifier of the first user responsive to authenticating a first user at a computing device means for associating with the session a second user identifier of the second user responsive to authenticating a second user at the computing device wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session wherein the apparatus is included in a shared screen environment that includes each of the first and second users the apparatus being physically accessible by each of the first and second users in the shared screen environment means for generating data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and means for storing based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

A computing device comprising at least one processor and at least one module operable by the at least one processor to responsive to authenticating a first user at a computing device establish a session with a first user identifier of the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the computing device associate with the session a second user identifier of the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session wherein the computing device is included in a shared screen environment that includes each of the first and second users the computing device being physically accessible by each of the first and second users in the shared screen environment generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and store based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

The computing device of Example 25 where the at least one module is operable to perform the method of any of Examples 9 14.

A non transitory computer readable storage medium encoded with instructions that when executed cause at least one processor of a computing device to responsive to authenticating a first user at a computing device establish a session with a first user identifier of the first user responsive to authenticating a second user at the computing device associate with the session a second user identifier of the second user wherein the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session wherein the computing device is included in a shared screen environment that includes each of the first and second users the computing device being physically accessible by each of the first and second users in the shared screen environment generate data while the first and second user identifiers are concurrently associated with the session and store based on the first user identifier and the second user identifier the data to both a first user account associated with the first user identifier and a second user account associated with the second user identifier.

The non transitory computer readable storage medium of Example 27 encoded with instructions that when executed cause at least one processor of the computing device to perform the method of any of Examples 9 14.

In one or more examples the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code a computer readable medium and executed by a hardware based processing unit. Computer readable media may include computer readable storage media which corresponds to a tangible medium such as data storage media or communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another e.g. according to a communication protocol. In this manner computer readable media generally may correspond to 1 tangible computer readable storage media which is non transitory or 2 a communication medium such as a signal or carrier wave. Data storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by one or more computers or one or more processors to retrieve instructions code and or data structures for implementation of the techniques described in this disclosure. A computer program product may include a computer readable medium.

By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices flash memory or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if instructions are transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. It should be understood however that computer readable storage media and data storage media do not include connections carrier waves signals or other transient media but are instead directed to non transient tangible storage media. Disk and disc as used includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Instructions may be executed by one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable logic arrays FPGAs or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described. In addition in some aspects the functionality described may be provided within dedicated hardware and or software modules. Also the techniques could be fully implemented in one or more circuits or logic elements.

The techniques of this disclosure may be implemented in a wide variety of devices or apparatuses including a wireless handset an integrated circuit IC or a set of ICs e.g. a chip set . Various components modules or units are described in this disclosure to emphasize functional aspects of devices configured to perform the disclosed techniques but do not necessarily require realization by different hardware units. Rather as described above various units may be combined in a hardware unit or provided by a collection of interoperative hardware units including one or more processors as described above in conjunction with suitable software and or firmware.

It is to be recognized that depending on the embodiment certain acts or events of any of the methods described herein can be performed in a different sequence may be added merged or left out all together e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the method . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events may be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors rather than sequentially.

In some examples a computer readable storage medium includes a non transitory medium. In some examples the term non transitory indicates that the storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache . Although certain examples are described as outputting various information for display techniques of the disclosure may output such information in other forms such as audio holographical or haptic forms to name only a few examples in accordance with techniques of the disclosure.

Various examples have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

