---

title: System and method for delivering departure notifications
abstract: The present invention provides a system and method for determining the necessary departure time to allow for an on-time or desired arrival time at a particular location over a particular route based on the evaluation of historic, present, and predicted road conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09644982&OS=09644982&RS=09644982
owner: PELMOREX CANADA INC.
number: 09644982
owner_city: Oakville, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20150904
---
The present application is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 155 174 filed Jan. 14 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 127 959 which is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 316 250 filed Dec. 9 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 660 780 which is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 199 filed Apr. 19 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 103 443 which is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 283 748 filed Sep. 12 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 702 452 which is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 897 550 filed Jul. 23 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 610 145 which claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application 60 490 199 filed Jul. 25 2003. The disclosures of the foregoing are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to the field of time management for road travelers and vehicles and more particularly to determining departure times to allow for on time arrivals at particular locations based on evaluation of historic present and predicted road conditions.

Recent studies have found that road travelers can spend almost 50 of their commute time stuck in traffic that is not making significant progress on traversing a total distance to their final destination. This unfortunate phenomenon is sometimes referred to as grid lock. Grid lock is often exacerbated if not caused by road construction high traffic volume related to rush hour or otherwise resulting from special events such as concerts and holiday traffic or as is most often the case accidents on a roadway resulting in road or lane closures.

Further studies have demonstrated that daily commuters account for over 75 of all car trips. With increasing urban sprawl most road travelers are commuters with increasingly significant distances to travel. Combined with the fact that almost 90 of daily commuters in the United States for example use private vehicles and therein represent millions of people wanting to move at the same time road systems in the United States and around the world simply do not have the capacity to handle peak loads of traffic. Traffic congestion has become unfortunately a way of life.

Road travelers are as a result often vulnerable when making travel plans in that they do not know what to expect in terms of traffic conditions or commute time on any given day. Poor and inconsistent traffic information combined with the road traveler s general inability to process multiple feeds of incoming real time and historical data as it relates to weather incident reports time of year construction road closures and special events further complicate these problems.

Road travelers are reduced to making inaccurate predictions as to required travel time necessary to traverse from a point of departure to a desired point of arrival. Furthermore road travelers due in part to constantly changing weather and traffic conditions are often unaware that more optimal travel routes might exist both prior to departure and while en route to the desired point of arrival.

Present systems inform the road traveler of actual conditions on a variety of routes but leave determination of an ultimate travel route and necessary departure time to the road traveler which inevitably results in the aforementioned inaccurate predictions.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 594 576 to Fan et al. provides a traffic data compilation computer that determines present traffic conditions and a fastest route to a particular location under the aforementioned traffic conditions. Fan et al. also provides estimated travel time based on current traffic conditions. Fan et al. fails however to provide a necessary departure time to the road traveler so that they may achieve an on time arrival. Fan et al. also fails to consider historical traffic data in that present conditions may allow for a given travel time but fails to predict a change in that travel time due to a known forthcoming event such as rush hour or a concert. Furthermore Fan et al. requires the presence of a collection of data from mobile units vehicles. Absent large scale cooperation of road travelers to equip their vehicles with such data collection equipment the data collection network of Fan et al. might also produce inaccurate or at least incomplete information.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 236 933 to Lang is also representative of the lack of a means to inform road travelers of both evolving road conditions travel routes and the necessary departure time on any one of those routes in order to achieve on time arrival. Lang too is dependent upon widespread installation of monitoring electronic devices in each road traveler s vehicle.

There is the need for a system that aggregates multiple sources of traffic data and interprets that traffic data to express it as a predictive road speed and not a static route devoid of considerations of constantly evolving traffic conditions. By overlaying predictive road speeds with a road traveler s starting locating destination desired arrival time and other optional attributes a road traveler is offered a much needed system that determines an optimal route and recommended departure time. Such a system would then deliver the information via a desired message delivery method. Such a system should also remain sensitive of privacy concerns of road travelers in that the presence of a monitoring device might be considered invasive and otherwise outweighs any benefits it might offer in providing predictive road speed.

The present invention is directed towards a system and method for aggregating and interpreting multiple sources of traffic data. The present invention expresses that data as a predictive road speed for particular sections of road. By determining predictive road speed the present invention determines the optimal travel route and recommended departure time based on among other things destination and arrival time and changing traffic conditions. The present invention also provides for communication of the optimal departure time to the traveler.

In one embodiment the road traveler inputs a starting location a destination a desired arrival time and other optional attributes such as maximum desired speed and vehicle type which may be used by a routing application to calculate a route. The road traveler also inputs information regarding a desired message delivery method such as electronic mail SMS telephone instant message or other message delivery protocol. Using a database of predictive road speeds and a routing engine the system determines the optimal route and recommended departure time for the road traveler s pre selected arrival time. The system then delivers this information to the road traveler through the desired message delivery protocol.

Prior to departure the system continues to re evaluate the suggested route and estimated travel time using constantly updating road speed forecasts and delivers alerts to the road traveler when there is a significant change in the recommended route or forecast. A departure and route alert is also sent when the recommended departure time is reached. Updates may also be sent after the departure time to update the road traveler as to changes in the predicted arrival time or recommended route.

By aggregating multiple sources of data that data can then be interpreted as a predictive road speed. When the predictive speed is overlaid with a road traveler s attributes the optimal route and departure time along with real time updates can be delivered to a road traveler. The availability of such information can significantly reduce commute time especially time spent in traffic thereby resulting in increased on time arrival and an overall reduction of stress on transportation infrastructure.

The benefits of the present system include availability of scheduled and as necessary up to the minute emergency departure notifications. The present system is also beneficial in that it provides data for a desired route as opposed to a variety of routes which forces the user to make inaccurate and often erroneous calculations by combining disparate data.

The present system provides further benefits in that incident reports weather and time of year are used in backward looking algorithms to determine new variables that perturb otherwise stable traffic patterns.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a system sends departure notifications to road travelers as to an optimal departure time for a pre selected travel path to allow for an on time arrival. This notification takes into account road speed forecasts for the pre selected travel path and provides updated departure recommendations based on changing traffic conditions. The system aggregates road and other travel data in various forms and formats and expresses it in an average speed for a section or sections of roadway. By overlaying predictive road speeds for example with a road traveler s starting location destination desired speed and arrival time the system evaluates a suggested route and delivers notification to the road traveler as to recommended departure time and route.

In particular illustrates with greater particularity that part of a larger system for generating a departure alert whereby a user logs in to the system through at least a user registration server . The user registration server manages at least user identification and authentication but can also manage related processes such as subscriptions and billing. User registration server may contain a database for maintaining for example user identification information. At the very least however user registration server has means to access for example a separate database storing this type of information. The user registration server may also manage commonly used information about a particular user including regularly traveled routes a preferred notification method credit card information and so forth.

The user registration server may also be integrated with architecture of third party service providers not shown such as Internet portals cellular telephone services and wireless handheld devices. Such integration allows the present system to deliver departure alerts and notifications through third party proprietary networks or communication systems such as instant messaging networks operated AOL Yahoo and Microsoft in addition to providing a value added resale benefit to be offered by such third party providers. Departure alerts and departure notifications generated by the present system and integrated with architecture of a third party can also be charged to a user s third party service bill e.g. a wireless telephone bill and the operator of the present system shares a portion of the third party service provider s revenue.

Departure alerts and departure notifications generated by the present system can also be charged and or billed to the user directly by the operator of the system instead of through or by a third party. For example a credit card registered and saved to an account by the user can be charged every time a departure alert or a departure notification is generated. Various alternative means of payment and billing exist including pre purchasing a specific number of departure alerts or departure notifications .

The user registration server in some embodiments of the present invention may be optional. In embodiments omitting the user registration server anonymous users can access the system but risk the loss of certain functionalities. Examples of such a loss of functionality are evidenced in there being no extended retention of personal driving or travel preferences or account information as is explained in detail below.

The user registration server accepts information from a user which may include a user name or other means of identifying the user in addition to a password or some other form of security verification information whereby the user registration server may verify if the user is who they contend to be. For example a user might provide a user name and password combination of johndoe and abc123. The user registration server will then access the database or other means of storing this information to verify if a user identifying himself as johndoe is in fact authorized to access the present system via a prior account registration or generation. If so johndoe is authorized the user registration server further verifies whether the present user is in fact johndoe by verifying whether the password immediately provided e.g. abc123 is the same password as that provided during a registration or initial account generation process as evidencing a right or permission to access the present system account.

Access to the user registration server to verify account access permissions or to otherwise provide edit or delete certain information may occur via any number of different interfaces. For example if the user registration server is integrated with third party architecture such as Yahoo interface with the user registration server may occur through a third party web based user interface specifically generated and designed by Yahoo . Similarly a party directly implementing the present system can generate their own user interface for accessing the user registration server . This interface may offer opportunities for co branding strategically placed advertisements or basic account access e.g. a simple request for a user name and password . The user interface for the user registration server is limited only in that it need be capable of accessing the user registration server and directing the request storage or manipulation of information managed by the user registration server .

After authenticating the account with the user registration server the user through a departure alert interface which may include a web site or other form of interface for interacting with an alert manager module creates the departure alert . An exemplary embodiment of the departure alert interface is shown in .

The departure alert is created by providing certain attributes such as information concerning starting point destination desired arrival time routing restrictions preferred notification method and format and departure buffer time whereby the user may compensate for such time consuming tasks as packing a briefcase leaving a parking garage or finding a parking spot and the user s destination. The attributes may also include any other information available to the user that might otherwise aid in calculation of a desired route such as avoidance of construction zones or directing travel in areas offering a variety of hotels rest stops or restaurants. In one embodiment the attributes and information may be entered in response to specific enumerated queries made through the departure alert interface e.g. What time do you wish to arrive or What is your maximum desired speed limit . In an alternative embodiment attributes may be generated in response to a graphic query whereby a map is provided and the user clicks on a desired starting or departure point and checks off certain travel attributes e.g. avoid construction zones .quadrature. avoid highways with carpool lanes or map route near hotels .

Some embodiments of the present invention might offer specific queries that are combined with advertising and branding opportunities. For example instead of a query to the user that merely asks whether or not the user wishes to travel near hotels or restaurants a query could be generated whereby the user is asked if they wish to travel near a particular brand of hotels or restaurants.

The attributes and information provided in the departure alert are then processed by an alert manager module which manages all departure alerts in the system and prioritizes the departure alerts for a routing engine . The alert manager module may be embodied in software e.g. a computer program or hardware e.g. an ASIC and can be integrated into other elements of the present system. For example the alert manager module and the routing engine can both be embodied in a single server. Alternatively and again by way of example the alert manager module and the routing engine and various other elements of the present system can be embodied in independent operating structures such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID or on different points in a Local Area Network LAN . So long as various elements of the present system are able to interact with one another and exchange data as is necessary a singular housing should not be imposed as a limitation on the system.

Referring now to when the departure alert is generated through the departure alert interface a preliminary route is created by the routing engine that shows a quickest route between the departure location and destination based on current conditions as determined by a road speed prediction engine . A graphic representation of the preliminary route turn by turn driving instructions estimated drive time and initial recommended departure time that is the date and time e.g. hour and minute at which a user should depart their starting destination in order to arrive on time at their final destination are presented to the user through the departure alert interface for approval.

The graphic representation driving instructions drive time and departure time are generated by the routing engine as derived from information provided by the road speed prediction engine .

From the time of approval of the preliminary route by the user through the departure alert interface and until the destination is reached the alert manager module regularly queries the routing engine to reassess viability of the preliminary route approved by the user to allow for an on time arrival using updated data and information processed by the road speed prediction engine . For example the road speed prediction engine may process new real time traffic data in conjunction with historically observed road speeds or the occurrence of a special event or incident to generate new short term and long term predictions of average road speed collectively referred to as a prediction of average speed that is a prediction of speed for a particular segment or segments of roadway for a particular date and or time based on available and predicted or extrapolated data .

The routing engine either independently or in response to a prompt by for example the alert manager module or the user directly will make a similar query in a form of a request for an updated prediction of average speed . The road speed prediction engine will determine if there has been a material change which can be a default or defined as an attribute in generating departure alert e.g. 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour in the estimated total travel time for the previously approved preliminary route based on the most recent prediction of average speed .

Referring now to if there is a material change in travel time or routing as reflected by the most recent prediction of average speed as generated by the road speed prediction engine a departure notification may be generated by the alert manager module having received the updated prediction of average speed via the routing engine and sent to the user via a departure notification module .

The routing engine can through use of the most recently updated prediction of average speed provided by the road speed prediction engine determine a new optimal route between the departure and starting point or if necessary a new departure time using that same route. This new route or departure time can be included as a part of the departure notification or generated in response to a subsequent query by the fouling engine .

For example if a user will depart from San Jose Calif. and wishes to travel to San Francisco Calif. on Highway 101 North and arrive at 10.00 AM the user accesses the system through an interface providing access to the user registration server and having been authenticated as a registered user or otherwise approved to access a particular account through the departure alert interface creates a departure alert .

The alert manager module relays the departure alert along with all other alerts in the system via the routing engine . The alert manager module can relay departure alerts individually i.e. on an alert by alert basis by user i.e. all alerts for a particular account or by any other means that may provide for optimal or predetermined operation of the overall system e.g. as created at regularly scheduled intervals or based on particular attributes in the departure alert such as longest routes earliest arrival times and so forth .

The routing engine based on the prediction of average speed provided by the road speed prediction engine determines a necessary departure time from San Jose to allow for a 10 00 AM arrival in San Francisco to be 9 11 AM. This information can be conveyed to the user via the departure alert interface or dependent upon the embodiment through any other variety of communication mediums or protocols e.g. instant messenger electronic mail SMS and so forth .

Prior to departure the routing engine will continue to query the road speed prediction engine in the form of the request for an updated prediction of average speed . For example should a major accident occur the routing engine will in response to the request be given a new and updated prediction of average speed from the road speed prediction engine .

The road speed prediction engine will have been provided with this new data i.e. the existence of the accident and its effect on traffic patterns e.g. closure of a lane of traffic . This information can be provided for example through direct real time traffic data e.g. information provided by a driver at the scene of the accident via cellular phone to a traffic hotline or extrapolation of existing data or historically observed road speed e.g. the closure of one lane of traffic on Highway 101 for a particular 9 mile segment of roadway at 8 00 AM is generally known to reduce traffic flow by 12 miles per hour for that particular 9 mile segment of roadway .

In response to this new data the road speed prediction engine will notify the routing engine of this change whereby the routing engine can calculate a new route to allow for a 10 00 AM arrival in San Francisco based on a 8 15 AM departure time from San Jose e.g. traveling on a different highway or traversing service roads for particular parts of the journey or generate an earlier departure time e.g. a 10 00 AM arrival will now require departure from San Jose at 8 01 AM .

Following the generation of an account or if an account already exists the user will be authenticated with regard to verifying if a user is who they purport to be e.g. by cross referencing or validating a user name with a private password or that the user even has a right to access the system e.g. do they currently possess an account recognized by the system .

Following authentication the user will be able to generate the departure alert or to otherwise interact with the system by accessing the departure alert interface . Through the departure alert interface the user can provider certain alert attributes such as origination and arrival point desired arrival time intricacies concerning a desired route of travel and so forth.

In response to the provided alert attributes the system will generate a preliminary route and recommended departure time for traversing between the origination and arrival points. The user will then have an ability to approve or reject the route based on for example the departure time required for traversing the route and arriving on time at the user s destination.

If the route proves to be unsatisfactory the system will generate a second best or otherwise alternative route based on known travel attributes.

If the route is satisfactory regular queries will be made of the routing engine and in turn the road speed prediction engine in order to continually reassess the approved route and determine if the previously provided departure time in conjunction with the present route will still allow for an on time arrival.

If a material change in the previously approved route is identified during one of these reassessment queries a traffic incident road closure or other event otherwise causing a material change in departure time as it relates to speed and an on time arrival the system will notify the user of the change and generate an alternative route and or alternative departure time . The user having been informed of the change in route and or an alternative departure time will then have an ability to approve of the new travel parameters.

If the route proves to be unsatisfactory the system will generate a second best or otherwise alternative route based on known travel attributes.

If the alternative route or departure time is satisfactory regular queries will again be made of the routing engine and in turn the road speed prediction engine in order to reassess the approved route and determine if the previously provided departure time in conjunction with the present route will still allow for an on time arrival. Material changes in the alternative route will be identified as they are with respect to the original route and addressed as set forth above.

If there is no material change concerning either the original route or an alternative route or departure time then the departure notification will be generated and delivered to the user at a time defined by the user or through a default setting of the system via the appropriate communications medium or protocol.

Reassessment of the route generation of alternative routes and delivery of such reassessments can occur even after the initial departure time has passed. For example if the user is traveling a particular segment of roadway as identified by the system as being the most expedient route of travel to a desired destination and an incident occurs e.g. a major traffic accident whereby the particular route is no longer the most efficient route of travel or arrival time will be significantly impacted the system can reassess the route and if the incident does in fact represent a material change that fact will be identified whereby alternative route will be generated . The user can then approve or disapprove of these alternative routes.

Future assessments can in turn be made of these alternative routes and any further changes in travel time can be identified resulting in a similar process of alternative travel route generation and delivery .

Referring back to illustrates a portion of an exemplary system for generating departure notifications whereby a data aggregation server receives both real time traffic and delayed batch traffic data sets from various sources not shown . The data aggregation server manages the multiple incoming feeds of data sets both real time and delayed and delivers these managed data sets to the road speed prediction engine so that it may develop Predictions of Average Speed .

Data sets can include what is referred to as delayed batch traffic data. This particular type of data is generally data that is not in real time. While this data reflects traffic conditions on average the data has been generated as a historical reference and may not reflect the instantaneous realities and chaos that occur in day to day traffic.

Data sets of delayed batch traffic data can include historically observed road speeds the average speed for a particular segment of road at a particular day and time under particular conditions as observed by sensor loops traffic cameras or other means of reporting such as traffic helicopters highway patrol reports or drivers in traffic with cellular phones. Delayed batch traffic data sets can also include weather information incident reports e.g. occurrence of traffic accidents and resulting road closures information concerning traffic at particular times of year e.g. the main access road to the beach on Labor Day planned road construction planned road closures and special events such as baseball games or concerts that might otherwise affect traffic flow.

Data sets can also include real time traffic data. Real time traffic data is data that is generally in real time or generated relatively close in time after the occurrence of an incident or development of a traffic condition that the data reflects the status of traffic right now or in real time. Real time traffic data provides that information which delayed batch traffic data cannot or does not in that the data reflects the instantaneous changes that can result in a traffic commute and the chaotic intricacies that can result from for example rubber necking at a traffic accident or closing down three lanes on a four line highway to allow for a HAZMAT crew to arrive and clean up a chemical spill from a jackknifed tanker truck.

Real time traffic data sets can also include reports from real time traffic sensors helicopter traffic reports highway patrol reports live news feeds satellite data and cellular phone calls from drivers at scene. While means for generating real time traffic data may in some instances mirror those for generating delayed batch traffic data the difference between the two types of data sets lies in the historical average versus the real time information offered by such data. Real time traffic data sets can also be generated by any number of other available manual entry e.g. introduction of particular traffic data into the system by a human operator at a keyboard or automated entry e.g. introduction of particular traffic data into the system by another computer reviewing traffic sensors to prepare traffic reports means.

While in some instances the road speed prediction engine will be able to prepare a prediction of average speed using only one type of data set real time traffic or delayed batch traffic data the road speed prediction engine will generally utilize both types of data sets in order to generate an accurate and useful prediction of average speed . That is one type of data set is no more valuable as a whole than another and generation of the most accurate prediction of average speed often requires a combination of varying data sets both real time traffic and delayed batch traffic data.

Incoming data sets are collected managed and archived by the data aggregation server . The data aggregation server is largely a database of data sets . Data aggregation server can organize data sets into various broad categories such as real time traffic data and delayed batch traffic data. Data aggregation server can also organize data sets into smaller sub categories such as sensor loop data traffic helicopter data or on scene driver data. The data aggregation server organizes this data in a way that allows for ease of input by the sources of various data sets and ease of access by the road speed prediction engine . Ease of input access can mean processing efficiency i.e. extended searches for data need not be performed as the road speed prediction engine will know exactly what part of the database to access for specific data sets as well as compatibility e.g. shared application programming interfaces APIs or data delivery retrieval protocols .

The road speed prediction engine will access data sets managed by the data aggregation server in response to a pre programmed schedule e.g. access the data aggregation server every 5 minutes in response to a direct request by a user or in response to a request or query by another part of the system e.g. in response to the request by routing engine .

The road speed prediction engine through delayed batch traffic data recognizes historical repeating and random traffic patterns and the observable effects of those patterns as an expression of average speed for a particular segment of roadway that is the prediction of average speed .

The road speed prediction engine can also take data sets comprising real time traffic data and overlay real time traffic information with historical repeating and random traffic patterns and extrapolate real time present effects on traffic patterns and further express average speeds for a particular segment of roadway the prediction of average speed thereby further increasing the accuracy and value of such a prediction.

For example the road speed prediction engine requests data sets comprising historically observed road speed data delayed batch traffic data for Highway 101 North between San Jose and Palo Alto Calif. on Monday mornings between 5 30 AM and 9 00 AM generally peak commute and traffic time . The road speed prediction engine then analyzes this data over a period of for example three weeks and interprets that data as an expression of average speed for that segment of roadway the prediction of average speed for future Mondays between 5 30 AM and 9 00 AM.

Thus the data aggregation server collects data sets concerning road speed for the segment of roadway Highway 101 North between San Jose and Palo Alto Calif. over a three week period. The road speed prediction engine accesses that data which may be 56 mph in week one 54 mph in week two and 62 mph in week three. The road speed prediction engine through the execution of any number of mathematical algorithms formulated to predict short term or long term average speeds will recognize the average speed for that segment of roadway the prediction of average speed to be 57.3 mph on Mondays between 5 30 AM and 9 00 AM.

The road speed prediction engine modifies long term e.g. likely average speed over the next three months and short term predictions e.g. likely average speed for the next hour of average speed for particular segments of roadways. These long and short term predictions are based on the aggregated data sets managed by the data aggregation server . These predictions may change in the long term because of for example road construction and known road closures. These predictions may change in the short term because of for example random events such as accidents.

These modifications too are expressed as a part of the prediction of average speed . By taking into account short term and long term predictions the prediction of average speed for a journey in three weeks an example of a long term prediction will not be skewed by the fact that a major car accident with multiple fatalities has occurred on that same segment of roadway today thereby resulting in multiple lane closures and an increase in travel time for the next several hours a short term prediction .

For example taking the segment of roadway Highway 101 North between San Jose and Palo Alto Calif. we know from delayed batch traffic data the average speed for that segment of roadway is 57.3 mph on Mondays between 5 30 AM and 9 00 AM. Should for example a traffic accident resulting in one lane closure for a distance of two miles occur at 6 00 AM this occurrence a part of the data set will be collected by the data aggregation server and eventually shared with the road speed prediction engine . The road speed prediction engine can overlay this real time accident and lane closure data with the historical road speed and extrapolate the effect of the lane closure and a new prediction of average speed an average increase of 7 minutes based on the time distance and location of the lane closure.

This incident however will not affect the prediction of average speed for a trip scheduled three weeks from now in that the road speed prediction engine recognizes that the change in average speed for the next several hours is a short term prediction. In contrast the trip scheduled for several weeks from now is a long term prediction wherein the traffic accident will have since been resolved and traffic patterns will return to normal.

The road speed prediction engine delivers these predictions of average speed to the routing engine . The routing engine that then determines the optimal departure time and or departure route based on information provided by the user in creating the departure alert .

The routing engine makes a determination of departure time by evaluating the long term and short term Predictions of Average Speed for a particular segment or segments of roadway that comprise the route of travel between a user s point of origin and ultimate destination. After identifying the prediction of average speed for a particular segment or segments of roadway the routing engine through mathematical calculation determines the time necessary to traverse the particular road segments at that average speed. The routing engine in light of the desired arrival time then determines what time it will be necessary to depart the user s point of origin in order to arrive at the destination at the given time while traveling the known number of miles at the average prediction of speed.

For example if the prediction of average speed for a segment of roadway between the point of origin and the user s destination is 60 miles per hour and that road segment if 120 miles in length it will take two hours traveling at the average speed to arrive at the destination from the point of origin. If the user desires to arrive at 3 00 PM it will be necessary to depart at 1 00 PM in order to travel the 120 mile distance at 60 miles per hour in 2 hours .

Additionally the routing engine can take into account certain attributes provided by the user during the generation of their departure alert as these attributes pertain to the user s particular driving style tendencies or other desires and requirements.

For example if the user still wishes to traverse the aforementioned 120 mile segment of roadway but refuses to drive at a speed above 30 miles per hour this will obviously impact travel and arrival time despite the prediction of average speed . Taking into account the aforementioned prediction of average speed and the user attribute limitation i.e. a refusal to drive at more than 30 miles per hour the routing engine will now determine the travel time for that same segment of roadway to be 4 hours. If the user still wishes to arrive at 3 00 PM it will now be necessary to departure at 11 00 AM resulting in a changed departure time to be delivered to the user.

The routing engine may use a similar process to generate and if necessary elect an alternative route of travel to achieve an on time arrival at the desired destination. If it becomes evident that the initial route chosen by the user will take longer to travel because of incidents or user imposed limitations e.g. user attributes then the routing engine will recognize the imposition of an increasingly earlier departure time and seek out an alternative route of travel that for example is better suited to the user s driving attributes or provides a similar route of travel but with less traffic delays.

Data sets are then aggregated by the data aggregation server . Aggregation of data sets can occur on a regularly scheduled basis or in response to certain stimuli such as queries from other elements of the system. Aggregation can also include collection of data from a database of information that is integrated into the system e.g. memory containing traffic records and other information for particular segments of roadway for the past year . Aggregation can be a result of data being pushed to the data aggregation server from outside sources that is the outside sources deliver data sets to the data aggregation server . Aggregation can also be a result of data being pulled from outside sources that is the data aggregation server specifically requests or accesses the data from the outside source.

Once data has been aggregated the data aggregation server will manage the aggregated data sets . Management may include categorizing certain data sets as being real time traffic data or delayed batch traffic data or into even more specific categories such as data as it pertains to particular segments of roadway. Management of traffic data can also comprise storage of specific datum to particular areas of memory to allow for quicker access and faster processing times.

Once data has been managed by the data aggregation server the data is then delivered to the road speed prediction engine . Data can be delivered as part of a specific request by the road speed prediction engine or as a result of a routinely scheduled transfer of data. Once data has been delivered to the road speed prediction engine various algorithms prediction models or other means to generate a prediction of average speed are executed as a part of the analysis of the received data sets . Data is analyzed in order to calculate and generate predictions of average speed for particular segments of roadway. Analysis of data sets can occur through the use of publicly known algorithms and models or through proprietary formulas and models. Any means that helps generate a prediction of average speed may also be used.

Once the prediction of average speed has been generated that prediction is further considered in light of certain attributes provided by the user. That is if the user has imposed certain attributes concerning desired conditions of or limitations to travel over a particular route the prediction of average speed may not accurately allow for calculation of a departure time.

For example if the prediction of average speed for a particular sixty mile segment of roadway is sixty miles per hour the travel time for the segment would be one hour causing an initial calculation of departure time to be one hour prior to the desired arrival time. If for example the user has indicated the necessity to travel no faster than thirty miles per hour due to a vehicle towing a heavy load then travel time regardless of the prediction of average speed would increase to two hours. This increase in actual travel time would affect the calculation of departure time wherein departure must now occur two hours prior to the desired arrival time due to the additional user attribute limitation.

Once all known e.g. user attribute limitations or expected factors e.g. predicted road speed have been considered however a departure time as it relates to desired arrival time can be calculated and ultimately delivered to the user.

Referring back to illustrates a portion of the exemplary system for generating and delivering departure notifications wherein the routing engine uses the latest available prediction of average speed from the road speed prediction engine to determine the optimal departure time and or route between a point of origin and a point of destination according to information and attributes received from the alert manager module . Delivery of departure notifications can comprise the initial reporting of optimal departure time or subsequent changes in departure time due to incidents e.g. accidents occurring on a particular segment of roadway or if conditions warrant the need for a change in travel route are relayed by the routing engine to the alert manager module .

Upon receiving information from the routing engine as it pertains to route or departure time the alert manager module dependent on delivery settings and various limitations e.g. attributes provided by the user will relay the departure and travel information to the departure notification module . The departure notification module generates manages and provides for the delivery of departure notifications to a user via a desired notification delivery protocol .

For example a user can through the departure alert interface generate settings to provide for the delivery of the departure notification through the desired notification delivery protocol . Examples of various protocols include SMS to a cellular phone electronic mail to an electronic mail address or via a proprietary data network to a Personal Digital Assistant PDA such as a Blackberry .

In addition to delivering the departure notification to a user as to the initial departure time the departure notification module can be instructed to deliver a subsequent departure notification if a pre scheduled departure time changes in excess of for example 10 minutes as determined by the routing engine in response to predictions of average speed generated by the road speed prediction engine .

By means of another example the user can also create a setting whereby the user is provided with the most up to date departure time regardless of change if any 24 hours before an initially scheduled departure time. This information is delivered to the user via the departure notification through the desired notification delivery protocol as generated managed and sent by the departure notification module . These examples are simply illustrative and by no means limiting as to the scope of setting possibilities by the user.

For example a user originates in San Jose Calif. and wishes to travel to San Francisco Calif. on Highway 101 North and arrive at 10 00 AM. The system utilizing the various elements and processes set forth above determines the optimal departure time to be 8 15 AM to allow for a 10 00 AM arrival. The alert manager module will relay this information to the departure notification module . Using the desired notification time e.g. 24 hours prior to departure and protocol e.g. electronic mail the departure notification module will create and deliver the departure notification to the user at a pre specified electronic mail address twenty four hours prior to the optimal departure time.

Continuing the example prior to departure a major accident occurs on Highway 101 at 4 00 AM on the day of departure requiring the highway to be closed for six hours for hazardous material cleanup. Subject to data sets reflecting the occurrence of this incident and as collected by the data aggregation server the road speed prediction engine generates a new prediction of average speed reflecting slower speed and therefore longer travel time along this particular segment of roadway.

The routing engine following the request recognizes the new prediction of average speed to reflect a substantial change in average speed and travel time. The routing engine then determines 8 15 AM to no longer be the optimal departure time for the 10 00 AM arrival in San Francisco. The routing engine recognizes that travel on Highway 101 is in fact impossible for the next several hours and that travel on Highway 880 North is now the optimal route with a 7 45 AM departure time due to increased traffic diverted from Highway 101 North.

The routing engine relays this information to the alert manager module and the alert manager module recognizing the user must arrive in San Francisco by 10 00 AM instructs the departure notification module to create and deliver the departure notification to the user via the predetermined notification delivery protocol .

The prediction of average speed is generated by the system and the routing engine then makes a determination of the necessary departure time in order to achieve an on time arrival at the user s destination as identified by the user. This initial departure time and other travel information and data is then relayed to the departure notification module .

The departure notification module will also take into account attributes as provided by the user such as limitations on speed or types of roads to be travel e.g. highway v. city streets . The departure notification module will then determine the necessity of generating and delivering the departure notification . If the departure notification is the initial departure notification to be delivered to the user indicating the necessary departure time this determination will be in the affirmative. If the departure notification is not the initial notification determination will be based on whether or not a change in travel route or travel time requires delivery of a subsequent departure notification . This determination will in part be based on other attributes provided by the user such as how much of a change in travel time will warrant the delivery of the subsequent departure notification .

If an initial or subsequent departure notification is required the protocol to be utilized in delivering the departure notification will be identified also from user identified attributes . After having determined the necessity of departure notification and identification of the requisite delivery protocol the departure notification will be delivered to the user.

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the actual route embarked upon by the user can be delivered to the user in real time whereby driving directions and or instructions are sent to the user in a modified departure notification . The user receives these driving directions and or instructions a few minutes ahead of time as to when and where the directions and or instructions are actually needed e.g. turn right at Fourth and Main . The modified departure notification would be generated by the departure notification module and based in part upon the prediction of average speed whereby the system predicts where a user should be on the actual route based on known departure time and other known conditions affecting the prediction of average speed as reflected in data sets .

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Notwithstanding the providing of detailed descriptions of exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the present invention may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed system structure method process or manner.

