---

title: Common N-well state retention flip-flop
abstract: Embodiments include apparatuses, methods, and systems for state retention electronic devices. In embodiments, an electronic device may include a state retention flip-flop having a plurality of P-type metal oxide semiconductor (PMOS) devices coupled with a common N-well, with one or more of the plurality of PMOS devices powered by an always-on supply and one or more of the plurality of PMOS devices powered by a power-gated supply. Other embodiments may be described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641160&OS=09641160&RS=09641160
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09641160
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150302
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number FA8650 13 3 7338 awarded by the Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to the technical field of electronic circuits and more particularly to state retention flip flops.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure. Unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in the present disclosure and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Conventional retention flip flops use additional keeper transistors and isolated N wells for power gated and always on components. This can result in an area approximately 3.5 times as large and a 30 increase in delay compared to a non retention flip flop.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete actions or operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations may not be performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be performed and or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.

For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrases A and or B and A or B mean A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A B and or C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure are synonymous.

As used herein the term circuitry may refer to be part of or include an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable hardware components that provide the described functionality. As used herein computer implemented method may refer to any method executed by one or more processors a computer system having one or more processors a mobile device such as a smartphone which may include one or more processors a tablet a laptop computer a set top box a gaming console and so forth.

The description and figures may refer to transistors as MPx transistor to indicate that the transistor is a p type transistor or MNx transistor to indicate that the transistor is an n type transistor. The type of transistor is presented as an example and other embodiments may use other types of transistors to carry out similar functionality.

In various embodiments a plurality of transistors of the LCB may be coupled with a common N well and or a plurality of transistors of the state retention flip flop may be coupled with a common N well as further discussed below. The common N wells and may be coupled with the always on supply to receive VAON. In embodiments the use of a common N well may provide a lower layout area compared to state retention flip flops using isolated N wells.

In various embodiments the LCB may include a clock forcing component that drives a clock signal CLK to a logic level of zero when a sleep signal is enabled at a logic level of one with a corresponding sleep bar signal having a logic level of zero. In embodiments the LCB may include one or more device blocks. As shown the LCB may include a Negative AND NAND gate and an inverter . The NAND gate may include a first input terminal to receive the clock signal CLK and a second input terminal to receive an inverted sleep signal sleep bar that has a logic level of zero when a sleep signal is enabled with a logic level of one. In embodiments the NAND gate may be referred to as receiving a sleep state signal input that indicates a sleep state is enabled at the second input terminal .

In embodiments the LCB may be configured as shown with the sleep state signal input sleep bar received at the second input terminal which may also be referred to as a sleep signal input terminal of the LCB . In other embodiments the clock forcing component of the LCB may be configured in a different manner such that the sleep state signal input may be the sleep signal rather than the sleep bar signal received at an input terminal of the LCB .

An output terminal of the NAND gate provides a NAND output signal to an input terminal of the inverter . The inverter may include an output terminal and may invert the NAND output signal to provide a local clock signal clk at the output terminal . The local clock signal clk may be provided one or more devices of the circuit . In embodiments the local clock signal may be set to a first logic state such as zero when the sleep state signal indicates the sleep state is enabled and toggle between the first logic state and a second logic state such as one based at least in part on the CLK input signal when the sleep state signal indicates the sleep state is not enabled.

In embodiments the NAND gate and the inverter may be complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS devices using n type metal oxide semiconductor NMOS and p type metal oxide semiconductor PMOS transistor devices. In embodiments PMOS devices of the NAND gate and the inverter are coupled with a common N well electrically coupled with VAON. The NAND gate may be powered by VAON from the always on supply and the inverter may be powered by VVCC from the power gated supply in various embodiments. The state retention flip flop may receive the local clock signal clk from the LCB in various embodiments. Multiple state retention flip flops may receive the local clock signal clk from the same LCB in embodiments.

In embodiments the state retention flip flop may be a D type flip flop including a master stage and a slave stage . As shown the state retention flip flop may include a first clock inverter a first clocked inverter and an inverter . The inverters may be configured as shown and powered by VAON from the always on supply . In embodiments the first clocked inverter and the inverter are configured as cross coupled slave stage inverters. In embodiments limiting VAON powered devices in the state retention flip flop to the first clock inverter and the cross coupled slave stage inverters may reduce current leakage during the sleep state and reduce dynamic current required from an always on supply such as the always on supply during active mode in comparison to designs that include additional clock inverters powered by an always on supply.

The state retention flip flop may also include a d input inverter an output inverter a second clock inverter a second clocked inverter an inverter a master transfer gate and a slave transfer gate that may be configured as shown and powered by VVCC from the power gated supply in various embodiments. In embodiments the d input inverter may include an input terminal to receive an input signal d and an output terminal to output an inverted d input signal d bar db . In embodiments the output inverter may include an output terminal to provide an output signal q . Master and slave stage standard and inverted states may occur as indicated with m indicating a master standard state m indicating a master inverted state s indicating a slave standard state and s indicating a slave inverted state in various embodiments. In embodiments the inverters and the transfer gates may be implemented as CMOS devices using NMOS and PMOS transistor devices with the PMOS transistor devices coupled with a common N well that may be electrically coupled with VAON. In embodiments a single common N well may be used for the PMOS transistor devices of the state retention flip flop or multiple common N wells may be used.

In embodiments the first clock inverter may include an input terminal the first clocked inverter may include a first clock input terminal and the slave transfer gate may include a first gate terminal each of which may receive the clk signal from the LCB . The first clock inverter may include an output terminal that provides an inverted clock signal clk . The first clocked inverter may include a second clock input terminal the slave transfer gate may include a second gate terminal the second clock inverter may include an input terminal the second clocked inverter may include a first clock input terminal and the master transfer gate may include a first gate terminal each of which receive the clk signal from the first clock inverter . The second clock inverter may include an output terminal that provides a twice inverted clock signal clk . The second clocked inverter may include a second clock input and the master transfer gate may include a second gate input each of which receive the clk signal from the second clock inverter .

In embodiments the use of clk clk and clk to connect the master stage and the slave stage may provide faster clock to output delay and better internal minimum delay characteristics than designs using only clk and clk or their equivalent. In embodiments the use of clk may partially remove delay of the first clock inverter from clock to output delay resulting in faster clock to output delay. Generally internal minimum delay may happen at a falling edge of the clock when the slave stage is closing and the master stage is opening. In embodiments use of clk clk and clk as configured in the state retention flip flop may provide improved internal minimum delay characteristics in comparison to designs using only clk and clk by increasing the delay between closing the slave stage and opening the master stage such that data does not traverse the state retention flip flop too quickly.

In embodiments a common N well may be coupled with PMOS devices of the LCB and electrically coupled to an always on supply such as VAON from the always on supply . Similarly a common N well may be coupled with PMOS devices of the state retention flip flop and electrically coupled to an always on supply such as VAON from the always on supply . Generally PMOS devices have an n type body region with p type source and drain regions. In CMOS device fabrication that uses a p type substrate for NMOS devices an N well is typically diffused into the p type substrate to create the n type body region for the PMOS devices. N type dopants are typically added by diffusion or ion implantation to the p type substrate to change the substrate from p type to n type in the region of the well. In embodiments the common N well may be coupled with a plurality of e.g. all PMOS devices of the LCB and the common N well may be coupled with a plurality of e.g. all PMOS devices of the state retention flip flop . In embodiments the common N well and the common N well may be continuous with each other e.g. common N well and common N well may be considered to be part of the same common N well . The common N well and or the common N well may be shared with other neighboring cells in a circuit layout including those that have devices powered by a power gated supply. In embodiments the use of a common N well may provide a lower layout area compared to state retention flip flops using isolated N wells. For example the layout area of the state retention flip flop may be approximately 2.7 times smaller than the layout area of state retention flip flops that use isolated N wells. Although shorting VAON coupled common N wells with power gated devices may result in some gate junction leakage through power gated transistors this leakage may typically be minimal compared to overall leakage saved by power gating.

Although the state retention flip flop is shown as a D type flip flop the state retention flip flop may be any type of state retention flip flop that includes a common N well coupled with PMOS devices in the state retention flip flop and electrically coupled with VAON in various embodiments. The state retention flip flop may be a reset or scan type flip flop for example.

As shown the state retention flip flop may be a D type retention flip flop having a master stage and a slave stage . In embodiments the master stage may be powered by VVCC from the power gated supply and the slave stage may be powered by VAON from the always on supply . As shown the state retention flip flop may not include a clock inverter in various embodiments.

In embodiments the master stage may include a first AND OR Invert AOI gate and a second AOI gate . In embodiments the first AOI gate and the second AOI gate may be cross coupled. The slave stage may include a third AOI gate and a fourth AOI gate in various embodiments. In embodiments the third AOI gate and the fourth AOI gate may be cross coupled. The AOI gates may be configured as CMOS devices with the first AOI gate including transistors MP MP MP MN MN and MN the second AOI gate including transistors MP MP MP MN MN and MN the third AOI gate including transistors MP MP MP MN MN and MN and the fourth AOI gate including transistors MP MP MP MN MN and MN. In embodiments having only transistors of the slave stage powered by VAON may reduce current leakage during a sleep state and reduce dynamic current required from an always on supply such as the always on supply during an active mode in comparison to designs that include a clock inverter powered by an always on supply.

In embodiments the PMOS devices of the AOI gates may be coupled with a common N well electrically coupled with VAON. The state retention flip flop may include a first inverter that receives a signal d as an input to the state retention flip flop and presents an inverted d input signal d as an output. The state retention flip flop may also include a second inverter that presents a signal q as an output of the state retention flip flop . Master and slave stage standard and inverted states may occur as indicated with m m s and s in various embodiments.

In embodiments a common N well may be coupled with PMOS devices of the LCB and electrically coupled to an always on supply such as VAON from the always on supply . Similarly a common N well may be coupled with PMOS devices of the state retention flip flop and electrically coupled to an always on supply such as VAON from the always on supply . In embodiments the common N well and the common N well may be continuous with each other. The common N well and or the common N well may be shared with other neighboring cells in a circuit layout including those that have devices powered by a power gated supply.

Cells not labeled with VAON may be standard cells that do not include devices powered by an always on supply. As shown some of the standard cells in the layout include cells and . These cells may include devices powered by a power gated supply such as the power gated supply or for example. In embodiments a standard cell may include a conventional non retention flip flop for example. As shown each of the common N wells may be coupled with an always on supply such as the always on supply or . This may be the case even for rows such as row and row that do not include cells having devices powered by an always on supply.

Cells not labeled with VAON may be standard cells that do not include devices powered by an always on supply and include cells and . As shown only those N wells in a row having at least one VAON cell e.g. N wells and may be electrically coupled with an always on supply such as the always on supply or in various embodiments. N wells that are associated with rows such as rows and that do not include at least one VAON cell may not be coupled with an always on supply but may be electrically coupled with a power gated supply such as the power gated supply or for example. Accordingly N wells and may be coupled with a power gated supply. In embodiments limiting the common N wells electrically coupled with VAON to only those rows having VAON cells may reduce the junction gate leakage overhead from the use of common N wells electrically coupled with VAON that are coupled with power gated PMOS devices.

Cells not labeled with VAON may be standard cells that do not include devices powered by an always on supply and include cells and . One or more of the standard cells or may include a conventional non retention flip flop having devices powered only by a power gated supply for example. In embodiments the conventional non retention flip flop may have a circuit configuration as shown with respect to the state retention flip flop in but having all devices powered by a power gated supply rather than some powered by an always on supply. As shown the VAON cells and are partially clustered in that they are all in row rather than being spread among several rows as shown with respect to the VAON cells in . In similar fashion to the layout described with respect to only rows containing VAON cells e.g. row may have a common N well coupled with an always on supply N well . The N well may be coupled with both the VAON cells and as well as the standard cells and in various embodiments. N wells not associated with a row having at least one VAON cell may not be coupled with an always on supply but may be coupled with a power gated supply for example. Accordingly N wells and may be coupled with a power gated supply such as the power gated supply or .

In embodiments VAON cells may be partially clustered by limiting the number of layout rows containing VAON cells to a predefined maximum number of rows or by specifying a section of the layout in which VAON cells can be located. For example a maximum number of VAON rows may have been predefined as one such that VAON cells and were disposed in row of layout . Alternatively a section of layout that may contain VAON cells may have been predefined as row to give layout . In embodiments predefining the maximum number of VAON rows and the section that may contain VAON rows may be combined. For example the maximum number of VAON rows may have been predefined as one and the section that may contain VAON cells may have been predefined as rows and to give layout . In embodiments a required number of VAON rows rather than a maximum number of VAON rows may be specified. For example with respect to a required number of VAON rows may have been specified as three to give the layout . In embodiments more than one row of a layout may include VAON cells with the VAON cells still being partially clustered overall. In embodiments partially clustered VAON cells may be distributed such that for layout rows containing VAON cells a ratio of VAON cells to standard cells summed for layout rows containing VAON cells is at least 1 2. In other embodiments the ratio may be greater such as at least 1 1 for example. The ratio may be calculated by summing all VAON cells to obtain a VAON cell total and summing all standard cells in rows containing VAON cells to obtain a standard cell total in rows with VAON cells with the ratio being VAON cell total standard cell total in rows with VAON cells in various embodiments. In the embodiment shown only one row includes VAON cells with the ratio of the number of VAON cells to standard cells summed for rows containing VAON cells being 1 1. In embodiments further limiting the common N wells electrically coupled with VAON by partially clustering VAON cells may further reduce the junction gate leakage overhead from the use of common N wells electrically coupled with VAON that are coupled with power gated PMOS devices.

Rows that do not have at least one VAON cell may include a common N well electrically coupled with a power gated supply in various embodiments. Accordingly N wells and corresponding to rows and respectively may be coupled to a power gated supply such as the power gated supply or . Cells not labeled with VAON may be standard cells that do not include devices powered by an always on supply. As shown row may include VAON cells and and standard cells and . In embodiments a standard cell may include a conventional non retention flip flop or other circuit that does not use an always on supply.

A common N well extends across the VAON cells and that may be electrically coupled with an always on power supply such as the always on power supply or . In embodiments two or more adjacent VAON cells such as VAON cell and each may include a state retention flip flop such as the state retention flip flop or each having a plurality of PMOS devices coupled with the common N well . In embodiments common N well may include one or more of common N wells or . As shown an N well extends across standard cell and partially into standard cell such that a break is present between the N well and the N well in the standard cell . An N well extends across standard cell and partially into standard cell such that a break is present between the N well and the N well in the standard cell . The N wells and may be electrically coupled with a power gated supply such as the power gated supply or in various embodiments. In embodiments further limiting the extent of common N wells electrically coupled with VAON by clustering VAON cells in adjacent cells and using an N well break may further reduce the junction gate leakage overhead from the use of common N wells electrically coupled with VAON that are coupled with power gated PMOS devices.

In embodiments discussed with respect to when common N wells are discussed as being electrically coupled with a power gated supply the common N wells may be electrically coupled with VVCC and when common N wells are discussed as being electrically coupled with an always on supply the common N wells may be electrically coupled with VAON.

Depending on its applications computing device may include other components that may or may not be physically and electrically coupled to the PCB . These other components include but are not limited to memory controller volatile memory e.g. dynamic random access memory DRAM non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM flash memory storage device e.g. a hard disk drive HDD an I O controller a digital signal processor not shown a crypto processor not shown a graphics processor one or more antenna a display not shown a touch screen display a touch screen controller a battery an audio codec not shown a video codec not shown a global positioning system GPS device a compass an accelerometer not shown a gyroscope not shown a speaker a camera and a mass storage device such as hard disk drive a solid state drive compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD not shown and so forth. In various embodiments the processor may be integrated on the same die with other components to form a System on Chip SoC .

In some embodiments the one or more processor s flash memory and or storage device may include associated firmware not shown storing programming instructions configured to enable computing device in response to execution of the programming instructions by one or more processor s to practice all or selected aspects of the methods described herein. In various embodiments these aspects may additionally or alternatively be implemented using hardware separate from the one or more processor s flash memory or storage device .

In various embodiments one or more components of the computing device may include the circuit and or the layout and or and or the state retention flip flop and or described herein. For example the circuit and or the layout and or and or the state retention flip flop and or may be included in I O controller processor memory controller and or another component of computing device . In some embodiments the circuit and or the layout and or and or the state retention flip flop and or may be included in the processor . In embodiments the processor may include a plurality of circuits and or layouts and or and or state retention flip flops and or .

The communication chips may enable wired and or wireless communications for the transfer of data to and from the computing device . The term wireless and its derivatives may be used to describe circuits devices systems methods techniques communications channels etc. that may communicate data through the use of modulated electromagnetic radiation through a non solid medium. The term does not imply that the associated devices do not contain any wires although in some embodiments they might not. The communication chip may implement any of a number of wireless standards or protocols including but not limited to IEEE 702.20 Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A General Packet Radio Service GPRS Evolution Data Optimized Ev DO Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Evolved High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Bluetooth derivatives thereof as well as any other wireless protocols that are designated as 3G 4G 5G and beyond. The computing device may include a plurality of communication chips . For instance a first communication chip may be dedicated to shorter range wireless communications such as Wi Fi and Bluetooth and a second communication chip may be dedicated to longer range wireless communications such as GPS EDGE GPRS CDMA WiMAX LTE Ev DO and others.

In various implementations the computing device may be a laptop a netbook a notebook an ultrabook a smartphone a computing tablet a personal digital assistant PDA an ultra mobile PC a mobile phone a desktop computer a server a printer a scanner a monitor a set top box an entertainment control unit e.g. a gaming console or automotive entertainment unit a digital camera an appliance a portable music player or a digital video recorder. In further implementations the computing device may be any other electronic device that processes data.

Example 1 may include an electronic device comprising a state retention flip flop including P type metal oxide semiconductor PMOS devices coupled with a common N well wherein one or more of the PMOS devices coupled with the common N well are powered by an always on supply and one or more of the PMOS devices coupled with the common N well are powered by a power gated supply.

Example 2 may include the subject matter of Example 1 wherein all PMOS devices in the state retention flip flop are coupled with the common N well and the common N well is electrically coupled with the always on supply.

Example 3 may include the subject matter of Example 2 wherein the state retention flip flop includes a slave stage having a first AND OR Invert AOI gate and a second AOI gate wherein the first AOI gate and the second AOI gate are powered by the always on supply.

Example 4 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 2 wherein the state retention flip flop is a first state retention flip flop in a first cell wherein the electronic device further includes a second state retention flip flop in a second cell adjacent to the first cell and wherein the second state retention flip flop includes PMOS devices coupled with the common N well.

Example 5 may include the subject matter of Example 4 wherein the first state retention flip flop includes a first inverter and a second inverter and wherein the first inverter and the second inverter are cross coupled and powered by the always on supply.

Example 6 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 4 5 further comprising a local clock buffer having PMOS devices coupled with the common N well the local clock buffer coupled with the first state retention flip flop and the second state retention flip flop.

Example 7 may include the subject matter of Example 6 wherein the local clock buffer includes a device block powered by the always on supply an input terminal to receive a sleep state signal input and an output terminal and wherein the local clock buffer is to output a value of logic zero when the sleep state signal input indicates a sleep state is enabled.

Example 8 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 2 wherein the state retention flip flop is a master slave state retention flip flop wherein a master stage of the master slave state retention flip flop includes devices powered by the power gated supply and wherein a slave stage of the master slave state retention flip flop includes devices powered by the always on supply and one or more devices powered by the power gated supply.

Example 9 may include the subject matter of Example 8 further comprising a local clock buffer the local clock buffer including one or more devices powered by the always on supply and one or more devices powered by the power gated supply wherein the common N well is a first common N well and wherein the one or more devices of the local clock buffer powered by the always on supply include a second common N well coupled with PMOS components of the one or more devices powered by the always on supply.

Example 10 may include the subject matter of Example 9 wherein the second common N well is continuous with the first common N well.

Example 11 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 10 further comprising a processor a memory coupled with the processor and a display coupled with the processor wherein the processor includes the state retention flip flop.

Example 12 may include an electronic circuit comprising a local clock buffer having a clock forcing component with a clock input terminal to receive a clock input signal a sleep signal input terminal to receive a sleep state signal and an output terminal and a state retention flip flop having P type metal oxide semiconductor PMOS devices coupled with a common N well wherein the local clock buffer is to provide a local clock signal to the state retention flip flop wherein the local clock buffer includes PMOS devices coupled with the common N well and wherein the local clock signal is set to a first logic state when the sleep state signal indicates a sleep state is enabled and the local clock signal toggles between the first logic state and a second logic state based at least in part on the clock input signal when the sleep state signal indicates the sleep state is not enabled.

Example 13 may include the subject matter of Example 12 wherein the state retention flip flop includes a first clock inverter that is to receive the local clock signal and is to output an inverted local clock signal and a second clock inverter that is to receive the inverted local clock signal and is to output a twice inverted local clock signal.

Example 14 may include the subject matter of Example 13 wherein the first clock inverter is powered by an always on supply and the second clock inverter is powered by a power gated supply.

Example 15 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 12 14 wherein the state retention flip flop includes a master stage powered by a power gated supply and a slave stage including a first AND OR Invert AOI gate powered by an always on supply.

Example 16 may include the subject matter of Example 15 wherein the master stage includes master stage PMOS devices coupled with the common N well and the slave stage includes slave stage PMOS devices coupled with the common N well and wherein the common N well is coupled with the always on supply.

Example 17 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 15 16 wherein the slave stage includes a second AOI gate powered by the always on supply.

Example 18 may include an integrated circuit comprising layout rows and a always on voltage VAON cells disposed in a first layout row of the layout rows wherein individual VAON cells of the VAON cells include one or more always on devices and wherein the VAON cells of the first layout row are coupled with a common N well for P type metal oxide semiconductor PMOS devices of the VAON cells.

Example 19 may include the subject matter of Example 18 wherein the common N well is a continuous common N well for all cells of the first layout row and wherein the common N well is electrically coupled with an always on supply.

Example 20 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 18 19 wherein the layout rows further include a standard row that does not include a VAON cell and wherein the standard row includes an N well electrically coupled to a power gated supply.

Example 21 may include the subject matter of Example 20 wherein all VAON cells of the integrated circuit including the VAON cells disposed in the first layout row are disposed in no more than a predefined number of the layout rows.

Example 22 may include the subject matter of Example 20 wherein all VAON cells including the VAON cells disposed in the first layout row are disposed in a predefined section of the layout rows.

Example 23 may include the subject matter of Example 18 wherein the VAON cells in the first layout row are clustered in a block of adjoining VAON cells wherein the common N well extends across the block of adjoining VAON cells and wherein the first layout row further includes one or more standard cells that are coupled with an N well that is electrically coupled to a power gated supply.

Example 24 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 18 23 wherein the VAON cells include one or more state retention flip flops and wherein the VAON cells include a local clock buffer electrically coupled to provide a local clock signal to one or more of the one or more state retention flip flops.

Example 25 may include the subject matter of Example 24 wherein the local clock buffer provides a local clock signal of a first logic state when a sleep state signal input to the local clock buffer indicates a sleep state is enabled.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for purposes of description this application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments described herein be limited only by the claims.

Where the disclosure recites a or a first element or the equivalent thereof such disclosure includes one or more such elements neither requiring nor excluding two or more such elements. Further ordinal indicators e.g. first second or third for identified elements are used to distinguish between the elements and do not indicate or imply a required or limited number of such elements nor do they indicate a particular position or order of such elements unless otherwise specifically stated.

