---

title: Apparatus having communication means and a receiving member for a chip card
abstract: The invention relates to an apparatus () which comprises a receiving member () configured to receive a chip card (). The chip card () is configured for contactless communication with a first hardware interface (). The apparatus () further comprises communication means () configured to enable contactless communication with a second hardware interface (), wherein the first hardware interface () and the second hardware interface () are hardware interfaces of different types. The communication means () are configured to enable a communication of the communication means () with the chip card () when the chip card () is received in the receiving member ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633300&OS=09633300&RS=09633300
owner: certgate GmbH
number: 09633300
owner_city: Nürnberg
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20150925
---
This patent application is a continuation of PCT EP2014 056592 filed Apr. 2 2014 which claims priority to German Application No. 10 2013 005 619.5 filed Apr. 4 2013 the entire teachings and disclosure of which are incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Chip cards are used in many different applications. One field of use is authentication for example in the context of electronic completion of banking transactions online banking or also at cash machines ATMs . Another field of use is the use as a key for an electronic lock for example a motor vehicle lock or a lock on a building entrance. Chip cards are also used for storage and proof of credit for example credit for the use of telecommunication service offers. Chip cards often contain a store a simple logic unit or a processor. The processing capacity of the processor may for example be used for processing programme code which may for example be stored in a memory of the chip card and which can serve different purposes.

In order to be able to access the chip card and to make it usable as a result it must be possible to access the chip card that is to say the memory the logic unit or the processor thereof from the outer side. The access may either be contact based or be contactless. The contact based communication may be advantageous in technical security terms in some application situations. Furthermore the complexity for enabling contact based communication may be less. For contact based communication the chip card may be provided on a surface with contacts. However contactless communication may be more comfortable for the user of the chip card in some application situations. Examples of contactless communication technologies which may be controllable by a chip card include Bluetooth RFID radio frequency identification and near field communication NFC . So called dual interface chip cards exist which are equipped both for contact based communication and for contactless communication.

An object of the invention is to provide an apparatus which expands the possibilities for communication with a chip card.

This object is achieved according to the invention by an apparatus which comprises a receiving member configured to receive a chip card. The chip card is configured for contactless communication with a first hardware interface. The Apparatus further comprises communication means configured to enable contactless communication with a second hardware interface. The first hardware interface and the second hardware interface are hardware interfaces of different types. The communication means are configured to enable communication of the communication means with the chip card when the chip card is received in the receiving member.

If a chip card which is configured for contactless communication with a first hardware interface is received by the receiving member of an apparatus according to the invention the communication means of the apparatus can communicate with the chip card. Since the communication means are configured to enable contactless communication with a second hardware interface a communication between the second hardware interface and the chip card can thus be carried out by way of the communication means. Access to the chip card via the second hardware interface and the communication means is possible. It is possible in this instance to communicate with the chip card as if it were itself designed for communication with the second hardware interface. This communication possibility occurs in addition to the possibility to communicate with the chip card in a contactless manner via the first hardware interface. Since the first hardware interface and the second hardware interface are hardware interfaces of different types the chip card is reachable via two different types of hardware interfaces. The possibilities of contactless communication with the chip card are expanded. In different operating situations the hardware interface which is better suited in each case due to the specific properties thereof can be used to communicate with the chip card.

The apparatus according to the invention may in particular be a portable apparatus. It may be an independent apparatus which in any case is not permanently dependent on an external energy supply. The apparatus may be constructed in a spatially compact manner. To this end in the context of an exemplary embodiment it may operate without any display means and or without any user input means for example buttons dials or a touchscreen that is to say it may be constructed without any display and or input means. In an exemplary embodiment the dimensions of the apparatus are less than or equal to the dimensions provided for in accordance with the ISO standard 7810 2003 for a full size chip card. This applies at least with respect to the surface area of the apparatus. However the dimensions of the apparatus in particular the surface area thereof cannot be limited only by a current standard for the dimensions of chip cards but instead the geometry of the apparatus may also correspond completely to a geometry prescribed by such a standard for chip cards or be completely dissociated from such a standard.

Chip cards contain at least one integrated circuit IC that is to say a chip which is arranged on a carrier in particular a plastic carrier or is embedded therein. The circuit may for example comprise a memory. The memory may be a non volatile memory. The memory may be a read only memory ROM a flash memory an EEPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory a ferroelectric random access memory FRAM or a phase change random access memory PCRAM to name but a few examples. Additionally or alternatively the circuit may contain a volatile memory for example a volatile memory with random access random access memory RAM . Other examples of a circuit comprise a simple logic unit or a processor. A processor in this specification is intended to be understood inter alia to refer to control units microprocessors microcontrol units such as microcontrollers digital signal processors DSP application specific integrated circuits ASIC or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs .

Chip cards are known in different forms. One possible form is a SIM card SIM Subscriber Identity Module . The term SIM card in this instance includes different embodiments of SIM cards. These include for example mini SIM cards micro SIM cards and nano SIM cards. However the chip card may for example also be a bank card or telephone card and have the geometry conventional for such chip cards in accordance with ISO 7816 ID 1.

That the chip card is configured for contactless communication may mean that it includes at least one component which is necessary in order to enable contactless communication with the chip card. However all the components necessary for the contactless communication of the chip card do not have to be comprised of the chip card. For example the chip card may comprise a control system that is to say a controller which enables the contactless communication of the chip card whilst an antenna which is additionally necessary for the communication is not a component of the chip card.

That the communication for which the chip card is configured is a contactless communication may mean that there is no direct physical connection present between the chip card and the first hardware interface so that the chip card can communicate with the first hardware interface. The contactless communication may also be referred to as wireless and contact free. For the contactless communication the chip card may for example correspond to one of the standards ISO 10536 ISO 14443 or ISO 15693. The communication may be unidirectional or bidirectional.

The term hardware interface makes it clear that the interface differs from a software interface alone which serves for example to call up a programme component of a computer programme application programming interface API . The first hardware interface may comprise hardware components which are necessary for a contactless communication with the chip card.

Some of the possible examples of a first hardware interface are a Bluetooth interface an NFC interface an RFID interface an interface to a wireless local network wireless local area network WLAN a certified wireless USB interface CWUSB and an infrared interface IR .

The first hardware interface is a hardware interface which is external with respect to the apparatus. It may for example be a component of a device which is different from the apparatus. An example of such a device is a PC personal computer for example a desktop PC a tablet PC or other types of portable PCs notebooks laptops . Other examples are mobile phones for example smartphones personal digital assistants PDA games consoles set top boxes electronic locks for example motor vehicle locks or building locks cash machines ATMs and terminals for example credit card terminals.

The above explanations relating to the first hardware interface also apply with respect to the second hardware interface.

The configuration of the receiving member to receive a chip card may involve the receiving member being adapted to the chip card. In particular it may be adapted to the geometry of the chip card. If the communication means of the Apparatus and the chip card are configured to communicate with each other in a contact based manner when the chip card is received in the receiving member the receiving member may have contacts which correspond to the contacts of the chip card. The receiving member may for example also comprise a lock which must be in a locked state so that the chip card and communication means can communicate with each other for example since there is sufficiently good contact between contacts of the receiving member and contacts of the chip card only in the locked state.

The communication means of the apparatus may include all the components of the apparatus which serve the contactless communication with the second hardware interface.

For example the communication means may include an antenna which is required for the communication with the second hardware interface. Another example of a component which may belong to the communication means is a controller. This may for example have the function when data are received from the second hardware interface for example via an antenna of the communication means in accordance with the protocol used by the second hardware interface of extracting a useful piece of information payload transmitted via the second hardware interface from the received data. On the other hand the controller may have the function of preparing a useful piece of information in accordance with the protocol when it is to be transmitted from the apparatus or from a received chip card to the second hardware interface. In order to cause the actual transmission in the direction of the second hardware interface the controller may for example generate a corresponding signal and for example supply it to an antenna of the communication means so that it transmits it. The communication means may be understood to be a hardware interface of the apparatus which corresponds to the second hardware interface.

That the first hardware interface and the second hardware interface are hardware interfaces of different types may in particular include the fact that the communication means are configured to enable communication only with the second hardware interface but are not configured to enable communication with the first hardware interface. The communication means then correspond only to the second hardware interface but not to the first hardware interface. Accordingly the chip card may be configured to enable only communication with the first hardware interface but not be configured to enable communication with the second hardware interface. If the first hardware interface is for example one of the hardware interfaces mentioned above by way of example Bluetooth NFC RFID WLAN CWUSB IR the second hardware interface due to the different type thereof may be another of the above hardware interfaces.

That the communication means are configured to enable communication of the communication means with the chip card when it is received in the receiving member may mean that a communication of the second hardware interface with the chip card can be carried out directly via the communication means without additional communication components having to be connected in between. Direct access to the chip card by the communication means is possible. This differentiates the invention from systems in which there is connected between the communication means and the chip card for example a processor which for example performs functions other than communication with the chip card and which must be activated so that a communication can take place with the chip card. In contrast according to the invention it is possible to communicate with the chip card as if it were itself designed for communication with the second hardware interface. For the second hardware interface it cannot be envisaged that the chip card itself is not configured for communication with the second hardware interface.

That the communication means are configured to enable communication of the communication means with the chip card when it is received in the receiving member may involve all the components for the communication with the chip card being present on the part of the communication means at least when a conductive connection exists between the chip card or the receiving member and the communication means as may be necessary for the contact based communication with the chip card. For example the communication means may comprise a controller configured to communicate with the chip card. This controller may at the same time be configured to enable the contactless communication with the second hardware interface.

Alternatively to this end another controller may be included in the communication means. The communication means may be configured to control both a protocol for the communication with the second hardware interface and a protocol for the communication with the chip card. The communication may involve a unidirectional or bidirectional data exchange.

That the communication of the communication means with the chip card is possible when it is received in the receiving member includes that optionally above and beyond merely inserting or introducing the chip card into the receiving member in another manner other steps have to be carried out before the communication between the chip card and communication means is possible. Such a step may for example be locking the chip card in the receiving member for example so that sufficient contact is produced between chip card and receiving member.

Examples of such security purposes are inter alia encryption purposes. If the chip card is useable for security purposes it can also be referred to as a secure element.

For example in a memory of the chip card a unique identifier may be stored which identifies the owner of the chip card and by means of which he authenticates himself with respect to another entity. A field of use for this is for example access control to motor vehicles or buildings access being granted only after successful authentication or also logging on to a computer. The chip card may also be usable in the context of a dual factor authentication in which for example in addition to the chip card a personal identification number PIN is required as required for example in most cases for the use of cash machines ATMs . There are many other examples. However a unique identifier may also be used for example for the electronic signature of a document. The identifier may for example be a private key of the owner of the chip card which together with a public key forms an asymmetrical key pair. The key pair may for example be an RSA key pair RSA Rivest Shamir Adleman . However there may also be for example a secret key stored on the chip card which is useable for the symmetrical encryption or decryption for example of documents or a communication. A processor which may also be comprised of the chip card may be able to be used for security purposes in particular for identification purposes and or for authentication purposes and or for encryption purposes. For example the processor may perform encrypting operations or during operation in the context of a challenge response method it may be involved in the generation of the response to the challenge set.

According to one exemplary embodiment in which the chip card can be used for security purposes the Apparatus forms a token when the chip card is received in the receiving member.

If the chip card is received in the receiving member since the chip card is useable for security purposes the apparatus according to the invention can also be considered to be useable for security purposes. Portable apparatuses useable for security purposes in particular those which are useable for identification purposes and or authentication purposes are referred to as tokens or security tokens. Tokens exist in different forms which are all included here. Some examples of such forms are for example the construction of the token as a key ring and configurations which resemble conventional memory sticks for example USB sticks USB Universal Serial Bus .

According to one exemplary embodiment the chip card is configured for contact based communication and the apparatus is configured to enable contact based communication with the chip card when the chip card is received in the receiving member.

The contact based communication of the communication means with the chip card may be advantageous since contact based communication may be able to be carried out in a more simple and secure manner in comparison with contactless communication.

Since in the context of this exemplary embodiment the chip card is configured both for contactless communication with a first hardware interface and for contact based communication the chip card in this exemplary embodiment is a so called dual interface chip card. An example of such a dual interface chip card is a chip card which is equipped both for contact based communication in accordance with ISO 7816 and for contactless communication in accordance with ISO 14443. The configuration of the chip card for contact based communication may involve the chip card having contacts which can be contacted from the outer side for example since they are arranged on a surface of the chip card. The configuration of the apparatus to enable contact based communication with the chip card may involve contacts for contacting the chip card being present on the part of the apparatus for example in the receiving member of the apparatus and a conductive connection being provided between the contacts of the Apparatus and the communication means.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contactless communication for which the chip card is configured is a contactless communication having a smaller range than the range of the contactless communication which the communication means are configured to enable.

Due to the different ranges the communication means enable a larger communication range compared with the contactless communication for which the chip card itself is configured. By the use of the exemplary embodiment of the apparatus according to the invention the communication with the chip card may thus be possible over a greater distance.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contactless communication for which the chip card is configured is a passive communication and the contactless communication which the communication means are configured to enable is an active communication.

Chip cards which are configured for contactless communication are often configured only for passive contactless communication since this may be possible with less complexity than the configuration for active communication. One reason for this is that for passive communication no energy supply means for example a capacitor or a battery have to be provided by the chip card. However the range and transmission rate in passive communication are often limited with respect to active communication. If the communication means of the apparatus according to the invention are configured to enable active contactless communication it is thus possible to enable communication with the chip card over a greater distance and at a higher transmission rate by the use of the apparatus.

Passive communication may in this instance in particular be understood to be a communication in which a communication partner requires no separate energy supply in order to perform the communication. It can obtain the energy required for the communication for example from an electrical field of another communication partner which is connected to an energy supply. Examples of communication techniques which permit a passive communication partner include NFC and RFID. Accordingly active communication may be understood to be a communication in which both communication partners have to be connected to an energy supply in order to be able to perform the communication.

That the chip card is configured for passive contactless communication means that the chip card is configured in passive communication to act as the passive communication partner.

Due to the energy supply means it is possible for communication means configured to enable active contactless communication with the second hardware interface to be able to be provided and for the apparatus to nonetheless remain independent of an external energy supply so that it may constitute an independent apparatus.

The energy supply means may comprise for example a capacitor a battery an accumulator or a solar cell. The energy supply means may be associated with the communication means in particular may be connected thereto. There may be provision for the apparatus to be configured for charging the energy supply means. For example the apparatus may comprise a coil which is associated with the energy supply means and by means of which energy can be supplied to the energy supply means for charging by means of induction.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contactless communication for which the chip card is configured is a contactless communication at a lower transmission rate than the transmission rate of the contactless communication which the communication means are configured to enable.

Due to the different transmission rates the communication means with respect to contactless communication for which the chip card itself is configured enable a higher transmission rate. By the use of the exemplary embodiment of the apparatus according to the invention thus more rapid communication with the chip card may become possible.

According to one exemplary embodiment the communication means are configured to enable a Bluetooth communication with the second hardware interface.

The second hardware interface in the context of this exemplary embodiment may be referred to as a Bluetooth interface. The communication means may be referred to as Bluetooth communication means. Bluetooth interfaces are currently provided on many Apparatuses of different types. For example a large number of smartphones laptops and tablet PCs have a Bluetooth interface. By the apparatus according to the embodiment access to the chip card using such apparatuses becomes possible. A terminal which is specifically designed for access to the chip card can then be dispensed with. In comparison with other contactlessly operating communication technologies for example NFC Bluetooth offers a higher transmission rate and a larger range. For example the range may be up to 100 m and the transmission rate several MBit s.

The term Bluetooth communication is intended in this instance to include communication in accordance with the Bluetooth Low Energy standard BLE . In the context of the invention it may be advantageous to configure the communication means as communication means for communication in accordance with the BLE standard since this may result in a comparatively low energy requirement of the communication means. This may enable smaller sizing of the energy consumption capacity of the energy storage means which may be required for the operation of Bluetooth communication means by the apparatus. Energy storage means having a lower energy storage capacity may be distinguished with respect to energy storage means having a larger energy storage capacity by smaller dimensions. Therefore they may be able to be integrated in a apparatus according to the invention in a more simple manner. When BLE is used no pairing is further required so that access by several systems to the chip card becomes possible.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contactless communication for which the chip card is configured is a near field communication NFC .

The first hardware interface in the context of this exemplary embodiment may be referred to as an NFC interface. The near field communication is a technique for which many chip cards are already configured. It can bring advantages of comfort in use in different application fields. At the same time by means of NFC a passive communication can be carried out. The chip card according to the invention may thus be configured for passive contactless near field communication that is to say act as the passive communication partner in near field communication so that for the near field communication no energy has to be provided by the apparatus according to the invention. The range with the near field communication is often only in the order of magnitude of a few centimetres and the maximum transmission rate is below 0.5 Mbit s.

It may be considered to be particularly advantageous for the communication means to be configured to enable a Bluetooth communication with the second hardware interface and at the same time for the contactless communication for which the chip card is configured to be a near field communication. It is then possible to access the chip card by means of near field communication or on the other hand by means of the apparatus access can be carried out by means of Bluetooth. A communication with the chip card having a larger range and a higher transmission rate than with near field communication becomes possible. Near field communication and Bluetooth communication can complement each other particularly well.

For example the apparatus may then be used in order to initialise or personalise the chip card by means of Bluetooth communication. Software can be installed configured or deleted on the chip card by means of Bluetooth communication. The blocking or unblocking of the chip card charging with credit or interrogation of the status of the chip card can also be carried out by means of Bluetooth. All these actions can therefore be carried out wirelessly Over The Air OTA . Other everyday uses of the chip card for example in payment applications access control applications and electronic travel ticket or entry ticket applications can in contrast be carried out by means of near field communication. However the Bluetooth communication can also be used in the context of the above applications. If the apparatus forms a token when the chip card is received in the receiving member the token functionality may be useable not only via NFC but also via Bluetooth for example an electronic signature can be carried out via a Bluetooth communication by means of the token an authentication can be carried out a transaction can be approved a payment can be activated or data can be encrypted or decrypted. Also the functionalities and applications which are set out above in connection with the use via Bluetooth may also be useable via NFC. Generally the listing of the functionalities and applications at this point is by no means conclusive but there are a number of other examples which are not mentioned here only for reasons of clarity. According to one exemplary embodiment the apparatus comprises additional communication means configured to enable the contactless communication of the chip card with the first hardware interface.

The chip card may be configured for contactless communication with the first hardware interface without comprising all the means necessary for this communication. The additional communication means may complement the configuration of the chip card for the contactless communication with the first hardware interface and thus enable the communication with the first hardware interface. The additional communication means then do not have to be provided externally with respect to the chip card and Apparatus according to the invention.

The additional communication means may for example comprise an antenna which is required for the communication of the chip card with the first hardware interface but which is not comprised of the chip card itself. A controller which is required for the communication of the chip card with the first hardware interface may on the other hand be provided by the chip card and may provide the configuration of the chip card for the contactless communication with the first hardware interface.

According to one exemplary embodiment the additional communication means are at least partially deactivatable.

By at least partial deactivating the additional communication means the communication of the first hardware interface with terms of security since access to the chip card via the first hardware interface is then impossible.

The at least partial ability to deactivate the additional communication means may mean in this instance that in the deactivated state the additional communication means are not useable so that communication of the chip card with the first hardware interface is not possible. The ability to be deactivated may for example be provided by a switch which is comprised of the apparatus according to the invention. This may be configured to provide or to interrupt a connection between the chip card and the additional communication means so that in the interrupted state the additional communication means are not useable. However an electronic component of the additional communication means may also be switched off for example by means of separation from an energy supply. The additional communication means may at least partially be mechanically deactivatable. The ability to be mechanically deactivated may have the advantage that the deactivation and optionally the reactivation can be carried out in a simple manner in particular without specific knowledge of the operator. For example in the case of a switch provided for deactivation reactivation a mechanically actuatable actuation element may be provided by means of which the switch can be moved from one switching state into the other.

For example the chip card is permanently received in the apparatus. For example the chip card is permanently received in the receiving member and thus permanently received in the apparatus . For example the apparatus and the chip card permanently received in the apparatus form a token in particular a security token as described above.

The chip card is for example to be understood to be received in the receiving member if it is non detachable connected with the receiving member. A non detachable connection is only separable by destruction. Examples for non detachable connections are adhesive bonds solder connections welded connections bond connections and rivet connections.

If the communication means of the apparatus and the chip card are configured as described above to communicate contact based with each other when the chip card is received in the receiving member the receiving member may comprise contacts corresponding to the contacts of the chip card. For example the contacts of the chip card are soldered up or bonded e.g. by use of conductive adhesive with the corresponding contacts of the receiving member so that the chip card is received permanently in the receiving member. This is for example advantageous to ensure an as good as possible electrical contact between the chip card and the apparatus and to prevent a disconnection of the chip card and the apparatus.

The installation space of the apparatus configured to receive the chip card is for example to be understood to be the receiving member. For example in this installation space there are no further elements of the apparatus arranged so that the chip card is receivable therein. For example the apparatus may comprise a circuit board with contacts for contacting the chip card. For example the installation space in which the chip card is located when the chip card is connected to the corresponding contacts of the circuit board may be understood to be a receiving member. For example in this installation space no further elements are arranged on the circuit board.

According to one exemplary embodiment the apparatus is part of a vehicle key. For example the apparatus is formed as a vehicle key and or arranged in a vehicle key as a component of the vehicle key.

For example the apparatus together with the chip card is configured to authenticate the owner of the apparatus the user of the apparatus and or the possessor of the apparatus to a vehicle locking system. Furthermore the apparatus together with the chip card is for example configured to authenticate the owner user and or possessor of the apparatus to other systems such as a building locking system a parking management system a back office system and or a management system.

For example the chip card and or the additional communication means and or the communication means are configured for contactless communication with a vehicle locking system of a vehicle and or other systems. For example the chip card and or the additional communication means support as described above a NFC communication. For example the communication means support as described above a Bluetooth communication. This is for example advantageous to support different communication protocols and to enable a compatibility as high as possible with a plurality of other existing systems.

In a memory of the chip card may for example be stored a unique identifier which identifies the owner user and or possessor of the chip card and or the apparatus and with which he may authenticate himself to a vehicle locking system.

For example the unique identifier may be directly communicated e.g. sent to the vehicle locking system by the chip card and or the additional communication means and or the communication means. For example the vehicle is only opened and or a immobilizer of the vehicle is only deactivated if the vehicle locking system recognizes the owner of the apparatus to be authorised to open the vehicle by the unique identifier.

In contrast to mechanic vehicle keys this is for example advantageous if the vehicle key of which the apparatus is a part does not only serve for authenticating to one vehicle but a plurality of vehicles e.g. a plurality of vehicles of a car sharing provider . For example the unique identifier may be programmed in all vehicle locking systems of the vehicles so that the user group of the vehicles may be expanded or reduced by adapting the programming.

For example the owner user and or possessor of the chip card and or the apparatus may authenticate himself with the unique identifier to one or more other systems. Alternatively in a memory of the chip card at least one further unique identifier may be stored which identifies the owner of the chip card and with which he may authenticate himself to the other systems. For example the unique identifier may be directly communicated e.g. sent to the other systems by the chip card and or the additional communication means and or the communication means.

This is for example advantagoues to allow a use of the apparatus as efficient as possible in different application areas. For example the apparatus may not only be used by the owner user and or possessor of the apparatus for authentication to a vehicle locking system but also for payment e.g. of parking fees .

The unique identifier is for example assigned to one person or a group of persons. An example for a unique identifier is a user certificate and or one or more keys. As described above the idenfier may for example be a private key of the owner of the chip card which forms together with a public key an asymmetric key pair. It may for example also be a secret key stored on the chip card which is useable for the symmetric encryption e.g. of documents or communication. Also a processor comprised of the chip card may by useable for security purposes in particular for identification purposes and or authentification purposes and or encryption purposes. For example the processor may perform encrpytion operations or may take part in generating a response on a challenge in the context of challenge response methods.

The apparatus has a receiving member for a micro SIM card referred to below simply as a SIM card. In the receiving member there are arranged contacts which contact the contacts of a SIM card when the SIM card is received in the receiving member . The apparatus further comprises Bluetooth communication means . These are configured for communication in accordance with the Bluetooth Low Energy standard. The Bluetooth communication means comprise a Bluetooth antenna and a microcontroller . In order to supply energy to the microcontroller a battery is provided. The battery is a disposable battery. Alternatively however a rechargeable battery can also be used. In order to recharge the battery the apparatus may then comprise a coil not shown by means of which the battery can be charged in an inductive manner. The Bluetooth communication means are connected to the contacts of the receiving member by connection . The apparatus further comprises NFC communication means . These include an NFC antenna and a switch . The switch can be mechanically actuated by means of a sliding member not shown . In the closed state of the switch the NFC antenna is connected to the contacts of the receiving member by connection . By means of the Bluetooth communication means communication of a SIM card which is received in the receiving member with a Bluetooth interface is enabled. In accordance with the Bluetooth technology this communication is carried out in a contactless manner. By means of the NFC communication means a similarly contactless communication of a SIM card which is received in the receiving member with an NFC interface is enabled when the switch is closed. Display means or user input means are not comprised of the apparatus .

The components of the apparatus including the microcontroller as an integrated circuit are integrated in a plastic carrier .

The chip card comprises an input output microcontroller I O C a processor central processing unit CPU a ROM a RAM and an EEPROM . Instead of the EEPROM or in addition thereto also a flash memory may for example be provided. The microcontroller is connected to the processor so that a data exchange between the microcontroller and the processor is possible. The processor is further connected to the ROM the RAM and the EEPROM so that it can access these components. The SIM card is a so called dual interface chip card which is configured both for contact based communication according to ISO 7816 and for contactless communication according to ISO 14443. To this end the microcontroller was configured accordingly and a connection of the microcontroller to the contacts of the SIM card was provided.

A unique identifier of the SIM card predetermined by the manufacturer is stored in the ROM . In order to execute a software programme on the processor the programme code is first loaded in the RAM . Operands are also deposited in the RAM whilst the programme is executed. Software programmes and data which the user stores on the SIM card are stored in the EEPROM . The connection of the ROM the RAM and the EEPROM to the microcontroller is provided via the processor .

The SIM card is useable for security purposes. It can therefore also be referred to as a secure element. For example it may be usable for identification purposes and or authentication purposes and or for encryption purposes. For example the unique identifier of the SIM card which identifier is predetermined by the manufacturer and stored in the ROM can be used for access control by being transmitted from the SIM card to a corresponding access terminal. In a similar manner it can for example also be used to gain access to a computer. It can also be used for example together with a PIN for dual factor authentication for example in order to cause a withdrawal at a cash machine ATM . According to another example a private key of an RSA key pair may be stored in the EEPROM and be used for the electronic signature of documents. However a secret key for the symmetrical encryption or decryption can also be stored on the SIM card . In the context of another example the processor when it executes a computer programme stored in the EEPROM can perform an encryption or decryption operation or in the context of a challenge response method be involved in the generation of the response.

The contacts of the SIM card are in abutment with the contacts of the receiving member . The receiving member may comprise a lock not shown in which in a locked state ensures good contact between the contacts and the contacts of the SIM card . As explained above the SIM card is useable for security purposes so that the apparatus forms a token when the SIM card is received in the receiving member . In contrast to the switch is closed in so that in a connection of the NFC antenna to the contacts of the receiving member and thus to the SIM card is provided.

The microcontroller of the Bluetooth communication means is configured both for the Bluetooth communication and for the contact based communication with a SIM card. It controls protocols for Bluetooth communication and for contact based communication with SIM cards. Furthermore it may in each case generate and also process corresponding electrical output signals. The electrical connection between the SIM card and the Bluetooth communication means is provided by the contacts and the connection . The apparatus is thus configured to enable a contact based communication with the SIM card when the SIM card is received in the receiving member . By the contact based connection of the SIM card to the Bluetooth communication means secure communication between the SIM card and the Bluetooth communication means is brought about with little implementation complexity.

The NFC communication means form additional communication means with respect to the Bluetooth communication means . If the switch is closed and the SIM card is received in the receiving member the SIM card is connected to the NFC antenna . The NFC antenna then enables the contactless communication of the SIM card with the NFC interface . A decoupling of the NFC antenna from the receiving member and consequently from the SIM card can be performed in a simple manner. To this end the switch must simply be moved into the open state in a mechanical manner. The NFC antenna is then no longer be useable that is to say it is deactivated. An undesirable NFC communication between the terminal or the NFC interface thereof and the SIM card is then impossible. The security is increased.

If the SIM card is received in the receiving member the apparatus can expand the possibilities for communication with the SIM card . It is possible not only to perform an NFC communication which is supported by the SIM card in a native manner but also a Bluetooth communication with the SIM card .

The Bluetooth communication of the Bluetooth interface with the SIM card can be performed directly via the Bluetooth communication means without other communication components having to be connected in between. The reason for this is that from the Bluetooth communication means all the components for the contact based communication with the SIM card and the Bluetooth communication with the Bluetooth interface are present. In particular the controller controls protocols for Bluetooth communication and for contact based communication with SIM cards. Direct access to the SIM card by the Bluetooth communication means is possible. It is therefore possible to communicate with the SIM card as if it were itself designed for communication with the Bluetooth interface . For the Bluetooth interface it cannot be envisaged that the SIM card is not itself configured for the communication with the Bluetooth interface .

NFC communication and Bluetooth communication complement each other particularly well. For instance the range and transmission rate of the Bluetooth communication enabled by the Bluetooth communication means are greater than with the NFC communication for which the SIM card is configured in addition to contact based communication. In contrast the NFC communication has the advantage that it allows passive communication that is to say communication in which a communication partner for performing the communication does not require an own energy supply. In this instance the SIM card is configured for passive NFC communication. It thus acts as the passive communication partner in the NFC communication. For the NFC communication with the NFC interface no energy supply is required by the SIM card or the apparatus . The energy required for the NFC communication is obtained from an electrical field generated by the NFC interface during the communication with the NFC interface of the terminal . For the Bluetooth communication which is an active communication so that an energy supply is required by all of the communication partners involved the battery supplies the microcontroller of the Bluetooth communication means . However the necessary energy storage capacity of the battery can be reduced with respect to a case in which in addition to a Bluetooth communication another active communication has to be enabled. A reduced spatial requirement may result. For the same reason it is also advantageous for the Bluetooth communication means to be configured for communication in accordance with the BLE standard.

Terminals which are configured in the same manner as the terminal for the NFC communication with chip cards are used in large numbers and for a great variety of purposes. A small selection of examples include payment applications access control applications and electronic travel ticket or entry ticket applications. In the context of such applications the SIM card can interact with the terminal by means of NFC communication. If the SIM card is received in the receiving member of the apparatus it is possible to access it additionally via Bluetooth. The advantages of Bluetooth with respect to NFC with regard to the range and the transmission rate become usable. In addition Bluetooth interfaces such as the interface are available in very many apparatuses such as for example PCs or smartphones.

For applications in which a larger range and a higher transmission rate are advantageous the Bluetooth communication with the SIM card can be used. It is thus possible for example via the PC and the Bluetooth interface to perform an initialisation a personalisation a blocking or an unblocking of the SIM card . In this instance display means for example a screen and input means of the PC for example a mouse and a keyboard may be used for comfortable interaction with the SIM card . For the installation of the software on the SIM card and for the configuration or deletion of this software the SIM card may be accessed by means of apparatus by the PC via Bluetooth. Since the PC is connected to the Internet remote access to the SIM card can be performed via the internet the PC and the apparatus . By the PC for example software or media files from the internet can also be loaded and stored on the SIM card in particular in the EEPROM . The functionalities and applications listed here in connection with the use via Bluetooth may also be usable via NFC. The same applies to the reverse case.

Generally the listing of the functionalities and applications at this point is in no way definitive but there are a large number of other examples which are not set out here only for reasons of clarity.

The apparatus is portable and can function independently. For the operation thereof the Apparatus is not dependent on an external energy supply since the NFC communication can be performed in a passive manner and an energy supply of the apparatus is comprised with the battery for the Bluetooth communication means . The Apparatus comprises all the components which are necessary to enable the Bluetooth communication and the NFC communication with the SIM card . Due to this embodiment the communication possibilities of the SIM card can be expanded by the apparatus wherein the apparatus together with the SIM card may be handled just as well as the SIM card alone.

