---

title: Smart watch extended system
abstract: A method and apparatus to provide an extended band is described. The method includes pairing a watch and a host device. The method further includes monitoring a user's status with a plurality of sensors on the host device and/or the watch, and using the extended band to do one or more of: provide alerts to the user, based on the sensor data, control the extended band from one of the devices, and share data with third parties using the extended band.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594354&OS=09594354&RS=09594354
owner: DP Technologies, Inc.
number: 09594354
owner_city: Scotts Valley
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150224
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 255 923 filed on Apr. 17 2014 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 814 178 filed on Apr. 19 2013 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a smart watch and more particularly to a smart watch extended system.

As accelerometers and other sensors are becoming more accurate lower power more cost effective and smaller. There are numerous systems available which enable a user to monitor his or her activity or sleep.

For example there are pedometers or other activity monitors that track a user s activities to improve health. There are also some sleep monitors which use accelerometers.

The present invention is a smart watch extended system also referred to as an extended band system which is a combination of a smart watch including sensors and a computing device. The smart watch is designed to be worn by a user throughout the day and the night in one embodiment. In one embodiment the extended band system may include additional body worn devices or additional watches paired with the same computing device. In one embodiment at least one sensor is worn or touched placed next to on a soft surface or carried by the user throughout the day. This enables the extended band to monitor the user s motions and other characteristics during the day and night. The tracking of sleep using actigraphy enables the detection of sleep phases and circadian rhythms. In one embodiment the data obtained by the extended band may be used to track the user s activity level create correlations between behaviors and or track various other health related features such as ergonomics eating patterns etc. The extended band provides useful feedback on the user s own status and in one embodiment the status of others.

The system in the smart watch uses smart power management and communication methods to enable the use of a smart watch 24 hours a day without recharging the device for an extended period such as a year or more. In one embodiment a watch battery lasts over one year for normal usage.

The extended band provides a MACS Monitor Alert Control and Share system. The system uses sensors on the band and or the host device to Monitor the user s state. The system can provide Alerts on one or more component on the system smart sleep cycle alarms inactivity notifications etc. The system also provides Control enabling the user to control the band from the host device and vice versa. The system also enables a user to Share data about themselves with others through social media or directly with other users of the extended band system.

The smart watch includes one or more sensors processors and input output elements. In one embodiment the output of the smart watch uses mechanical movement with dials and hands similar to a traditional watch to display data to the user. In one embodiment the output of the smart watch includes light emitting diodes LEDs in addition to dials and hands. This type of horological system provides a high fashion and high function system.

The computing device may be a mobile device such as a smart phone or tablet computer or desktop computer. The computing device may include one or more sensors processors and input output elements. For simplicity the computing device will be referred to as a host device in this Specification. Thus the term host device should be interpreted as any computing device that can establish a sporadic or continuous connection with the smart watch.

The smart watch and host device in one embodiment maintain their connection most of the time that the devices are in range thereby forming the extended band consisting of the smart watch es and related host device s . In another embodiment the smart watch periodically sends its data to the host device. In another embodiment the smart watch sends the data to the host device upon request by the user.

The extended band is able to use the combination of sensors to get more accurate data and to leverage the rich user interface of the host device speakers large screen vibrations etc. . This enables the extended band and the system as a whole to optionally use the host device for real time feedback to the user. Furthermore sensors in the host device may add additional data to the system. Additionally by controlling the band from the host device the user interface provides a lot more opportunities and the user has more fine grained control. On the other side by controlling the host device from the band the system provides always in hand control for the host device.

For example in one embodiment the smart watch can notify the host device that it is time to wake up the user then an application on the host device can play sounds to wake up the user. These sounds can gently fade up and be user selectable. In one embodiment the smart watch may wake the user directly using a vibration.

If the host device is connected to a home automation system it can turn on lights raise shades start the coffee maker etc. Because the host device is designed to be regularly charged it can be much less power conscious than a band designed to be worn for a longer time before recharging.

In this system in one embodiment the smart watch and the host device become essentially extensions of each other and all features of the host device can be used for real time monitoring alert control and sharing. Similar the smart watch may be used to provide monitoring alerts control and sharing. For example if the host device is out of range e.g. left behind or if the host device is a smartphone when a call is received the smart watch can control the host device or provide an alert to the user. In one embodiment the smart watch may be used selectively for indicating a received call e.g. when the phone is set to silent or the user is in a loud environment. In one embodiment elements of the band s user interface and state can be controlled from the host device. For example the smart watch can be put into sleep state from the host device. Thus the host device becomes an extension of the smart watch and the smart watch an extension of the host device. In one embodiment elements of the host device s user interface and state can be controlled by the smart watch in turn. In one embodiment the smart watch may be used to turn on the host s ringer turn on and off sensors or otherwise control the host device.

The following detailed description of embodiments of the invention make reference to the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements showing by way of illustration specific embodiments of practicing the invention. Description of these embodiments is in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. One skilled in the art understands that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical mechanical electrical functional and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The extended band may be coupled via a low bandwidth direct connection such as Bluetooth 4.0 or similar connection mechanism. In one embodiment the connection between the smart watch and host device may be continuous periodic or sporadic. In one embodiment the preferred connection is continuous enabling the use of the host device as the input and output for the smart watch and enabling fine grained control of the watch. The host device may be coupled to a network such as the Internet. In one embodiment the smart watch may be coupled to the network such as the Internet. In one embodiment the connection between a smart watch and host device may be through a network . This configuration still forms an extended band .

The extended band may be coupled through the network to a server . The server may be a remote server or a local device that acts as a server. The server may be used to collect data from multiple users devices. In one embodiment the network may also enable use of third party data or provision of data to third parties . In one embodiment the network connection may also enable the extended band to connect to an emergency destination .

In one embodiment data from the extended band may be shared with various third party recipients . The third party recipients in one embodiment may include social networks such as FACEBOOK TWITTER GOOGLE PINTREST or other social networks blogs websites set up for the purpose such as a competition site set up by NIKE or another extended band supporter or other third party recipients .

In one embodiment an extended band may also share data with another user s extended band through network without going through server or third parties . In another embodiment data may be shared through server and or third party recipients . For example one user s post on TWITTER or check in on FOURSQUARE may be received by another user s extended band and shared with the user through the user interface provided by host device . As another example the extended bands of both people may provide their data to a server associated with supporting the extended bands. The server may share the extended band data with other users who are associated with the owner of the extended band. This association may be voluntary e.g. friends or connections set up by the user circumstantial e.g. users competing in the same competition or being matched for an event locational e.g. users participating in the same race or being in proximity or otherwise established. In one embodiment the bands may share data directly without using the server as the intermediary if the users are associated.

The smart watch includes a plurality of sensors . The sensors in one embodiment may involve sensors used to detect the user s physiological condition. Such sensors may include an accelerometer gyroscope thermometer potentially two thermometers one for ambient and one for body temperature barometer etc. In one embodiment additional sensors focused on medical applications may also be included. Such sensors may include blood glucose sensors blood pressure sensors blood oxygenation sensors and other sensors. In one embodiment the sensors may be coupled to the smart watch or host device wirelessly or using a wired connection.

The sensor data obtained by sensors is passed to band sensor data processing . In one embodiment the sensor data processing is implemented using a processor. In one embodiment the sensors may be coupled to a separate lower powered processor and store the sensor data temporarily in a buffer not shown . In one embodiment the higher powered processor which implements sensor data processing may be turned on as needed. In one embodiment the sensor data processing may also be a low power processor and any processing requiring higher power may use the host device . The host sensor data processing may provide additional processing power.

Power control system controls the processors and sensors of the smart watch device. In one embodiment the smart watch is powered by a watch battery which is not rechargeable. The power control system manages the sensor testing frequency processing and communication with host device to reduce power consumption and enable an extended battery life. In one embodiment under normal use conditions the watch battery is designed to last up to two years without replacement. In another embodiment the watch battery may be rechargeable using a plug in or proximity charging technique. In one embodiment by shifting out put from LEDs light emitting diodes to dials and hands controlled via micromotors controlled by micromotor controller the power consumption for the display is reduced.

One disadvantage of a micromotor controlled hand arrangement is that jarring can cause the hand to be misaligned compared to the actual time. In one embodiment the smart watch includes a movement tracker which tracks the movements of the hands that are used to indicate the time. The tracker tracks each motion of the hands to enable comparison of the movement against the actual change in time. This enables the system to accurately adjust the hands of a horological clock if they get misaligned due to accidental motion jarring or another reason

Hand reset logic is used to reset the hands to the proper location if they are jarred. As noted the movement tracker tracks the movement of the hands. Clock logic obtains current accurate clock data in one embodiment from host device . If the host device is a smart phone the smart phone has a real time clock source that is accurate in GPS or network clock data. This information is obtained by clock logic and used to assist in correctly resetting the system.

Expert system and host expert system use the processed sensor data to make recommendations and analyze the results. The expert system is designed to utilize predictive analysis to predict the next actions motions stages of the user s activity and to make recommendations.

Communication logic in smart watch and host communication logic enable the close tying of the smart watch and host device . In one embodiment communication logic uses BLUETOOTH personal area network PAN . Other network communication methods may be used. BLE BLUETOOTH LOW ENERGY also known as BLUETOOTH SMART may be the connection method. Other formats of network connection may be used. In one embodiment data is sent in packets so that the connection time for the transmission is minimized.

In one embodiment the smart watch may be physically coupled to the host device continuously or periodically. The extended band sharing system on the smart watch and host work together to share processing and display. In one embodiment the smart watch communication is limited by the user interface elements available on the smart watch such as a vibration motor and a limited number of subdials and or LEDs whereas in general the host device is a more fully featured with a keyboard and screen.

User interface elements on smart watch enable the user to interact with the watch. In one embodiment the band user interface elements may include a button integrated into the watch crown one or more subdials with associated hands a vibration motor and optionally one or more LEDs or a speaker or beeper. The user interface elements on the smart watch in general are more limited than the user interface elements in the host device . In one embodiment the system is designed to provide basic communication to the user via the smart watch and provide more details upon request via the host device .

Power control system is used to minimize the power consumption by the smart watch . The power control system reduces the power consumption of the smart watch by shutting off sensors that are not being utilized reducing sensor sample rates based on the current activity of the user reducing band power consumption when the band is not being worn and minimizing the use of the high power processing. In one embodiment the power control system is a smart system activating the subset of sensors and processing power required on an as needed basis.

In one embodiment data store on the band may store sensor data from sensors prior to processing. Post processing data may also be stored in data store . In one embodiment data store may be a non volatile memory such as a flash memory. Data store on host device may be a non volatile memory such as flash memory or storage such as a disk drive. In one embodiment the detailed long term data is stored on a server not shown and sufficient data for display is stored on the host device . In one embodiment the smart watch only stores the data not yet sent to the host device and data useful for the display and calculations.

Pairing system is used to initialize a connection between the smart watch and the host device . In one embodiment the pairing may use an automatic pairing triggered by shaking the devices together or performing another activation mechanism. In one embodiment the mechanism described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 907 901 is used.

In one embodiment multiple smart watches and or other body worn devices may be paired to a single host . This provides use flexibility and fashion. For example an attractive horological wrist watch that is worn during a workday may be suboptimal for exercise or sleep. Therefore different bands may have different functionality. Additionally different bands may have different appearances. Additionally in one embodiment a single body worn device may be paired with multiple hosts . For example a smart watch may be paired with the user s mobile phone as well as the user s tablet computer desktop laptop etc. Additionally a smart watch may be paired with a special purpose system.

In one embodiment the system includes a help mode system which enables a connection to 911 or other emergency numbers as appropriate. In one embodiment help mode system provides an interface that enables the user to securely quickly and unobtrusively invoke an emergency response from the smart watch to trigger communication via host device . In one embodiment multiple help modes may be available depending on the emergency. For example a fire may be a different help mode interface than a mugger or a medical emergency. In addition to being able to call 911 or the appropriate first responders in on embodiment help mode system may also be set to contact a family member doctor or other appropriate party.

Finder enables the user to find the host device via the smart watch and vice versa. In one embodiment the proximity system can alert the user when he or she leaves behind the smart watch or the host device . This can be useful especially when the user puts down the host device or takes off the smart watch regularly. In this way the extended band formed by the band and host device can provide an extended MACS monitor alert control share system. The extended band provides functionality which neither the band nor the host device could provide alone. Additionally by creating a truly linked band and host rather than occasionally sharing data the extended band can take advantage of the combined feature set of both devices.

As noted the host device can provide a different set of sensors data processing expert system etc. The host device has additional user interface features including a full screen and keyboard. In one embodiment the user can review his or her sleep pattern activity pattern and other health data on the host device via user interface elements . Host device also has a server connection in one embodiment which enables the host device to provide data to the server. The server in one embodiment stores user data from multiple users and provides calculations for predictive algorithms third party data and updates. Though only a single server is mentioned it should be clear that the system may connect to multiple servers. For example a first server may provide the application for the host device and updates to the application while a second server may be a data store for user data and a third server may provide third party data and other information.

At block the smart watch and the host devices are paired via the low power wireless protocol. In one embodiment that protocol may be the BLE protocol. In one embodiment pairing is done as described in below.

At block a slow and low power data connection is maintained between the smart watch and the host device to create the extended band. The extended band is a combination of the sensors processors input and output mechanisms of the smart watch and the host device. The combination can provide better quality data faster processing and a richer output than either device alone.

At block the process determines whether sensor data processing is done by the host device the smart watch or a combination. In one embodiment if both the host device and the smart watch can do processing the processing will be distributed as is most efficient. In one embodiment the decision may be made based on processor capability available battery power bandwidth cost and sensor data volume. In one embodiment the host device has a more powerful processor but the smart watch has more sensors. In one embodiment pre processed sensor data is shared rather than raw data.

The process determines whether the processing is being done on the host device at block . If the processing is not done on the host device at block in one embodiment sensor data is received by the smart watch from the host device. If the processing is done on the host device at block sensor data is sent to the host device by the smart watch. In one embodiment each device may do some preprocessing on its sensor data before sharing it. Preprocessing data removes unnecessary data. For example for a motion sensor the accelerometer output is a change in acceleration at all times. The pre processed data may remove portions that contain no movement. In one embodiment the pre processed data for an accelerometer may provide an acceleration vector showing direction strength and length of movement rather than raw accelerometer data. In one embodiment each device may process its sensor data separately.

At block the data is processed to determine user recommendations and outputs. In one embodiment the outputs may be alarms reminders status indicators status updates etc. In one embodiment feedback is output to the user at block . The feedback may additionally be shared on social networks or pushed to other users of the application in one embodiment. The process ends at block . In one embodiment the connection is maintained when the devices are both powered and available and thus this process ends only when one of the two devices is disconnected or turned off.

At block the watch and host device are linked. In one embodiment the pairing method described below with respect to is used. In one embodiment the host device has the ability to ping when in pairing mode and connect to any available smart watch. Other methods of pairing or associating the devices may also be used.

At block the process determines whether the sync is periodic. A periodic sync means that the data is shared between the watch and the host device periodically. The period may be defined in various ways. In one embodiment the period may be defined by time e.g. every five minutes by data accumulation e.g. after X amount of data is collected by processor usage e.g. when the watch processor is otherwise idle by need e.g. when the watch is in need of additional sensor data or processing capability or a combination of these or other period definitions. In one embodiment the host device may also initiate the periodic synchronization. If the sync is periodic at block the system periodically exchanges data between the host device and the smart watch. The process then continues to block .

If the sync is not periodic the process continues to block . At block data is exchanged between the smart watch and host device on request. The request may be a manual request from the user. The request may be an automatically generated request from the host device or from the watch. For example the host device may automatically request data if the user activates the application and no recent data has been received. For example the watch may request data when the user places the watch into sleep state and there is no alarm setting data available on the watch or the alarm setting data has not been validated recently. In one embodiment the on request data exchange may be a full data exchange or a limited data exchange as needed to service the user s needs. The process then continues to block .

At block the data is processed to determine user recommendations and potential output. In one embodiment the data processing includes predictive modeling of the user s expected activity sleep pattern and comparison of actual sensor data against the predictive modeling. This enables the system to adjust the sensor and data processing frequency to match the expected actions and to identify the actual actions more quickly and with less processing. The recommendations for the user may range from engaging in an activity e.g. inactivity alarm to coaching e.g. providing guidance during an exercise session to suggestions.

At block feedback is provided to the user if appropriate via the extended band. As noted above feedback via the smart watch may include data displayed on a dial or via LEDs vibration or alarm tones. Data displayed via the host device may be more detailed. In one embodiment the feedback may be provided via alternative means such as an email SMS or social media post.

The process ends at block . In one embodiment the connection is maintained when the devices are both powered and available and thus this process ends only when one of the two devices is disconnected or turned off.

At block the user launches the application and chooses the option to add a new smart watch. In one embodiment this may be done from a configuration menu or the like in the application. In one embodiment this may be done using a hardware button or similar mechanism.

At block the application prompts the user to make sure the smart watch is active and nearby prior to pressing start. The start button may be a soft button or a hard button. In another embodiment the start button may be a gesture command or other initiation mechanism.

At block the application searches for a smart watch that has a received signal strength indicator RSSI greater than a threshold.

At block the process determines whether a single watch is detected. If so at block the application prompts the user to complete the pairing. In one embodiment this is done by performing a gesture command to complete the pairing. This ensures that the watch whose signature was detected is the band being paired. The gesture command in one embodiment is holding the host device and the watch together and performing a motion. In another embodiment button press or other interaction with the watch may be used instead to complete the pairing. In another embodiment the watch ID which may be the brand name or another identification is displayed and the user can accept the pairing. In one embodiment the user may need to accept the pairing on both the watch and the host device to ensure that an unrelated host device can t be paired with a watch.

At block the input is used to pair the host device and band. In one embodiment the process described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 907 901 assigned to the assignee of the present invention may be used to perform the pairing. The user is informed of the pairing. The process then ends at block .

If at block the system did not detect a single watch the process continued to block . At block the process determines whether no watches were detected. If no watches were detected at block the user is informed that no watches were successfully detected and the user is prompted to ensure that the watch to be paired is active and in proximity to the host device. The process then continues to block enabling the user to reinitiate the pairing. If the user reinitiates the pairing the process returns to block to search for watches in proximity with an RSSI above a threshold. If the pairing is not reinitiated the process ends.

If at block multiple watches and or bands were found in one embodiment the process continues to block . At block the user is warned that multiple devices were found in proximity and prompted to move with the one watch to pair and the host device or alternatively to remove the other devices from the vicinity or turn them off. The process then continues to block enabling the user to reinitiate the pairing. In another embodiment the user may simultaneously pair multiple watches or other devices with the host device. In that case the process continues to block when the one or more watches are detected and the user accepts the pairing with each device.

In this way the system enables establishing the pairing between the host device and the watch. Once a host device and a watch are paired forming the extended band whenever the two devices are in proximity they can automatically establish a connection. Additionally as described above the extended band utilizes the combined sensor set and processing power of the watch and the host device.

At block the types of connections available between the watch and host devices are identified. The types of connections include all connection formats that are supported by both the host device and the watch.

At block the lowest power connection that can support the data exchange between the watch and host device is selected. Because the watch is designed to monitor motion sleep and ergonomics it is designed to be worn continuously. Therefore long battery life is strongly preferred and minimizing power consumption is an important goal.

At block a connection pattern that is the lowest consumption is selected. Depending on the type of connection the lowest consumption pattern may be a continuous connection sending small amounts of data Bluetooth 4.0 or periodic connections to send high bandwidth bursts of data. In one embodiment based on the connection method selected the lowest power connection pattern is selected.

At block the process determines whether the selected connection pattern is continuous. As noted above for some connection formats a continuous low power connection is preferred. If so at block the system is set up to use a continuous connection at block . In one embodiment the continuous connection exchanges data in a low bandwidth format regularly. If not at block the system sets up timing for periodic connections or sets up a pattern of establishing connections as needed. The process then ends.

At block the process determines whether the connection was dropped. A dropped connection occurs if an attempt to share data between the watch and the host device fails. In one embodiment at least a plurality of attempts must fail to declare a connection dropped. In one embodiment if three attempts fail the connection is deemed dropped.

If the connection has not dropped at block the combination of watch and host device is used to acquire sensor data process it and communicate with the user. Additionally the extended band may share data with third parties including social networks as well as present data to the user in one embodiment including from third parties including social networks. The process continues back to block to continue utilizing the extended band and monitoring for a dropped connection.

If the connection was dropped at block the user is alerted via the watch and or host device in one embodiment. The alert may be useful to indicate that the watch or host device was left behind accidentally has been turned off or has developed a problem. In one embodiment the alert on the watch may be a vibration or light while the host device may use an alarm tone and a display on its screen. Other methods of alerting the user may be used. In one embodiment a text or MMS message may be generated to alert the user.

At block the watch wireless connection is put to sleep. As noted above the watch power use should be minimized. Wireless connectivity is one of the significant battery drains and especially unsuccessful attempts to connect wirelessly uses a lot of signal strength and thus battery. Therefore temporarily placing the watch s wireless connection in a sleep state is a way of preserving battery power.

At block the other processes of the watch are continued at a reduced level. In one embodiment if the watch cannot process some of the sensor data it stores and queues the data to be sent to the host device. From the user s perspective in one embodiment the watch functionality does not significantly change unless the watch cannot support the required processing. In that case the system attempts to continue functioning with the reduced processing power prioritizing user relevant actions. For example if the user is sleeping and awaiting an alarm the watch would continue to monitor sleep and ensure that the alarm was not missed. Other processes may be queued for later processing. The watch also queues other communications that would normally take place with the host device e.g. user status updates and processed sensor data.

At block the process determines whether a qualifying event has taken place. A qualifying event may include the user pressing a button on the band ending a sleep or timed steps recording the watch detecting that it is time to wake up the user smart sleep alarm etc. In one embodiment a qualifying event is any event that should lead to communication between the host device and the watch. If a qualifying event is detected at block the watch wireless connection is woken and the watch attempts to connect to the host device again. At block the process determines whether the connection was reestablished. If not the process continues to block and puts the wireless connection back to sleep. Of course the watch would also perform the actions triggered by the qualifying event. If the connection is successfully reestablished the watch sends the data previously queued to the host device and the process returns to block to continue interacting with the host device and monitor the status of the connection.

If no qualifying event took place at block at block the process determines if a timer has triggered. If the time set by the timer has not passed the process returns to block to continue reduced service and determine whether a qualifying event has been detected. If the timer has been triggered at block the watch wireless is woken and a connection is attempted.

In this way the almost continuous connection between the watch and the host device is maintained while optimizing for reduced power consumption by the watch and user relevant processing when processing is limited to the watch. Although this figure shows the dropped connection from the perspective of the watch one of skill in the art would understand that the host device can use a similar process. When the sensor data and other information from the watch is not available the host device continues to process what data it has available and attempts to keep the user experience consistent. In one embodiment if the system is being used for sleep monitoring the host device may change to a user modified sleep pattern and still wake the user using a smart alarm. This is designed to ensure that if the watch runs out of power or crashes or otherwise becomes inactive the user still has a positive experience with the system.

If the watch is below the motion threshold at block the process determines whether the watch has been inactive for a period of time. If so at block the sensors in the watch are powered off or placed on a low testing frequency. The process then ends at block . In one embodiment the watch sets a timer and periodically checks if there is movement above a threshold. In another embodiment at least one sensor is maintained at a low rate to continue monitoring. The sensor may be the temperature sensor accelerometer or other low power sensor that is capable of detecting either motion or temperature or another identifier that would indicate that the watch is being worn. In another embodiment the user manually activates the sensors in the watch after they are powered off. In one embodiment a dial may set the watch to a setting indicating that the sensors are off.

If the watch has not been inactive for a period the process returns to block to continue monitoring whether the watch motion level is above the threshold.

If the watch motion is above the threshold as determined at block the process continues to block . At block the process determines whether host device finder was initiated on the watch. In one embodiment when the user is wearing the watch and cannot find his or her host device which is a mobile device he or she may activate this feature. If it was activated at block a message is sent to trigger an action on the host device. In one embodiment the message is sent through the application that may be able to override a silent setting. This enables the user to locate the host device if the host device has any power. In one embodiment the output is played repeatedly until the user indicates that the host device has been found. In one embodiment if the watch and host device are not in close enough proximity to use the personal area network such as BLUETOOTH another network protocol may be used for this message. The process then returns to block .

If the host device finder is not activated the process determines whether the watch device finder on the host device is activated at block . If so at block a message to use the watch output is sent from the host device to the watch. The output may be a sound a vibration a flashing light or a combination of those or any other forms of output that the watch can utilize. In one embodiment the output is played repeatedly until the user indicates that the watch is found. In one embodiment if the watch and host device are not in close enough proximity to use the personal area network such as BLUETOOTH another network protocol may be used for this message. In one embodiment if the host device has the capability to determine the location of the watch the system may also provide an indication of the location or approximate direction of the band. The process then returns to block .

If the watch finder was not initiated at block the process determines whether a help mode is initiated. The help mode may be initiated by pressing and holding a button or another indication on the watch. In one embodiment this indication is designed to not be accidentally triggered and easy enough to enable someone who is hurt to perform the indication.

In one embodiment the user may utilize the watch to initiate a help mode. The help mode connects the user to an emergency number such as 911 or a pre programmed third party such as a doctor or monitoring service using a combination of the watch and the host device. This would enable a user who is unable to reach or dial a telephone to call for help.

If the help mode is initiated at block the system uses the extended band to connect to the emergency line. In one embodiment the combination of the host device and the watch enables a user to talk to the emergency number responder such as a dispatcher without having to dial and hold a telephone. In one embodiment there may be multiple types of help modes that may be triggered. For example there may be a medical emergency trigger a non medical emergency trigger and a dangerous situation trigger. In one embodiment the user may define one or more triggers and one or more destinations. In one embodiment the default help mode initiation is to contact 911 or the equivalent local emergency service.

In one embodiment help mode may be initiated automatically e.g. without a user triggering it in some circumstances. For example in one embodiment if the watch sensors detect that the user is having a medical emergency help mode may be initiated. For example if the watch can monitor heart rate automatically a heart rate in the danger zone e.g. heart arrhythmia or heart racing without a corresponding movement trigger may automatically trigger the help mode. In one embodiment the user is provided with the opportunity to override the help mode trigger if it is automatically initiated. In one embodiment the ability to terminate the help mode is also provided when it is manually triggered enabling the user to override it. The process then returns to block to continue monitoring.

If no help mode was initiated the process at block determines whether the system has received data from other users. In one embodiment the user may set up one or more friends with whom the user wishes to share data and whose data the user wishes to see. If one of those friends has sent data at block the data is received and shared with the user. In one embodiment the system includes a page that displays the user s own status and the status of friends. The data received may include social media posts such as posts on FACEBOOK or TWITTER or another social media platform. The data received may include data directly shared between instances of the application e.g. each user may set up to share certain milestones achieved such as how much and how well the user slept how much aerobic activity the user did how many steps the user took etc. In one embodiment the received data is a combination of these types of data. In one embodiment the user may be alerted to certain social media data based on user set preferences. The process then returns to block to continue monitoring.

If no data is received at block the system provides normal user status to the user throughout the day. The user interface on the watch is updated throughout the day as is the user interface available via an application on the host device so that it is up to date with the user s latest activity and or sleep data. It is designed so that the user can glance at the watch and see how he or she is doing today. In one embodiment by incorporating the shared data received from others the user can also see one the host device how he or she is doing relative to personal activity sleep goals and relative to other people friends in their social network.

In one embodiment the watch also provides some of this feedback throughout the day. In one embodiment the watch has subdial which provides progress information using a dial and hand which allows for feedback status updates throughout the day. In one embodiment the user s current status may be reflected by an LED or other illustrating showing a relative status e.g. green when the user has met his or her goals shading into yellow as they slip and red when the user is far from his or her set goals . Alternatively the user s relative standing among his or her friends may be indicated via display on the watch. For example there may be a dial indicating user status with the dial pointing to a gold silver bronze or other level depending on the user s relative placement. In one embodiment LEDs with various colors may be used. This enables an at a glance comparison between friends. In one embodiment a competition logic described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 740 884 assigned to the assignee of this case may be used to enable competition between unevenly matched users.

In one embodiment in addition to providing data to the user the process also enables the user to selectively share the user s status with friends. As noted above the application may share certain achievements and status. In one embodiment the user sets up what information is shared with whom and once the preferences are set the extended band automatically shares data. In one embodiment the user may also manually share data or block data from being shared. The process then returns to block to continue monitoring.

In this way the extended band utilizing the watch and the paired host device provide services to the user. Additional services may be provided with sensor data sensor data processing data sharing and notifications utilizing the watch the host device or both devices. By providing an extended band that is linked consistently with the host device the user has the advantages of both form factors and the disadvantages of neither.

At block the process determines whether there is user output to be provided. The system provides alerts alarms and other types of notifications to the user. In one embodiment this does not include updates to the user s information presented on the watch or host device as discussed with respect to .

If there is user output to be provided the system at block identifies the optimal combination of outputs based on the type of connection between the host and band power levels of the host and band and host and band capabilities. In one embodiment the system preferentially outputs user alerts through the watch and more detailed data through the host device since the host device provides a richer experience. In one embodiment the relative location of the host device and watch may also be taken into account e.g. if the user is wearing the watch but the host device is not nearby the watch may be a better output mechanism. In one embodiment the distance between the host and watch may be determined based on connection latency. In one embodiment if one of the devices has low power the system preferentially uses the other device in the extended band to provide feedback to the user. illustrates some exemplary methods of providing output to the user. In one embodiment the watch includes one or more subdials and a vibration engine to provide information to the user. In one embodiment the hands on the subdials are moved via micro motors. Any of the exemplary interface methods discussed in may be altered of course without deviating from the present invention. Once the optimal combination of the outputs is determined at block the output is provided to the user. The process then returns to block to continue monitoring.

If there is no output to be provided the process determines whether there is data to be processed. The data to be processed may include sensor data such as motion data heart rate data or other types of data. The data to be processed may also include third party data. In one embodiment data processing includes not only using raw sensor data to determine the user s activities sleep phase ergonomics etc. but also providing trend analysis and other processing. If there is data to be processed at block the process identifies the ideal combination of the watch and host device and optionally a remote system such as a server to process the data. In one embodiment this too may be based on the capabilities power levels and data sets available to the devices. The process at block then determines whether the data needs to be passed from its current source for processing. If not the processing takes place and the process returns to block to continue monitoring.

If at block the process determines that the data needs to be passed at block the data is passed from the watch to the host device server or from the host device to the watch server or in some other configuration as determined. The data is then processed. In one embodiment if the other device will use the data in one embodiment the processed data and or the conclusion that results from the processing is passed back at block . In another embodiment the result of the processing is passed back. In one embodiment a relevant output or change in settings or state based on the data is passed back. In another embodiment no data is returned. The process then returns to block to continue monitoring.

If there is no data to be processed at block the process determines whether there is sensor data to be shared. If so at block the sensor data is received. The sensor data may be received by the watch from the host device or by the host device from the watch. The process then returns to block to continue monitoring.

If there is no sensor data to be shared the process continues to block . At block the process determines whether the watch or host device is low on power. If a watch or host device is low on power in one embodiment the system attempts to reduce the likelihood that it will run out of power entirely by reducing the demands made by the extended band on the low battery device.

If a device is low on power at block the processing and output is shifted to the other device. At block the inessential elements of the device are turned off. For example if the watch is low on power in one embodiment all sensors except the motion sensor may be turned off. In one embodiment if the host device has an available motion sensor and is being carried the motion sensor may also be turned off. In normal use when power levels are not an issue the host device and the watch may both monitor user motions to provide amore detailed picture of the user s activities. However when a power issue comes up the elements not absolutely necessary may be turned off to extended battery power. If there is no power issue the process continues directly to block . In one embodiment the system may minimize power consumption even when there is not a low power issue. In that case in one embodiment only one carried device would monitor movement and other physiological data and only one device outputs information to the user. This is less accurate than having two sets of data but is more power efficient. In one embodiment the trade off level may be set by the user. The process then returns to block to continue monitoring the user.

At block the system receives motion and other available data from sensors in the watch. In one embodiment the sensors may include temperature acceleration gyroscope or other motion sensors magnetic sensors barometers heart rate sensors etc. In one embodiment data may also be received from sensors in the host device or external sensors.

At block the data is processed using predictive logic. Predictive logic utilizes the existing information about the user and the patterns of behavior to predict future behavior. This allows the system to compare the actual data to the predicted data and confirm or disprove the expected behavior. This enables analysis of behavior based on less data and with less processing.

At block the process determines whether the watch is in sleep state. If so at block the sleep phase is determined. The sleep phase is predicted based on the past sleep states the time and the sleep cycles of the user. The sleep phase is verified using the sensor data. Once the actual sleep state is identified the data is added to the data store. At block in one embodiment the percentage of sleep compared to the sleep goal is incremented. The hands are moved on the dial to visually represent the percentage sleep achieved compared to the set sleep goal. In one embodiment the display may represent not only an overall sleep goal but also a sleep goal by sleep phase e.g. hours in each sleep phase N1 N2 N3 and REM sleep or deep sleep REM sleep. In one embodiment this type of additional data may also be represented on the watch. The process then returns to block to continue monitoring the user.

If the watch is not in sleep state the process continues to block . At block step data is calculated for the user and added to the data store. Again in one embodiment the predictive logic makes a base assumption for example if the user is walking and not at a known end location the user will keep walking. The sensor data is used to validate the assumption. The result is added to the data store.

At block the number of steps or percentage of steps to the step goal is incremented and the hands of the watch are moved to represent the current results. In one embodiment in addition to measuring a step goal the system may alternatively or additional measure vigorous exercise overall activity and other measurements.

At block the process determines whether the user has been inactive for a set period. In one embodiment the user may configure the watch to alert him or her after a certain period of inactivity. For example the watch may buzz or chime after the user has been inactive for at least 30 minutes. This period and the presence of this alert may be configured by the user on the host device.

If the user has been inactive at block the user is alerted to move. In one embodiment the alert may be a vibration or tone on the watch or a more detailed alert on the host device. In one embodiment the user may be prompted on the host device to stretch or otherwise become active for a short period. It is unhealthy to be sitting still for extended periods and by sending such alerts the user s overall wellbeing is improved. The process then returns to block to continue monitoring the user. If the user has not been inactive the process returns to block directly to continue monitoring the user.

At block the hands of the smart watch are set to the initial starting position. This is needed for the system to be properly initialized. This may be done at the time of assembly or initialization.

At block the micromotors are used to move the hands in the horological device one or more subdials. The subdials may present information about the user s activity sleep or other aspect monitored by the smart watch. Dials may include hands pointing to a number or symbol or a window displaying a number or symbol such as a date window. The horological dial shows the current time and optionally day. Other aspects that may be displayed via subdials may be a state indicator indicating smart watch state e.g. awake sleeping and active the percent or total steps taken or sleep achieved etc.

At block a tracker is adjusted based on the motion and the movement. The tracker tracks the movements of the hands whether those movements are caused by the micromotors e.g. actual changes or by jarring or other issues.

At block the process determines whether another display is requested. In one embodiment the hands may have multiple output functions for example time and health status or date and step goal percentage etc. If another display is requested at block the appropriate dial s are adjusted for the requested data. The tracker in one embodiment continues tracking all changes to the display. The process then continues o block .

At block the process determines whether a reset of the hands is requested or needed. A reset is requested when the user wants to adjust the hands either to reset from a different display or because the user has noticed a discrepancy between the display and the actual time. The system may automatically detect that a reset is needed at block when the location of the hands based on the tracker data does not correspond to the actual location of the hands.

At block the hands are aligned automatically based on the tracker data. As noted the tracker data tracks each movement of the hands. This enables the system to recreate the accurate expected location of the hands even if the system has been misaligned because it was dropped or experienced some other issue.

At block once the hands are aligned the hands are automatically moved to the current time location based on data from the host device. The host device may obtain clock information via a cellular network global positioning system wireless network Internet connection or through some other means. This data is used to reset the hands of the smart watch. The process then returns to block to continue controlling the hands of the device using micromotors.

In one embodiment the tracker uses markings on the dial or hand to track movements. By using such a tracker system enabled by the processor and other elements present in a smart watch the frustrating resetting of a clock display is avoided.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the processes described in the above flowcharts are conceptual representations of the operations used. The specific operations of the processes may not be performed in the order shown and described. For example and in one embodiment the process is interrupt driven rather than sequentially testing for various occurrences. In one embodiment data is received or processed in a different order. The specific operations may not be performed in one continuous series of operations and different specific operations may be performed in different embodiments. Additional operations may be performed or some operations may be skipped. Furthermore the processes could be implemented using several sub processes or as part of a larger macro process. For instance in some embodiments the processes shown in these flowcharts are performed by one or more software applications that execute on one or more computing devices.

The data processing system illustrated in includes a bus or other internal communication means for communicating information and a processing unit coupled to the bus for processing information. The processing unit may be a central processing unit CPU a digital signal processor DSP or another type of processing unit .

The system further includes in one embodiment a random access memory RAM or other volatile storage device referred to as memory coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory may also be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processing unit .

The system also comprises in one embodiment a read only memory ROM and or static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . In one embodiment the system also includes a data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive or Flash memory or other storage which is capable of storing data when no power is supplied to the system. Data storage device in one embodiment is coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

The system may further be coupled to an output device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD coupled to bus through bus for outputting information. The output device may be a visual output device an audio output device and or tactile output device e.g. vibrations etc. 

An input device may be coupled to the bus . The input device may be an alphanumeric input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys for enabling a user to communicate information and command selections to processing unit . An additional user input device may further be included. One such user input device is cursor control device such as a mouse a trackball stylus cursor direction keys or touch screen may be coupled to bus through bus for communicating direction information and command selections to processing unit and for controlling movement on display device .

Another device which may optionally be coupled to computer system is a network device for accessing other nodes of a distributed system via a network. The communication device may include any of a number of commercially available networking peripheral devices such as those used for coupling to an Ethernet token ring Internet or wide area network personal area network wireless network or other method of accessing other devices. The communication device may further be a null modem connection or any other mechanism that provides connectivity between the computer system and the outside world.

Note that any or all of the components of this system illustrated in and associated hardware may be used in various embodiments of the present invention.

In one embodiment the band may include a subset of these elements such as a processor flash memory input output mechanism and communications mechanism. The host device may include a subset of superset of these elements but at least a processing device and a communication device.

It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the particular machine that embodies the present invention may be configured in various ways according to the particular implementation. The control logic or software implementing the present invention can be stored in main memory mass storage device or other storage medium locally or remotely accessible to processor .

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the system method and process described herein can be implemented as software stored in main memory or read only memory and executed by processor . This control logic or software may also be resident on an article of manufacture comprising a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein and being readable by the mass storage device and for causing the processor to operate in accordance with the methods and teachings herein.

The present invention may also be embodied in a handheld or portable device containing a subset of the computer hardware components described above. For example the handheld device may be configured to contain only the bus the processor and memory and or .

The handheld device may be configured to include a set of buttons or input signaling components with which a user may select from a set of available options. These could be considered input device 1 or input device 2 . The handheld device may also be configured to include an output device such as a liquid crystal display LCD or display element matrix for displaying information to a user of the handheld device. Conventional methods may be used to implement such a handheld device. The implementation of the present invention for such a device would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art given the disclosure of the present invention as provided herein.

The present invention may also be embodied in a special purpose appliance including a subset of the computer hardware components described above such as a kiosk or a vehicle. For example the appliance may include a processing unit a data storage device a bus and memory and no input output mechanisms or only rudimentary communications mechanisms such as a small touch screen that permits the user to communicate in a basic manner with the device. In general the more special purpose the device is the fewer of the elements need be present for the device to function. In some devices communications with the user may be through a touch based screen or similar mechanism. In one embodiment the device may not provide any direct input output signals but may be configured and accessed through a website or other network based connection through network device .

It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any configuration of the particular machine implemented as the computer system may be used according to the particular implementation. The control logic or software implementing the present invention can be stored on any machine readable medium locally or remotely accessible to processor . A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices or other storage media which may be used for temporary or permanent data storage. In one embodiment the control logic may be implemented as transmittable data such as electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. .

In one embodiment the host device is computer system with the expert system and analysis performed by a processor DSP or similar processing capable device. In one embodiment the host and or band may include multiple processors such as a low power processor and a high power processor. In one embodiment the sensors may be separately powered as well.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

