---

title: Global management of tiered storage resources
abstract: Provisioning storage resources for customers from a distributed grid of disparate storage systems is presented herein. A storage tier component can sort, based on attributes of heterogeneous computer-readable storage media, the heterogeneous computer-readable storage media into tiers of storage to facilitate provisioning a portion of storage space of a tier of the tiers for a computing resource. Further, the storage tier component can receive an input from a device for provisioning of the portion of the storage space of the tier, and configure, based on the input, a storage resource to facilitate access between the portion of the storage space of the tier and the computing resource. Furthermore, a tracking component can create an account associated with a customer that is associated with the device to facilitate tracking and/or limiting of utilization of the portion of the storage space of the tier by the customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578100&OS=09578100&RS=09578100
owner: OS NEXUS, INC.
number: 09578100
owner_city: Mercer Island
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150918
---
This patent application is a continuation of and claims priority to each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 621 933 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 158 458 filed on Sep. 18 2012 entitled GLOBAL MANAGEMENT OF TIERED STORAGE RESOURCES which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 537 542 filed on Sep. 21 2011 entitled CLOUD INTEGRATION. The entireties of the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

This disclosure relates generally to data storage including but not limited to global management of tiered storage resources.

Providing disparate computer readable storage resources that are located across multiple data centers for computing resources is complex as conventional storage technologies utilize technical staff to manage allocate etc. such storage resources for hundreds thousands etc. of diverse computing resources. Further such conventional storage technologies are error prone and economically limiting.

The above described deficiencies of today s computer readable storage environments and related technologies are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional technology and are not intended to be exhaustive representative or always applicable. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of illustrative non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some illustrative non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow. It will also be appreciated that the detailed description may include additional or alternative embodiments beyond those described in this summary.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure various non limiting aspects are described in connection with dynamically provisioning storage resource s for customer s from a distributed grid of disparate geographically dispersed etc. storage systems and networks. In one or more aspects computer readable storage media of the disparate storage systems can be automatically dynamically etc. grouped sorted etc. into storage tiers grades ranks levels etc. based on respective qualities e.g. performance size geographical location etc. of the storage media. Further a selection of a quantity and a geographical location of storage to be provisioned from one of the storage tiers based on a cost can be received from a customer device or portal. Furthermore a designation of a computing resource system server device mobile device virtual machine virtual storage appliance etc. to be assigned e.g. communicatively coupled etc. to the storage can be received from the customer device. Furthermore the storage can be automatically dynamically etc. provisioned for use by the computing resource by configuring storage resource s e.g. storage network component s e.g. storage network switch es virtual local area networks VLANs virtual storage area networks VSANs virtual host bus adaptors HBAs etc. to deliver communicatively couple etc. the storage to the computing resource.

In various embodiments a storage tier component can sort group add organize etc. heterogeneous e.g. disparate geographically dispersed etc. computer readable storage media of e.g. a storage system a storage appliance a solid state disk SSD etc. into tiers grades levels ranks etc. of storage based on attributes of the heterogeneous computer readable storage media to facilitate provisioning a portion e.g. a storage volume a portion of a pool etc. of the storage from a tier of the tiers for a computing resource e.g. a system a server a device a virtual machine a virtual storage appliance a mobile device etc.

In an aspect the attributes can include a size a capability a fail over capability a service level agreement a cost a geographical location a geographical location of a data center a performance level a quality of service a storage grade an availability a type of storage medium a fault tolerance level a software vendor of software a hardware vendor of hardware a hardware version of the hardware a software version of the software etc. associated with a storage medium of the heterogeneous computer readable storage media.

Further the storage tier component can receive an input from a device for provisioning of the portion of the storage from the tier. In one aspect the input can represent indicate etc. a size of the portion of the storage a quality e.g. level of performance availability etc. of the portion of the storage a geographical location of the portion of the storage one or more properties of the computing resource etc. Further the storage tier component can facilitate access of the portion of the storage by the computing resource.

Furthermore the storage tier component can configure dynamically configure etc. a storage fabric a storage resource e.g. a storage system a host a hypervisor a network component e.g. a virtual local area network VLAN component a virtual storage area network VSAN component a virtual host bus adaptor HBA etc. to facilitate access between the portion of the storage and the computing resource e.g. to communicatively couple the computing resource to the storage so that the portion can be utilized by the computing resource to effectively deliver the storage to the computing resource etc.

In one embodiment a tracking component can create an account associated with a customer that is associated with the device to facilitate tracking of utilization of the portion of the storage by the customer. In an aspect the tracking component can limit utilization of the portion of the storage by the customer based on a predetermined quota condition etc. associated with the access e.g. to limit an effect on use of other portions of the storage by other customers. In another aspect the tracking component can update a data store with information that represents available storage space of the tier in response to a facilitation of the access between the portion of the storage and the computing resource.

In another embodiment a storage management component can receive administration credentials to facilitate access to the heterogeneous computer readable storage media and add remove the portion of the storage to from the tier using the administrative credentials.

In yet another embodiment a network crawler component can receive credentials e.g. a user name and or a password identification ID etc. associated with network resources including the storage resource and in an aspect store the credentials in a data store for access configuration of the network resources. Further the network crawler component can discover build map identify etc. a topology of a fabric network fabric etc. of the network resources based on the credentials. The network resources can include network endpoints for example that can be associated with hardware identifiers including e.g. a media access control MAC address for Ethernet hardware a World Wide Name WWN and or a World Wide Identifier WWID associated with e.g. Fibre Channel FC Advanced Technology Attachment ATA Serial Attached Small Computer System Interface SCSI SAS etc. resources and or nodes switches etc. Further the network crawler component can communicatively couple using the topology the credentials etc. the storage resource to the portion of the storage and the computing resource. For example the network crawler component can log into network switch es based on one or more of the credentials to communicatively couple via the network switch es the storage resource to the portion of the storage and the computing resource.

In an embodiment the network crawler component can communicatively couple the storage resource to a virtual resource e.g. a virtual storage appliance allocated in a hypervisor cluster or a virtual machine manager VMM cluster as a virtual machine operating platform etc.

In another embodiment a quality of service QoS component can determine a QoS setting associated with the access based on the input. For example the QoS setting can include a predetermined condition representing an availability of the storage a bandwidth associated with a transfer of data between the computing resource and the storage etc. Further the QoS component can configure a bandwidth setting associated with the storage resource e.g. select and or configure a network switch a VLAN a VSAN etc. of the network topology based on the QoS setting.

In yet another embodiment an account management component e.g. communicatively coupled to the tracking component can determine a fee to charge back to the customer associated with the account e.g. according to an amount of storage that was provisioned and or utilized by the customer.

In one embodiment an application programming interface API component can facilitate discovering the tiers and or attributes of the tiers utilizing an API. Further the API component can facilitate modifying the tiers creating the account associated with the customer tracking utilization of the portion of the storage and or configuring assigning etc. the storage resource.

In one non limiting implementation a method can include grouping by a system including a processor heterogeneous e.g. geographically dispersed etc. storage into grades tiers levels ranks etc. of storage based on characteristics of the heterogeneous storage for facilitating provisioning storage space from a grade of the grades. Further the method can include receiving a request an input etc. for provisioning of the storage space from the grade. Furthermore the method can include communicatively coupling the storage space to a computing resource e.g. a mobile device a system a server a virtual machine a virtual storage appliance etc. via a network resource e.g. a VLAN component a VSAN component etc. based on the request.

In another embodiment the method can include receiving credentials e.g. passwords network identifiers etc. associated with network resources including the network resource. Further the method can include mapping using the credentials a topology of a fabric of the network resources including network endpoints. Furthermore the method can include communicatively coupling the storage space to the computing resource according to the topology of the fabric of the network resources.

In yet another embodiment the method can include tracking usage of the storage space and billing a customer account associated with the request in response to the tracking of the usage. In one embodiment the method can further include limiting the usage of the storage space based on a predetermined condition associated with the grade.

Another non limiting limitation can include a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a computing system including a processor to perform operations. Further the operations can include adding heterogeneous storage resources to ranks tiers levels stages etc. of storage resources based on attributes of the storage resources receiving a request for communicatively coupling one or more portions of a rank of the ranks to a computing resource and facilitating based on the request access between the portion of the rank and the computing resource.

In one embodiment the operations can include discovering mapping recording etc. a topology of a communication fabric of network resources communicatively coupled to the ranks of storage resources. Further the operations can include communicatively coupling the portion of the rank to the computing resource according to the topology of the communication fabric.

In another embodiment the operations can include configuring a network switch e.g. a virtual switch etc. of the network resources and communicatively coupling the portion of the rank to the computing resource via the network switch. In yet another embodiment the operations can include limiting the access based on a quota a predetermined condition etc. representing a limit of a use of the portion of the rank.

Other embodiments and various non limiting examples scenarios and implementations are described in more detail below.

Various non limiting embodiments of systems methods and apparatus presented herein dynamically provision storage resource s for customer s from a distributed grid of geographically dispersed storage systems. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the techniques described herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring certain aspects.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

As utilized herein terms component system interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a processor a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a storage device and or a computer. By way of illustration an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Further these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network etc. with other systems via the signal .

As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry the electric or electronic circuitry can be operated by a software application or a firmware application executed by one or more processors the one or more processors can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include one or more processors therein to execute software and or firmware that confer s at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

The word exemplary and or demonstrative is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

Artificial intelligence based systems e.g. utilizing explicitly and or implicitly trained classifiers can be employed in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations as in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter as described herein. For example an artificial intelligence system can be used via storage tier component see below to sort based on attributes of heterogeneous computer readable storage media the heterogeneous computer readable storage media into tiers of storage to facilitate provisioning a portion of storage space of a tier of the tiers for a computing resource. Further the artificial intelligence system can configure via storage management component a storage resource of a network to facilitate access between the portion of the storage space of the tier and the computing resource in response to receiving an input for provisioning of the portion of the storage space from the tier.

As used herein the term infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment user and or intent from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Captured data and events can include user data device data environment data data from sensors sensor data application data implicit data explicit data etc. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events for example.

Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic and data fusion engines can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the disclosed subject matter.

In addition the disclosed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device computer readable carrier or computer readable media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to a magnetic storage device e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip s an optical disk e.g. compact disk CD a digital video disc DVD a Blu ray Disc BD a smart card a flash memory device e.g. card stick key drive and or a virtual device that emulates a storage device and or any of the above computer readable media.

As described above conventional techniques cannot adequately provide cost effective reliable etc. allocation of geographically dispersed computer readable storage resources across multiple locations for hundreds thousands etc. of disparate computing resources. Compared to such technology various systems methods and apparatus described herein in various embodiments can improve user experience s by dynamically provisioning storage resources from a distributed grid of disparate storage systems.

Referring now to a block diagram of a tiered storage infrastructure is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Aspects of tiered storage infrastructure and systems networks other apparatus and processes explained herein can constitute machine executable instructions embodied within machine s e.g. embodied in one or more computer readable mediums or media associated with one or more machines. Such instructions when executed by the one or more machines e.g. computer s computing device s virtual machine s etc. can cause the machine s to perform the operations described.

Additionally the systems and processes explained herein can be embodied within hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. Further the order in which some or all of the process blocks appear in each process should not be deemed limiting. Rather it should be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the instant disclosure that some of the process blocks can be executed in a variety of orders not illustrated.

Tiered storage infrastructure can include storage tier component and heterogeneous storage . Heterogeneous storage can include geographically dispersed computer readable storage media e.g. a storage system a storage appliance a solid state disk SSD a virtual storage appliance a storage pool etc. In an aspect storage tier component can sort group add organize etc. heterogeneous storage into tiers of storage based on attributes of heterogeneous storage to facilitate provisioning a portion e.g. a storage volume a portion of the storage pool etc. of the storage from a tier e.g. of tiers of storage for customer computing resource e.g. a system a server a device a virtual machine a virtual storage appliance a mobile device etc.

In an aspect the attributes can include a size a capability a fail over capability a service level agreement a cost a geographical location a geographical location of a data center a performance level a quality of service a storage grade an availability a type of storage medium a fault tolerance level a software vendor of software a hardware vendor of hardware a hardware version of the hardware a software version of the software etc. associated with a storage medium of heterogeneous storage .

For example as illustrated by storage tier component can sort heterogeneous storage into tiers of storage according to varying performance and or fault tolerance levels of storage. For example platinum storage tier e.g. tier is be associated with high cost highly available high performance computer readable storage London 3000 terabyte TB storage Seattle 200 TB storage Dallas 200 TB storage Paris 3000 TB storage that is associated with a level of QoS that is higher than a level of QoS of gold storage tier e.g. tier which is associated with high cost highly available medium low performance computer readable storage London 3000 TB storage Seattle 400 TB storage Dallas 400 TB storage New York 3000 TB storage .

Further silver storage tier e.g. tier can be associated with low cost high performance computer readable storage Seattle 3000 TB storage Dallas 3000 TB storage that is associated with a level of QoS that is lower than the level of QoS of gold storage tier but higher than a level of QoS of bronze storage tier e.g. tier which is associated with low cost low performance computer readable storage Chicago 1000 TB storage Seattle 1000 TB storage Dallas 1000 TB storage New York 3000 TB storage .

In another embodiment illustrated by storage tier component can derive storage tiers utilizing storage from storage systems storage grid storage system and storage system . As such platinum storage located in Seattle includes storage from solid state drive SSD storage pool platinum storage located in New York includes storage from SSD storage pool Serial Advanced Technology Attachment SATA storage pool and SATA storage pool gold storage located in Seattle includes storage from hybrid storage pool gold storage located in New York includes storage from hybrid storage pool bronze storage located in Seattle includes storage from SATA storage pool and bronze storage located in New York includes storage from SATA storage pool and SATA storage pool .

Referring again to storage tier component can receive an input e.g. via the Internet etc. from a device for provisioning a portion of storage from a tier of tiers of storage . In one aspect the input can represent indicate etc. a size of the portion of the storage a quality e.g. level of performance availability etc. of the portion of the storage a geographical location of the portion of the storage one or more properties of a computing resource e.g. customer computing resource etc.

Further based on the input storage tier component can configure dynamically configure etc. network component e.g. a storage fabric a storage resource a storage system a host a hypervisor a virtual local area network VLAN component a virtual storage area network VSAN component a virtual host bus adaptor HBA etc. to facilitate access between the portion of the storage from the tier and customer computing resource e.g. communicatively coupling customer computing resource to the storage from the tier.

In one aspect the storage from the tier can include various computer readable storage technologies e.g. virtual hard disk device VHD file s physical SCSI device s SATA device s Serial Attached SCSI SAS device s Serial Storage Architecture SSA device s and or SSD device s . In another aspect network component can be communicatively coupled between the storage from the tier and customer computing resource utilizing a Small Computer System Interface SCSI which is a peripheral peer to peer interface that can be used e.g. in personal computer PC server systems a SCSI over Fiber Channel protocol an SAS protocol an Internet SCSI iSCSI protocol which is an Internet Protocol IP based storage networking standard for linking data storage facilities and or entities an Advanced Technology AT Attachment ATA interface an ATA over Ethernet AoE interface other Storage Area Network SAN protocol s etc.

Now referring to a block diagram of storage tier component is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Storage tier component includes tracking component storage management component network crawler component quality of service component account management component and application programming interface component .

In one embodiment tracking component can create an account associated with a customer that is associated with customer computing resource to facilitate tracking monitoring recording etc. of utilization of the portion of the storage from the tier by the customer. In an aspect tracking component can limit utilization of the portion of the storage by the customer based on a predetermined quota condition etc. associated with the access e.g. to limit an effect on use of other portions of the storage by other customers. For example in response to the tracking revealing use of the portion of the storage reducing an overall bandwidth associated with access of other portions of the storage of the tier by another customer tracking component can alert the customer that another tier of storage e.g. associated with a higher level of performance should be selected by the consumer and or can alert the customer that limits associated with the use of the tier have been imposed on the account. In another embodiment tracking component can update a data store not shown with information representing available storage space of the tier e.g. in response to use of the tier by the customer.

In another embodiment storage management component can receive administration credentials to facilitate access to portion s of heterogeneous storage e.g. for sorting mapping dividing etc. storage of heterogeneous storage into tiers of storage using the administrative credentials.

In yet another embodiment network crawler component can receive credentials e.g. a user name and or a password identification ID etc. associated with network resources e.g. of network component etc. including the storage resource and in an aspect store the credentials in a data store for access configuration of the network resources. Further network crawler component can discover build map identify etc. a topology of a fabric network fabric etc. of the network resources e.g. associated with network component based on the credentials. The network resources can include network endpoints for example that can be associated with hardware identifiers including e.g. a MAC address for Ethernet hardware a WWN and or a WWID associated with e.g. FC ATA SCSI SAS etc. resources and or nodes switches etc.

Further network crawler component can communicatively couple using the topology the credentials etc. the storage resource e.g. a VLAN component a VSAN component a virtual HBA etc. to the portion of storage of the tier and customer computing resource . For example network crawler component can log into network switch es based on one or more of the credentials to communicatively couple via the network switch es the storage resource to the portion of storage of the tier and customer computing resource . In one embodiment network crawler component can communicatively couple the portion of storage of the tier to a virtual resource e.g. a virtual storage appliance allocated in a hypervisor cluster or a VMM cluster as a virtual machine operating platform etc.

In another embodiment QoS component can determine a QoS setting associated with the portion of storage of the tier based on the input. For example the QoS setting can include a predetermined condition representing an availability of the portion of storage of the tier a bandwidth associated with a transfer of data between customer computing resource and the portion of storage of the tier etc. Further QoS component can configure a bandwidth setting associated with the portion of storage of the tier e.g. select and or configure a network switch a VLAN component a VSAN component etc. of network component based on the QoS setting.

In yet another embodiment account management component e.g. communicatively coupled to tracking component can determine a fee to charge back a fee to the customer associated with the account e.g. according to an amount of storage that was provisioned and or utilized by the customer.

In one embodiment API component can facilitate discovering tiers of tiers of storage and or attributes of the tiers utilizing an API e.g. associated with an Internet based interface. Further API component can facilitate modifying tiers of storage creating the account associated with the customer tracking utilization of the portion of the tier of storage and or configuring assigning etc. the storage resource e.g. a network switch a VLAN component a VSAN component etc.

Referring now to a process associated with a storage tier component e.g. etc. is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. At heterogeneous storage e.g. geographically dispersed computer readable storage media can be grouped sorted etc. into tiers grades levels etc. of storage by a system including a processor based on characteristics e.g. a size a capability a fail over capability a service level agreement a cost a geographical location a geographical location of a data center a performance level a quality of service a storage grade an availability a type of storage medium a fault tolerance level a software vendor of software a hardware vendor of hardware a hardware version of the hardware a software version of the software etc. associated with the heterogeneous storage.

At a request for provisioning storage space from a grade a tier a level etc. of the grades tiers levels etc. for use by a computing resource. In an aspect the request can be received by the system via the Internet. At storage space can be provisioned from the tier e.g. communicatively coupled to a computing resource via one or more network components resources etc. for use by a computing resource based on the request.

If it is determined at that the network resources are available then flow continues to at which storage from the tier can be provisioned for use by a computing resource otherwise flow continues to . Further at the storage can be assigned to the computing resource e.g. utilizing a data store etc.

At if it is determined security infrastructure is available then flow continues to at which the computing resource can be configured to communicate with a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP or other security server for authentication and or authorization. Otherwise flow continues to at which it can be determined whether encryption is requested. If encryption is requested then flow continues to at which encryption policies can be configured in a switch fabric the storage of the tier a virtual storage appliance VSA etc. Otherwise flow continues to at which it can be determined whether a QoS level is requested. If the QoS level is requested then flow continues to at which QoS controls in the switch fabric the storage of the tier the VSA etc. can be configured to match e.g. an SLA. At usage of the storage of the tier can be enabled monitored reported billed etc.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database storage medium and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in storage systems described above non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented e.g. various processes associated with . While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive systems can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. PDA phone watch microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer can also include removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media networked attached storage NAS e.g. SAN storage etc. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 110 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information into computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

The above description of illustrated embodiments of the subject disclosure including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples are described herein for illustrative purposes various modifications are possible that are considered within the scope of such embodiments and examples as those skilled in the relevant art can recognize.

In this regard while the disclosed subject matter has been described in connection with various embodiments and corresponding Figures where applicable it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiments for performing the same similar alternative or substitute function of the disclosed subject matter without deviating therefrom. Therefore the disclosed subject matter should not be limited to any single embodiment described herein but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims below.

