---

title: Facilitation of delay error correction in timing-based location systems
abstract: Computation of delay error offset information is facilitated. A method can include receiving measurement information indicative of a location of a mobile device, calibrating the measurement information resulting in calibrated measurement information, comparing the calibrated measurement information and historical calibrated measurement information, and computing a measurement error based, at least, on the comparing, wherein the measurement error includes delay error offset information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591495&OS=09591495&RS=09591495
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09591495
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151215
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 516 286 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 247 441 filed Oct. 16 2014 and entitled FACILITATION OF DELAY ERROR CORRECTION IN TIMING BASED LOCATION SYSTEMS which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 551 369 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 892 054 filed Jul. 17 2012 and entitled FACILITATION OF DELAY ERROR CORRECTION IN TIMING BASED LOCATION SYSTEMS. The entireties of these application s and patent s are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to various embodiments that facilitate delay error correction in timing based location systems.

Locating systems are becoming widespread with the onslaught of location based services. Applications that depend on such services are growing and the need for accurate measurement information is ever present and compelling.

One or more embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It is evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details and without applying to any particular networked environment or standard .

Moreover the following descriptions of the various embodiments are intended to neither identify key or critical elements of any of the embodiments nor delineate any scope particular to such embodiments or any scope of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface platform service framework connector controller or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or application programming interface API components.

Further the various embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or computer readable storage communications media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the various embodiments.

In addition the words example and exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an instance or illustration. Any embodiment or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or designs. Rather use of the word example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms such as user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station access terminal terminal handset mobile device and or terms representing similar terminology can refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably herein and with reference to the related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station BS Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB and the like are utilized interchangeably in the application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that transmits and or receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from one or more subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout unless context warrants particular distinctions among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based at least on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Embodiments described herein can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology including but not limited to Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Zigbee and other 802.XX wireless technologies and or legacy telecommunication technologies. Further the term femto and femtocell are used interchangeably and the terms macro and macrocell are used interchangeably.

Conventional propagation modeling software which adjusts signals across a signal propagation area employs static models to represent clutter and terrain data. Accordingly conventional approaches fail to accurately model dynamic environments resultant from seasonal changes in foliage unlicensed repeaters and new building and home construction. In real time location systems a level of inaccuracy in a system is typically balanced against computational speed and cost as greater accuracy generally results in higher cost and slower speed.

Employing radio resource control RRC measurement reporting and the corresponding procedure measurement results can be transferred from the mobile device to a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN . The RRC measurement reports can be sent periodically or upon occurrence of an event trigger. Periodic measurements can be setup in the radio network controller RNC by the operator in some embodiments.

Timing based location methods utilize reported measurements from the RRC Measurement Report. These measurements include each individual Primary Scrambling Code PSC and an associated measured time difference to cell T measurement.

The PSC represents a single radio carrier or broadcasting cell. For each PSC a Tmeasurement is reported. Pairs of Tmeasurements between two distinct cells can be calculated to represent the observed time difference OTD between the two cells.

Employing a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP location report and corresponding procedure the mobile device location information can be transmitted to the core network CN . The procedure can employ connection oriented signaling. In some embodiments the RANAP location report can be limited to location information based on an Assisted Global Positioning System AGPS .

The system frame number SFN connection frame number CFN OTD is a measurement for handoff timing to identify an active cell and neighbor cell time difference.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative embodiments of the embodiments. These embodiments are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the embodiments can be employed. Other features of the embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

In one embodiment a method for delay error correction in timing based location systems can include receiving by a system including a processor measurement information indicative of a location of a mobile device calibrating by the system the measurement information resulting in calibrated measurement information comparing by the system the calibrated measurement information and historical calibrated measurement information and computing by the system a measurement error based at least on the comparing wherein the measurement error includes delay error offset information. In some embodiments the method can also include applying the delay error offset information to subsequently received measurement information indicative of a location of a mobile device.

In one embodiment a system can include a memory storing computer executable instructions and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory that facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to at least receive measurement information indicative of a location impacted by a physical obstruction determine a reference frame of a bin wherein the bin corresponds to the location and distribute delay error offset information to a plurality of frames of the bin within a predetermined distance from the reference frame.

In one embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium can store computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include determining measurement information indicative of a location associated with a cell site pair and adjusting the measurement information based at least on delay error offset information generated for the measurement information wherein the delay error offset information is a function of calibration error calculated for the measurement information.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative embodiments of the embodiments. These embodiments are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the embodiments can be employed. Other features of the embodiments can become apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

In various embodiments described herein systems and or methods can determine geographic locations from mobile devices through the use of AGPS location technology. The geographic location can be employed to calibrate BS timing of the UMTS network. As a result timed fingerprinting of the geographical location of mobile devices can be performed.

In various embodiments the systems and or methods described herein can perform the timed fingerprinting of the mobile devices employing binning calibration and locating processes.

For example in some embodiments the binning process can pre compute time delay differentials and sensitivities between cell site pairs and fixed geographic bins. As such binning can be a non real time process in some embodiments.

The geographic bins can represent geographic locations in various embodiments. Coordinate references can be used with fixed latitude and longitude offset multipliers allowing integer based x and y coordinates for simplified indexing and lookup.

Approximately 100 meters of width and height for each bin can be employed in some embodiments. For example in various embodiments an approximate 100 msize bin can be used with a fixed longitude offset of approximately 0.0012 and a fixed latitude offset of approximately 0.0009. In some embodiments coordinate references can be employed to represent various different geographic landmasses. For example in the case of the United States there can be four landmasses to consider e.g. Alaska Hawaii Puerto Rico and the Continental United States . The reference point used can represent the southwestern most point to the landmass which can be the minimum latitude and minimum longitude for the landmass.

In other embodiments bins of other sizes can be employed to account for differences in geography in various places throughout the United States or world.

Turning now to the calibration location and multi lateration processes the calibration process can be a semi real time process that can include but is not limited to real time call tracking AGPS determinations timing synchronization PSC translation calibration of the OTD between cell site pairs derived calibration and or calibration requests.

The locating process can be a real time process that can include but is not limited to initial locating calculations calculation of sensitivity sensitivity rankings and filters calculation of least error and final locating results.

The multi lateration process can be a method of computing location of the mobile device from the time difference of arrival TDOA of a signal from multiple e.g. three or more transmitters to a single receiver. With respect to W CDMA for example the multiple transmitters can be BSs while the single receiver can be the mobile device. In some embodiments calibration is employed in addition to multi lateration to synchronize cell site measurements.

In various embodiments an AGPS locate request can be triggered by any number of different types of platforms including but not limited to a Location Based Services LBS platform. When a control plane based request is made the Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC can send the request to the RNC at which the mobile device is currently active. The mobile device can report periodic and event based RRC measurement reports containing timing based information. Further the mobile device can provide to the CN through the RANAP location report the information requested via the AGPS locate request. Information in the RRC measurement report and the RANAP location report can then be synchronized in time to perform error estimation.

The timing based location TBL system can compute timing based fingerprint information corresponding to the location for the one or more mobile devices .

The DEC component can compute delay error information for facilitating delay error correction in the TBL system . In some embodiments the DEC component can compute adjustments to the timing based fingerprint information computed for the one or more mobile devices by the TBL system . The adjustments can be delay error offset values in some embodiments.

In various embodiments the structure and or functionality of the DEC component can be as described with reference to or vice versa . Turning first to illustrates an example system that can be employed to facilitate delay error correction in timing based location systems. illustrates an example delay error mitigation grid that can be employed to facilitate delay error correction in timing based location systems. illustrates an example data storage that facilitates delay error correction in timing based location systems.

As shown in the DEC can include a communication component a delay error offset component bin component memory and or processor . In various embodiments one or more of the communication component delay error offset component bin component memory and or processor can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of the DEC .

The communication component can transmit and or receive information to and or from one or more mobile devices and or one or more other cells sites. In some embodiments the communication component can obtain or determine measurement information associated with a mobile device. For example the measurement information can include AGPS associated with the geographical location of the mobile device. In some embodiments the measurement information can include

The AGPS information can include latitude and longitude information and or any other type of information for identifying a geographical location of the mobile device and or one or more cell sites.

The delay error offset component can provide a real time self updating process to calculate adjustments to the distance between a mobile and a BS e.g. D and to calculate adjustments to the distance between a mobile and the BS e.g. D . The adjustments can be delay error offsets in various embodiments.

The adjustments can be employed to correct the measurement information for the location of the mobile device as the measurement information may not account for propagation delay due to signal repeaters physical structures seasonal change in foliage and the like. The adjustments can be delay error offsets in various embodiments.

In some embodiments after the communication component receives the location measurement from the mobile device the delay error offset component can perform a calibration employing the measurement information.

The delay error offset component can then compare the calibrated result against a previously stored calibrated result from a past measurement. The delay error offset component can then compute the difference between the current calibrated result and the previously stored calibrated result can be an error value Msuch as that shown in Equation 1 below. Equation 1 where represents physical location pairs of cell sites ORis the newly measured calibration measurement and ORis the previously stored historical calibration measurement.

With each new calibration measurement the delay error offset component can calculate a new calibration measurement error. In some embodiments the measurement error can be the root mean square RMS error. Accordingly the measurement error can be updated over time to reflect changes in measurement information which can result from seasonal changes in foliage the construction of new physical structures and the like .

The delay error offset component can assign the error value as being equal to the delay error offset in some embodiments. The offset can be stored in association with the bin that represents the geographical location of the mobile device. Accordingly offsets can be computed for each bin for each BS site pair.

In these embodiments the delay error offsets can be applied to future measurements to determine a more accurate distance between the mobile device and the BS.

In various embodiments collection of measurement information calibration computation of measurement error and or assignment of measurement error to delay error offset can be performed over time and the results aggregated over time for one or more different mobile devices. As such the systems and methods described herein can facilitate an accumulation of errors at particular AGPS locations.

Further in various embodiments offsets calculated for overlapping locations can be aggregated to improve error estimates and reduce the impact of quantization and mobile device measurement error.

The bin component will be described with reference to . The bin component can construct tables and or information indicative of a bin such as bin shown in . The bin can represent a physical location covering a region associated with or between two cell sites. In some embodiments the bin can represent a physical location covering a region associated with the geographical location of a mobile device.

As described above the bin component can construct the bin with fixed latitude and longitude offset multipliers allowing integer based x and y coordinates for simplified indexing and lookup. In some embodiments the bin can be 100 meters m of wide and 100 m high although other dimensions for bins are possible and envisioned . In various embodiments an approximate 100 msize bin can be constructed with a fixed longitude offset of approximately 0.0012 and a fixed latitude offset of approximately 0.0009. The frames of the bin can be 1 10the size of the bin .

The bin component can receive one or more delay error offsets computed by the delay error offset component for a bin . In these embodiments the bin component can store delay error offset information in the frames of the bin .

The bin component can perform extrapolation to assign values in the various frames in some embodiments. In various embodiments the values are percentages that can represent weights to be applied at geographical locations corresponding to the frame of the bin . The values can decrease with increasing distance from the center of the bin in some embodiments.

For example when the system receives a measurement and an associated AGPS reading the AGPS reading represents a small area e.g. 10 m as shown in . Because the error in measurement at the frame corresponding to the small area can be larger than the confined area of the frame the value associated with the frame can be distributed to frames that are adjacent to the frame corresponding to the small area. As shown in the center frame can be associated with a full weight of the error and the further from the center frame a frame is located the less weight of the error. As such the values as shown in decrease as the distance from the center frame increases. Each measurement received can be processed according to such approach and the values employed for the weights can aggregate with a plurality of measurements.

The values can be percentages ranging from 0 percent to 100 percent. Each measurement can be applied to the four adjacent frames and three levels out with a measurement weighting. 100 weighting will be applied to measurements made at the center frames. 75 weighting will be applied to measurements made at the first level adjacent frames. 50 weighting will be applied at the second level frames and 25 at the third level frames. For each frame the bin component can provide to the data storage the delay error offset information timestamp and percentage weighting information. Other values are possible in other embodiments and are envisaged.

When determining the delay error offset to use during the mobile locating process all of the measurements with corresponding weights can be used in aggregate to output a single delay error constant.

For example the weights can be as shown in . By way of example the center frame of can be assigned the location corresponding to an AGPS measurement from the mobile device. The error calculation can be used at full weight 100 for the 4 center frames. The error can have less weight at the next layer 75 and at subsequent layers e.g. the next layer 50 and the next layer 25 . Accordingly an error can be assigned from the calculation to the frames having values corresponding to 25 . However such frames contribute only 25 of the weighting when used in aggregate with other measurements AGPS locates.

In some embodiments Equation 1 can be the error formula for each occurrence i.e. for each measurement and AGPS location . The measurement can be then weighted by the above mentioned values and applied across frames that are adjacent to those of the center frame which represents the location of the measurement . The multiple measurements that are weighed can then be aggregated on a per frame basis to determine an aggregate the measurement and apply across adjacent bins as shown in then we aggregate multiple measurements on a per bin basis to come up with an aggregate Mfor each 10 mframe.

During the locating process if an Mvalue exists for a given frame under evaluation the error offset can be applied to improve location estimation in some embodiments. If an Mdoesn t exist for a frame then no Mis used.

In various embodiments the Mvalue can be used in different types of locating algorithms e.g. multi lateration hyperbolic and timed fingerprint locating algorithms and can prove equally effective across each to improve the result.

Over time the accuracy of the measurements may weaken in value due to changes in actual clutter e.g. trees buildings other obstructions . When a minimum of two new measurements result in a significant difference from prior measurements prior measurements can be discarded for the bin representing such geographical area from which measurements were received and all measurements which were extrapolated at three levels out from the bin and can be fully replaced by the new measurements.

Further in various embodiments a rolling history of the delay error offset information and weights over time can be stored. Feedback statistics can be employed to determine the optimal time period over which to store delay error offset information and weights.

The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the DEC . For example the memory can store information including but not limited to delay error offset information newly measured and historical calibration information AGPS information bin weights timestamp information or the like. Processor can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the DEC .

Turning now to in various embodiments the data storage can include various different type of information for determining delay error offset information. By way of example but not limitation the data storage can include delay error offset information cell site pair information historical calibration information and or bin information .

In various embodiments the delay error offset information can include delay error offsets computed over time for particular bins for cell site pairs the cell site pair information can include information identifying the cell site pairs the historical calibration information can include stored calibration information computed from previous measurements calibrated and or the bin information can include information indicative of the values shown in and or information identifying the configuration of values within a particular bin.

Turning first to at method can include receiving by a system including a processor measurement information indicative of a location of a mobile device. At method can include calibrating by the system the measurement information resulting in calibrated measurement information. At method can include comparing by the system the calibrated measurement information and historical calibrated measurement information. At method can include computing by the system a measurement error based at least on the comparing wherein the measurement error includes delay error offset information. Although not shown in various embodiments the delay error offset information can be applied to subsequently received measurement information indicative of a location of a mobile device. The applied delay error offset information can be employed in improving the locating ability of the systems described herein.

Turning now to at method can include receiving by a system including a processor measurement information indicative of a location impacted by a physical obstruction. At method can include determining by the system a reference frame of a bin corresponding to the location. At method can include distributing by the system delay error offset information to a plurality of frames of the bin within a predetermined distance from the reference frame.

Turning now to at method can include determining measurement information indicative of a location associated with a cell site pair. At method can include adjusting the measurement information based at least on delay error offset information generated for the measurement information wherein the delay error offset information is a function of calibration error calculated for the measurement information.

Turning now to at method can include generating calibrated measurement information for a cell site pair. At method can include computing a calibration error for the measurement information for the cell site pair based at least on a difference between the newly generated calibration measurement information and historical calibrated measurement information collected over time.

Turning now to at method can include generating delay error offset information based at least on measurement information received for one or more mobile devices over a predefined time. At method can include aggregating delay error offset information associated with measurement information collected for a plurality of overlapping geographical regions.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to facilitate delay error correction in timing based location systems. In order to provide additional context for various embodiments of the embodiments described herein and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various embodiments of the embodiment described herein can be implemented. While the embodiments have been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments can be also implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated embodiments of the embodiments herein can be also practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various embodiments of the embodiments includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1094 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the embodiments described herein.

The drives and their associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and storage media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable storage media above refers to a hard disk drive HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of storage media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such storage media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods described herein.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . The systems and methods described herein can be implemented utilizing various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that can be coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a universal serial bus USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer can be connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless AP disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or can be connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device can be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It can be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer can be operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and BLUETOOTH wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi can allow connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which can use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 13 Mbps 802.13a or 54 Mbps 802.13b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The embodiments described herein can employ artificial intelligence AI to facilitate automating one or more features described herein. The embodiments e.g. in connection with automatically identifying acquired cell sites that provide a maximum value benefit after addition to an existing communication network can employ various AI based schemes for carrying out various embodiments thereof. Moreover the classifier can be employed to determine a ranking or priority of the each cell site of the acquired network. A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 . . . xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As can be readily appreciated one or more of the embodiments can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing mobile device behavior operator preferences historical information receiving extrinsic information . For example SVMs can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria which of the acquired cell sites can benefit a maximum number of subscribers and or which of the acquired cell sites will add minimum value to the existing communication network coverage etc.

As employed herein the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

As used herein terms such as data storage data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It can be appreciated that the memory components or computer readable storage media described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

Memory disclosed herein can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data storages databases of the embodiments are intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes mere examples of various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing these examples but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present embodiments are possible. Accordingly the embodiments disclosed and or claimed herein are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

