---

title: Protective case for coupling communication devices to a mobile device
abstract: A protective case sized and shaped to integrate a smartphone with a satellite communications device in a handheld form to conveniently allow communication both via the smartphone and the satellite communications device, with both devices arranged in the case so as to not detune the communications device is disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319087&OS=09319087&RS=09319087
owner: 
number: 09319087
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150619
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 890 084 filed on May 8 2013 now abandoned which is hereby incorporated by reference. This application also claims the benefit of provisional Patent Application No. 61 713 155 filed on Oct. 12 2012.

The present disclosure relates to smartphone protective cases that allow bundling of multiple communication devices in a handheld form that can operate without detuning or degradation of signal.

One object of this disclosure is to create a case that allows for porting two or more communication devices in the same small unit for increased convenience while securing the communication devices in such a manner that the presence of one communication device does not detune any other. In that manner the present protective case is typically made of durable hard material that can be secured by a lip or other means around a smartphone to house a satellite communication device or other communication device such that the devices are substantially immobile relative to one other and physically separates the housing of the smartphone from the satellite or other communication device. The satellite communication device for example is thereby placed at a location where the signal will not be blocked by normal usage. This application incorporates by reference as if fully disclosed herein Provisional Patent Application No. 61 713 155.

Smartphones and satellite communication devices exist but no product integrates two or more devices into a convenient case that ensures all devices work properly without any communication device having reduced communication ability while giving the user the cost saving benefit of integrating an already owned smartphone into a single case capable of communicating over multiple paths for example cellular and satellite paths.

One example is shown in the application Ser. No. 12 957 767 to Ritter. There an SMS satellite is shown attached device to the back of an iPhone. Ritter does not solve the problem of reduced degradation of signal Ritter also does not control the location of the user s hand so as to not block the transmissions satellite communication device s nor does it disclose the proper arrangement of the satellite communication device within the case to prevent detuning of the satellite communication device signal.

Hybrid devices that use both cellular communication and satellite communication paths exist such as the TERRESTAR GENUS. The TERRESTAR GENUS product does not offer the benefit of allowing the user to combine the functionality of the two communication systems when the user already owns a device capable of communicating over one communication path.

As shown in the present protective case for a communication device such as a smartphone is sized to detachably connect to the smartphone while maintaining the functionality of the smartphone and to serve as protection for at least one other device such as a satellite communication device. As shown in in one preferred embodiment the protective case generally has six primary faces. The six faces are the top face bottom face left face right face front face and back face . As shown in in one preferred embodiment the front face is substantially open to allow for the face of the smartphone to be accessible while the smartphone is placed within the protective case .

In another preferred embodiment the protective case is constructed of a hard durable material to prevent accidental scratching or wear and tear on the contained devices such as a satellite communication device and a smartphone. Hard plastics such as polyurethanes polyesters epoxy resins and phenolic resins may be used. Of course the invention is not limited by the particular type of material used in manufacture of the protective case . Any hard protective material that can be formed can suffice. One preferred embodiment may also have strategically placed grips on the protective case for positioning a user s hand at a location that does not cover the antenna of satellite communication device and does not prevent a user s hand from slipping relative to the protective case .

As shown in protective case can be secured to the smartphone for example by lip . Lip slightly extends from two or more faces such as top face bottom face left face or right face of protective case . The intersections of each of such face help secure a smartphone or other device by protective case . Any slight flexibility of the material from which the protective case is made allows for the smartphone or other device to be snapped in and out of protective case with minimal force but exerts sufficient restraining force to prevent the smartphone from falling from the protective case under its own weight or the magnitude of forces typically associated with normal operation of the smartphone. These constraints may guide the choice of construction materials. The length height and width of each of the faces and protective case can vary depending on the dimensions of the device with which the protective case is to be used. In one embodiment the smartphone is an iPhone 4. Of course other devices and smartphones can be used. Protective case should be sized according to the dimensions of the smartphone or other device used.

In other embodiments protective case is convertible such that use of the satellite communication device is possible and convenient without securing protective case to a smartphone. In such embodiments top face bottom face left face right face are hingedly or otherwise suitably connected to back face . When protective case is secured to a smartphone top face bottom face left face right face are substantially perpendicular to back face . When a smartphone of this embodiment is removed from the protective case top face bottom face left face right face rotate hingedly to lay flat against the satellite communication device on a plane substantially parallel with back face . In such embodiments each of the intersections between top face bottom face left face right face are arranged to allow such hinged rotation by for instance having a gap between the faces sufficient for rotation without any face blocking the rotation of an adjacent face or being constructed of flexible material.

As shown in back face has an upper tier and a lower tier . Upper tier is arranged to create a space between the smartphone and protective case for placement of a satellite communication or other device and a battery pack or other power source the satellite communication or other device. Back face has windows to allow for the functions from the back face of a smartphone or other device e.g. a camera and for controls of the satellite communication or other device. As shown in the windows of a preferred embodiment are arranged to allow functionality of for example a Spot II Satellite GPS Messenger with the communication module removed from its housing and for the camera of the iPhone 4. One or more of windows are covered by slides. The slides serve as protection from accidentally accessing the functions of the satellite communication device. The slides may be secured to protective case by a backing that connects to the case. The slides can move to open and close windows .

The specific placement of the satellite communication device with respect to the protective case allows for functionality of a smartphone and communications from a satellite communication device. The satellite communication device is secured to a protective case by for instance one or more small screws into threaded holes in the protective case . In other embodiments the satellite communication device could be attached to the protective case by other means including different fasteners or by a pre formed construction enclosing the satellite communication device by a protective case . Attachments could be formed of Velcro materials and can be of the same color and material as case or of different or contrasting colors or materials. Protective case may be secured to a satellite communication device or to other devices by magnetic means. There may be one or more magnets including for example a magnetic plate substantially the same dimensions as bottom face and securing magnetically to bottom face to substantially share one to all four edges therewith. Such an arrangement can be used to secure protective case containing a smartphone to a band around the arm of a user for example while the user jogs or exercises. As shown in the threaded holes are arranged such that the satellite communication device is attached to protective case and the smartphone is placed substantially within the protective case a small space remains above the satellite patch antenna sufficient to prevent the detuning of the patch antenna. In such embodiments using the IPHONE and the SPOT II SATELLITE GPS MESSENGER the spacing would be between about 1 mm and 3 mm in thickness. Further the threaded holes and upper tier are arranged such that the satellite communication device is secured at a location that is above the area typically held by one s hand when on a phone call. This placement helps the functionality of the satellite communication device because the antenna of the satellite communication device will not detune due to the presence of a user s hand covering the antenna and thus causing degradation. With this placement the patch antenna can be in a compact and convenient arrangement and function with minimal interference and without detuning. The compact design of protective case allows for the use of a space reducing antenna such as the patch antenna employed in the SPOT II SATELLITE GPS MESSENGER. Omnidirectional antennas as the name implies are designed to send and receive signals 360 degree around the antenna meaning that these antennas also known as helical antennas can receive signals from any direction. Semi directional antennas such as a patch antenna send and receive signals in a 180 degree pattern and are therefore more focused in directing a signal than omnidirectional antennas like the helical antenna. Larger antenna can be less practical. For example a helical antenna embedded into the face of the protective case may be ineffective because the signal could be blocked by both the smartphone and the user s head when the phone was held up to the user s ear.

Satellite communications devices such as the Spot Connect often locate a power source generally battery cells in a daughter board substantially parallel with and adjacent to a mother board. In one embodiment of protection case the battery cells are located within protective case adjacent to bottom face and on a plane similar to that of the mother board of satellite communications device. Power is transmitted from the battery cells to the satellite communications device via a wired or other connection. In such arrangements the thickness of the satellite communication device as integrated into one embodiment of case is substantially less than the thickness of the satellite communications device as it is commercially sold in its own housing. This allows one preferred embodiment to be thinner because the satellite communications device with its power source are arranged in a shape that closely mimics the shape of typical commercially available smartphones.

As shown in and top face bottom face left face and right face each may have holes to allow for the functionality of the smartphone. For example as shown in bottom face has a hole such that a smartphone can attach to an electrical power source the right face has a hole to allow access to a volume button and top face has a hole to allow access to an earphone jack or power button. Of course these holes can be differently placed depending on the configuration of the intended smartphone to be used.

The protective case can be modified to carry a variety of different communication devices while still allowing for the operability of a smartphone or other device. For example protective case can be modified for use with a satellite telephone. Further protective case can be used with two communication devices that allow for inter communication between the devices. For another example a satellite communication device can be the Spot Connect which enables connection by Bluetooth to a smartphone. Thus protective case is extremely versatile and allows for convenient methods to communicate certain messages from a smartphone which is traditionally not capable of communication through the satellite path via satellite. In each arrangement protective case should secure a communication device such that the patch antenna is located at a position that does not detune and that no contact occurs between the smartphone housing and the other chosen satellite communication device.

