---

title: Channel selection in a mobile communication device application framework
abstract: A user equipment (UE) comprising a processor, a memory, a radio transceiver, and a mobile application framework client stored in the memory. When executed by the processor the client receives a request for a communication service via an API, builds a service request message comprising an application identity and an identity of the requested service, transmits the service request message via the radio transceiver directed through a first communication channel defined by a first access point node (APN) specified by the client to a server, receives a first service response message comprising a second APN from the server, transmits the service request message via the radio transceiver directed through a second communication channel defined by the second APN to the server, and receives a second service response message from the second communication channel defined by the second APN from the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521504&OS=09521504&RS=09521504
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09521504
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151202
---
Mobile communication devices are becoming increasingly powerful and widely used. Many mobile devices are able to download and install mobile applications sometimes called user applications or third party applications after the device has been purchased and activated for mobile communication service. These mobile applications may provide some of their functionality based on communicating with application servers in the Internet. Sometimes mobile applications may provide a kind of bundled service that combines functionality from multiple third party providers.

In an embodiment a user equipment UE is disclosed. The UE comprises a processor a non transitory memory a radio transceiver and a mobile application framework client stored in the non transitory memory that. When executed by the processor the client receives a request for a communication service via an application programming interface API implemented by the client responsive to the request for communication service builds a service request message comprising an application identity and an identity of the requested service and transmits the service request message via the radio transceiver directed through a first communication channel defined by a first access point node APN specified by the client to a mobile application framework server. The client further receives a first service response message via the radio transceiver from the mobile application framework server wherein the first service response message comprises an identity of a second APN responsive to the first service response message transmits the service request message via the radio transceiver directed through a second communication channel defined by the second APN to the mobile application framework server and receives a second service response message via the radio transceiver from the second communication channel defined by the second APN from the mobile application framework server wherein the second service response comprises content supporting the communication service requested via the API implemented by the client.

In another embodiment a method of mobile communication is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a first service request message by a mobile application framework server from a mobile application framework client executing on a user equipment UE over a first communication channel defined by a first access point node APN where the first service request message identifies a service to be performed for a mobile application executing on the UE determining that the first service request message was received over the first communication channel defined by the first APN by the mobile application framework server and looking up a second APN based on a signature of the first service request message by the mobile application framework server. The method further comprises sending a first service response message comprising the second APN by the mobile application framework server to the mobile application framework client on the UE receiving a second service request message by the mobile application framework server from the mobile application framework client on the UE over a second communication channel defined by the second APN where the second service request message identifies the service to be performed for the mobile application framework client on the UE and responsive to receiving the second service request message sending content in fulfillment of the service identified in the second service request message by the mobile application framework server over the second communication channel defined by the second APN to the mobile application framework client on the UE.

In yet another embodiment another method of mobile communication is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a request for a communication service via an application programming interface API implemented by a mobile application framework client executing on a user equipment UE responsive to the request for communication service building a service request message comprising an application identity and an identity of the requested service by the client and transmitting the service request message via a radio transceiver of the UE directed through a first communication channel defined by a first access point node APN specified by the client to a mobile application framework server. The method further comprises receiving a first service response message by the client via the radio transceiver from the mobile application framework server wherein the first service response message comprises an identity of a second APN responsive to the first service response message transmitting the service request message by the client via the radio transceiver directed through a second communication channel defined by the second APN to the mobile application framework server and receiving a second response message by the client via the radio transceiver from the second communication channel defined by the second APN from the mobile application framework server wherein the second response comprises content supporting the communication service requested via the API implemented by the client.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The present disclosure teaches a mobile application framework MAF that provides context driven data communication channel selection for performing service requests for mobile applications installed on user equipments UEs . The UEs may be mobile communication devices such as mobile phones smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs media players wearable computers headset computers laptop computers notebook computers or tablet computers. The mobile applications may be user applications or third party applications that have been installed on the UE.

The mobile application framework provides a single application programming interface API for use by multiple different mobile applications to invoke methods to access services provided by the framework in a uniform way. The mobile application framework through this single API supports communication routing over multiple different communication channels to provide differentiated communication treatment on each different communication channel. For example the mobile applications may make a service request via the API to access content comprising information about a subscriber associated with the UE content associated with the subscriber associated with the UE content desired for performing operations of the mobile application and other content. The framework may provide security processing so that the subject access to content is done in a way to protect the confidentiality of the content. The mobile application framework may further promote ease of bundling a service composed of services provided by multiple independent companies or service developers.

The mobile application framework comprises a mobile application framework client that executes on UEs and a mobile application framework server that executes on a computer system. The mobile application framework server may be a computer application. Mobile applications invoke an API extended by the mobile application framework client and the client interworks with the mobile application framework server to provide the service associated with the invoked API method. In an embodiment the mobile application framework client may be embedded and or encapsulated in an operating system of the UE.

When a mobile application requests access to content via a service supported by the mobile application framework API the mobile application client builds a service request message identifying the type of content and or service requested. The service request message may comprise additional information that along with the identification of the content and or service requested constitutes a signature of the request. The additional information may comprise one or more of an application identity a UE identity a subscriber identity an identity of a wireless communication service provider associated with the UE and other information. In an embodiment the application identity may be provided in the form of an application authentication token and the UE identity may be provided in the form of a UE authentication token. For further details about authentication tokens and security operations of a mobile application framework see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 956 243 filed Dec. 1 2015 entitled Security Tiering in a Mobile Communication Device Application Framework by Jeff H. Bryan et al. which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The mobile application framework client sends the service request message via a wireless communication link into a communication network designating a specific data communication channel path over which the service request is to be fulfilled by identifying an access point node APN for the service request. The mobile application framework server receives the service request message and determines what APN the service request was handled by. The mobile application framework further uses the signature of the request i.e. one or more of the application identity the UE identity the subscriber identity the service provider identity etc. to determine what APN should be used to fulfill the service request.

In an embodiment a business logic manager application that is a part or component of the server performs this processing and maps the signature to an APN. The business logic manager application may be configured with a plurality of rules that the business logic manager application uses at least in part to map the signature to an APN. Alternatively the rules may be stored in a data store separate from the business logic manager application and the business logic manager application may access the data store to read the rules. The business logic manager supports selecting the communication channel path for fulfillment of the service request based on the context of the request based on the content and or service requested and the signature. It is contemplated that this context driven channel selection mechanism can provide a wide range of communication processing generally related to selecting different treatments that can be provided to the service requests. In some contexts this communication channel selection may be referred to as communication channel routing but note that this routing is not an activity that takes place at the network layer of a communication protocol stack but at an application layer at the layer of the mobile application framework.

The business logic manager application can associate the service request to an APN where content transmitted to the UE is not counted towards a usage total associated with a communication service subscription account e.g. non billed communication . Alternatively the business logic manager application may associate the service request to an APN where the content transmitted to the UE is counted towards the usage total e.g. billed communication . In an embodiment the business logic manager application may provide the service request with other treatments that map to different qualities of service for example a first APN association may result in the communication being served with a first quality of service a second APN association may result in the communication being served with a second quality of service and a third APN association may result in the communication being served with a third quality of service. Other treatments may be associated with different APNs by the business logic manager application. Again it is noted that APNs identify specific communication channels and that different APNs identify different communication channels.

After mapping the service request to an APN the mobile application framework server determines if the APN is different than the APN that the service request was received from. If the APN is not different the mobile application framework server may proceed to provide the requested service using the APN selected by the UE for example retrieving content from a content server maintained by a developer of the mobile application executing on the UE that requested the service and returning the content via the communication channel path associated with the APN. It is understood that the mobile application framework server may communicate with the content server over the same communication channel path associated with that APN.

If after the mapping the APN determined by mapping is different from the APN that the service request was received from the mobile application framework server sends a service response message to the mobile application framework client that comprises the different APN. The mobile application framework client reads the service response message and determines based on the presence of the different APN that it is expected to resend the original service request message via a different communication channel path associated with the different APN and resends the service request message to the mobile application framework server via that different APN. In an embodiment the service response message may further comprise a response code whose value signals to the client that it is to resend the service request message via the APN identified in the service response message. The service response message may further identify the previous service request message so the UE may readily determine the service request message that is to be resent. The mobile application framework server receives the resent service request recognizes that it has been sent via an APN that had been defined for the mobile application framework client and so does not perform the mapping operation again and completes the service request using the APN.

The mobile application framework can benefit mobile communications in a variety of ways. It can reduce the efforts of application developers to integrate with the UE and or the communication network by providing a consistent uniform API extended by the mobile application framework client. Additionally the mobile application framework can provide a mechanism to easily adapt treatment for different contexts different applications different UEs different subscribers different service requests without the necessity of integrating with the mobile applications and or with the mobile application framework clients. Service request treatment can be adapted simply by modifying the mapping provided by the business logic manager application of the mobile application framework server for example. The subscriber can benefit from the mobile application framework in that more mobile applications may be developed and be provided for the UE as a result of the reduced cycle time for developing mobile applications that rely on the mobile application framework to perform service requests.

Turning now to a system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a user equipment UE an enhanced node B eNB or cell tower a communication network and one or more mobile applications installed on the UE . The UE may be a mobile communication device such as a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a wearable computer a headset computer a laptop computer a tablet computer or a notebook computer. The network may comprise one or more public networks one or more private networks or a combination thereof. One or more of the mobile applications may be installed by an original equipment manufacturer OEM of the UE . One or more of the mobile applications may be installed after the UE has been delivered to a subscriber and activated. One or more of the mobile applications may be developed by third party application developers.

The UE further comprises a cellular transceiver which provides wireless communication links between the UE and the eNB . The cellular transceiver may communicate with the eNB according to one or more of a long term evolution LTE wireless protocol a code division multiple access CDMA wireless protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol or other wireless communication protocol. The UE comprises a processor and a memory . The memory may be a non transitory memory. The memory comprises a mobile application framework MAF client that provides a MAF application programming interface API . In an embodiment the MAF client is embedded or encapsulated in an operating system of the UE . In another application however the MAF client is not embedded in the operating system and is an application stored in a system partition of the memory or alternately in a carrier partition of the memory .

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of UEs and any number of eNBs . Likewise any number of mobile applications may be installed on the UE and different numbers of mobile applications and different specific mobile applications may be installed on different UEs .

The system further comprises a mobile application framework MAF server that executes on a server . It is understood that the MAF server is a computer program or application that executes on the server . The MAF client and the MAF server may be said to constitute a mobile application framework. It is understood that the mobile application framework comprises the MAF server and any number of MAF clients installed on UEs e.g. MAF clients installed on each of 50 000 UEs MAF clients installed on each of 500 000 UEs MAF clients installed on each of 5 000 000 UEs or any number of UEs . The server may be implemented as a computer system comprised of one or more computers. Computer systems are described further hereinafter.

When the mobile application requests a communication service to be rendered on its behalf by the mobile application framework it does so by invoking a method using the MAF API . The MAF client receives the method call via the MAF API and generates a service request message from the API method call. The service request message identifies a kind of service and any parameters related to the requested service such as a uniform resource locator URL an IP address or other designation of a service end point that may have been provided in the API method call or previously configured by the mobile application into the MAF client . The service request message may provide mobile application framework security related information. The service request message may provide an identity of the UE and or an identity of a subscriber associated with the UE . The service request message may provide an application state for example a game level attained. The MAF API may support requests from mobile applications for an add service request a delete service request a validate subscriber request a get subscriber information request a get UE information request as well as other service requests.

The MAF client then transmits the service request message via the cellular radio transceiver over a wireless communication link provided by the eNB over the network to the MAF server on the server . The MAF client transmits this service request message with a designation of an access point node APN that defines a communication channel over which the service request message is transported in the network . The MAF client may be configured to use a default APN for the service request message in the absence of any instructions to the contrary from the MAF server for example via an APN corresponding to a customary Internet communication path. In an embodiment the default APN may be stored in the memory .

When the MAF server receives the service request message from the MAF client it determines what APN the service request message was transported over i.e. what communication channel defined by or designated by the APN the service request message was transported over . The MAF server also parses the service request message to extract information from it such as what service is requested an identity of the mobile application requesting the service an identity of the UE an identity of a subscriber associated with the UE and an identity of a wireless communication service provider carrying a wireless communication service account for the UE . This information may be referred to as a signature of the service request message.

A business logic manager application of the MAF server maps the signature to what may be referred to as a mapped APN to distinguish it logically from the APN the MAF server determined that the service request was transported over i.e. the default APN . Each different APN identifies a different communication channel in the network . Each different APN and associated communication channel may provide a different treatment or processing of communication content that passes over the subject channel. In an embodiment the business logic manager application performs the mapping based on the signature and based on a set of business rules . The business rules may be configured into or built into the business logic manager application for example encapsulated in a code or logic of the business logic manager application . Alternatively the business logic manager application may read a file during initialization and store the business rules in process memory or heap memory allocated to the business logic manager application . Alternatively the business logic manager application may read the business rules on the fly or dynamically from a data store as needed for example on the event of performing a mapping. Various implementations of the business logic manager application access in the business rules may support greater or lesser adaptability of the business rules and greater or lesser run time efficiency of the business logic manager application . One skilled in the art in combination with the present disclosure will readily be able to choose a suitable implementation of accessing the business rules by the business logic manager application .

In some cases the business logic application may map the signature to a mapped APN that is identical to the default APN. In this case the MAF server processes the service request and returns a service response message to the MAF client and the MAF client returns a response to the application via the MAF API . For example the MAF server requests a copy of content from a data store identified by the service request message over the default APN receives the copy of the content over the default APN and returns the copy of the content encapsulated in a service response message over the default APN to the MAF client .

In other cases however the mapped APN is different from the default APN. In this case the MAF server returns a service response message to the MAF client comprising the mapped APN. In an embodiment the MAF server may return a service response message to the MAF client that comprises a response code designating a communication channel reroute and comprises the mapped APN. In other words the response code may signal to the UE that it is expected to resend a service request message directed through a communication channel defined by the APN in the service response message. In either case when the MAF client receives the service response message containing the mapped APN it retransmits the original service request message or a copy via the mapped APN to the MAF server . The MAF server then performs the indicated service request for example requesting and receiving a copy of content from the data store over the mapped APN and returns a service response to the MAF client over the mapped APN. While the discussion above described communication between the UE and the server passing over a cellular wireless link between the cellular transceiver and the eNB in an embodiment the UE may further comprise a short range radio transceiver not shown that is able to establish wireless links to an access point AP not shown using a Wi Fi short range wireless protocol using a Bluetooth short range wireless protocol or using a different short range wireless protocol and link from the AP to the network .

By routing service requests content requests content and service responses over the mapped APN a treatment that the service receives may be controlled. For example a default APN communication channel may be associated with tolling i.e. billing data traffic against a data usage count of a subscription wireless service account of the UE . This communication channel may be referred to in some contexts as a billing channel or a billed channel. A first mapped APN may be associated with not tolling i.e. not billing data traffic against the data usage count of subscription account the UE . The first mapped APN may define a second communication channel that may be referred to as a non billing channel or a non billed channel. A second mapped APN may be associated with a first premium quality of service QoS for transporting content from the data store to the MAF server and from the MAF server to the MAF client . A third mapped APN may be associated with a second higher premium QoS for transporting content to the MAF client from the data store . In an embodiment the MAF server may request content from the data store be routed from the data store to the UE over either the default APN or a mapped APN leaving the MAF server out of the transport path. Yet further treatments linked to different mapped APNs are contemplated by the present disclosure.

The data store may be maintained by an original equipment manufacturer OEM may be a wireless service provider subscriber data store a user profile data store. In an embodiment the data store may be mediated by a mobile application developer back office server. In an embodiment back office servers not shown may be coupled to the network and the mobile applications may request services from the back office servers using the mobile application framework.

In some cases the mobile application may have been developed by a third party that negotiates with a wireless service provider that operates the mobile application framework to allow content to transit the network without tolling the subscriber s data usage i.e. unbilled traffic . The business application manager can identify the mobile application by the service request message signature and map it to the appropriate non billed mapped APN. If at a later time the wireless service provider and the third party sever their business arrangement it is a simple matter to resume tolling of the content requested by the mobile application by altering the definition of signature to mapped APN mapping in the business logic manager application and or in a configuration file on the server . Some service requests of a mobile application may map to a non billed mapped APN while other service requests of the same mobile application may map to a billed mapped APN. 

Turning now to an alternate abstraction of the system is described. The system has abstracted away some of the details of for example the wireless communication link via the eNB to the network is replaced with a communication link to the network . Additionally the communication within the network is illustrated as taking place at least for purposes of mobile application framework service communications over a plurality of different communication channels a first communication channel associated with a first APN a second communication channel associated with a second APN and a third communication channel associated with a third APN. It is understood that the network may support any number of communication channels associated with or defined by corresponding APNs. Each different communication channel can provide different treatments to the communication content that is transported over the channel.

Turning now to a method is described. At block receive a first service request message by a mobile application framework server from a mobile application framework client executing on a user equipment UE over a first communication channel defined by a first access point node APN where the first service request message identifies a service to be performed for a mobile application executing on the UE. For example the MAF server receives the first service request message from the UE . At block determine that the first service request message was received over the first communication channel defined by the first APN by the mobile application framework server. The first APN may be the default APN. The first communication channel may be the first communication channel .

At block look up a second APN based on a signature of the first service request message by the mobile application framework server. For example the business logic manager application looks up the mapping based on the signature of the first service request message and based on the set of business rules . The signature may comprise one or more of what service is requested an identity of the mobile application requesting the service an identity of the UE an identity of a subscriber associated with the UE and an identity of a wireless communication service provider carrying a wireless communication service account for the UE . At block send a first service response message comprising the second APN by the mobile application framework server to the mobile application framework client on the UE. The first service response message may further comprise a response code whose value signals to the UE to resent the service request using the second APN. The first service response message may further comprise an identification of the first service request message or a pair of the requested service and the application identity.

At block receive a second service request message by the mobile application framework server from the mobile application framework client on the UE over a second communication channel defined by the second APN where the second service request message identifies the service to be performed for the mobile application framework client on the UE. At block responsive to receiving the second service request message send content in fulfillment of the service identified in the second service request message by the mobile application framework server over the second communication channel defined by the second APN to the mobile application framework client on the UE.

Turning now to a method is described. At block receive a request for a communication service via an application programming interface API implemented by a mobile application framework client executing on a user equipment UE . For example receive a method invocation via the MAF API from a mobile application identifying a communication service requested. At block responsive to the request for communication service build a service request message comprising an application identity and an identity of the requested service by the client. The service request message in an embodiment may comprise one or more of an identity of the UE an identity of a subscriber associated with the UE and a wireless communication service provider.

At block transmit the service request message via a radio transceiver of the UE directed through a first communication channel defined by a first access point node APN specified by the client to a mobile application framework server. The UE may transmit the service request message via the cellular radio transceiver to the eNB and then to the network or via a short range radio transceiver not shown to an access point and then to the network . At block receive a first service response message by the client via the radio transceiver from the mobile application framework server wherein the first service response message comprises an identity of a second APN. The first service response message may further comprise a response code as described above. At block responsive to the first service response message transmit the service request message by the client via the radio transceiver directed through a second communication channel defined by the second APN to the mobile application framework server. At block receive a second response message by the client via the radio transceiver from the second communication channel defined by the second APN from the mobile application framework server wherein the second response comprises content supporting the communication service requested via the API implemented by the client.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the UE in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the UE to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the UE to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations. In an embodiment the UE may comprise a near field communication NFC transceiver. The NFC transceiver may be used to complete payment transactions with point of sale terminals or other communications exchanges. In an embodiment the UE may comprise a radio frequency identify RFID reader and or writer device.

The switches may couple to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to provide input to the UE . Alternatively one or more of the switches may be coupled to a motherboard of the UE and or to components of the UE via a different path e.g. not via the input output interface for example coupled to a power control circuit power button of the UE . The touch screen display is another input mechanism which further displays text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen display . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the UE to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

Additionally after the system is turned on or booted the CPU may execute a computer program or application. For example the CPU may execute software or firmware stored in the ROM or stored in the RAM . In some cases on boot and or when the application is initiated the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from the secondary storage to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU itself and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. In some cases the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from memory accessed via the network connectivity devices or via the I O devices to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. During execution an application may load instructions into the CPU for example load some of the instructions of the application into a cache of the CPU . In some contexts an application that is executed may be said to configure the CPU to do something e.g. to configure the CPU to perform the function or functions promoted by the subject application. When the CPU is configured in this way by the application the CPU becomes a specific purpose computer or a specific purpose machine.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards that promote radio communications using protocols such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX near field communications NFC radio frequency identity RFID and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage flash drive ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

