---

title: Techniques and systems for on-demand customized mobile data services
abstract: Techniques for generating and providing on-demand customized mobile data services are described. A technique may include receiving application usage data at a data package service; analyzing the application usage data to obtain analyzed data; designing one or more data service packages according to the analyzed data, each data service package to define a set of parameters to manage access to a cellular data network; presenting one or more data service packages to a client device; receiving a selection of a data service package from the client device; and uploading a policy associated with the selected data service package to a data access server. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09603059&OS=09603059&RS=09603059
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09603059
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150626
---
This application is related to co owned and concurrently filed application Ser. No. 14 752 430 entitled Techniques and Systems for Enforcement of On Demand Customized Mobile Data Services the content of which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

Users of mobile devices may need to send and receive data over a network in order to use the applications apps on the devices. Many users may not have consistent or persistent connections to a network such as a Wi Fi network or a data network provided by a cellular system. These users may purchase temporary connectivity to data services for example for a limited amount of data transfer or a limited amount of time of data transfer. Users may not understand how much network data their apps use or which apps are using network data. Users may have few choices among temporary data service plans and those choices may not align with the data needs of the user. The purchasing process for these plans may be cumbersome or inconvenient.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some novel embodiments described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments are generally directed to techniques and systems for on demand customized mobile data services. Some embodiments are particularly directed to techniques for using data about app and network usage on mobile devices to generate customized data service packages. The data service packages can be offered for sale when needed at the mobile device. In one embodiment for example a method may comprise receiving application usage data at a data package service analyzing the application usage data to obtain analyzed data designing one or more data service packages according to the analyzed data each data service package to define a set of parameters to manage access to a cellular data network presenting one or more data service packages to a client device receiving a selection of a data service package from the client device and uploading a policy associated with the selected data service package to a data access server. In another embodiment a method may comprise receiving a network data packet from a client device determining an originating application and a data end point from the network data packet determining whether a policy in a policy store allows the client device to access a cellular data network and forwarding the network data packet to the data end point on the cellular data network when a policy does allow the access. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be practiced and all aspects and equivalents thereof are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various embodiments are directed to providing a customized set of data service packages to users who wish to transmit and receive network data with their mobile devices. These users may not have a consistent or persistent connection to a data service for example through a cellular service operator. The embodiments are further directed to enforcing access to data services according to the data service packages that a user purchases.

For mobile device users without a persistent data service contract with a cellular service provider obtaining access to data service can be challenging. For example some cellular service operators sell their data services through their own Point of Sales systems and Internet pages which may require the user to purchase data services by using a device other than their mobile device or to purchase by simple message service SMS calling the cellular service operator or using USSD menus from their mobile devices.

Some operators may sell data services according to amounts of data allowed to be transferred or speed of data transfer without taking into account how an individual user actually uses data on their device. Unlimited data plans can be cost prohibitive for some users. Further users may not be aware of or understand how their mobile devices use data services or which apps use data services.

Operator provided data service plans may in some cases require changes to the operator network which may be complicated become expensive and take a lot of time. A cellular service operator may be able to provide data plans for apps however this capability may require dedicated systems on the operator side and hard coding the prices to the operator. The operator also typically lacks visibility into how its users and potential users interact with their devices and use data. While the operator may see what data end points are being accessed the operator may not know which app originated the data access. Any app related data plans may therefore be limited in scope and or inflexible to frequently changing data needs.

Accordingly embodiments may provide a system that receives data about how users interact with their mobile devices and in particular how the mobile devices and the apps executing on them use network data. The system of the embodiments may use that data to generate data service packages that take into account how an individual user accesses data with their mobile device. The data service packages can be selected and presented to the user on an as needed basis tailored to the user s needs. The system of the embodiments may further enable and enforce a mobile device s access to data services through the use of policies associated with the data service packages. The embodiments may operate without having to change the operator s network or the mobile devices.

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the claimed subject matter.

It is worthy to note that a and b and c and similar designators as used herein are intended to be variables representing any positive integer. Thus for example if an implementation sets a value for a 5 then a complete set of components illustrated as components through may include components and . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in a mobile device may access various data end points via the Internet . The mobile device may connect to the Internet and to the data end points by performing various operations using network data accessed over a network. The mobile device may access a cellular system using cellular signals . The cellular system may be a cellular network that provides access to both a voice telephone service and a cellular data network. The cellular system may be provided by a cellular service operator from which the user of the mobile device has purchased a data service package. A data service package may allow the mobile device to transmit and receive data using the cellular system within some defined parameters. In some cases the mobile device may be able to transmit and receive data using the cellular system without having a purchased data service package for example when the cellular service operator designates certain data transfers to be free of charge e.g. zero rated. The mobile device may use the cellular system to access the public Internet and or the data end points .

The mobile device may access one or more Wi Fi access points using Wi Fi signals . Wi Fi access points may be provided by a plurality of different operators. Some of the Wi Fi access points may be personal in nature such as a home Wi Fi network operated by the user of mobile device based on a domestic Internet connection. Some of the Wi Fi access points may be free of charge or provided as a complimentary portion of a service such as free Wi Fi service in coffee shops hotels and other public accommodations. The mobile device may use Wi Fi access points to access the public Internet .

The mobile device may communicate with other devices using wireless transmissions to exchange network traffic. Exchanging network traffic may comprise transmitting and receiving network traffic via a network interface controller NIC . A NIC comprises a hardware component connecting a computer device such as mobile device to a computer network. The NIC may be associated with a software network interface empowering software applications to access and use the NIC. Network traffic may be received over the computer network as signals transmitted over data links. The network traffic may be received by capturing these signals and interpreting them. The NIC may receive network traffic over the computer network and transfer the network traffic to memory storage accessible to software applications using a network interface application programming interface API .

The mobile device may have one or more software applications referred to herein as apps that provide various functions when executed on the mobile device . Apps may provide for example and without limitation games communications navigation Internet browsing social networking video players audio players references and so forth. Some apps may access one or more data end points as part of their operations. The mobile device is described in further detail below.

A data end point may include any network destination or source of data. A data end point may include for example and without limitation an Internet protocol IP address a website uniform resource locator URL a port number a server a database a host another mobile device another computing device and so forth.

The mobile data access system may include a data package service . The data package service may collect data from a plurality of mobile devices about how apps and or network data are used on the mobile devices. The data may include for example and without limitation what apps are executed on a mobile device what sequences of apps are executed how much data an app uses times of day that an app is used frequency and or duration of an app s use data end points accessed by an app and so forth.

The data package service may use the data to generate a plurality of data service packages. A data service package may provide when purchased by a user access to a cellular data network subject to various parameters. For example the data service package may limit access to the cellular data network to a time period e.g. 24 hours and or to a data amount e.g. 1 GB of data. A data service package may apply to a specific app on a mobile device to a set of apps to a type of data e.g. video or audio and so forth.

The data package service may select data service packages to present to a mobile device when an app on the mobile device is attempting to access a data end point in real time. When a data service package is selected by the user the data package service may coordinate payment for the data service package and may transmit a policy to a data access server that includes the parameters of the data service package for access to the cellular data network. The data package service is discussed in further detail below.

The mobile data access system may include a data access server . The data access server may enforce and control access to a cellular data network by a mobile device. The data access server may receive all network packets from a mobile device that are directed to the cellular system . The data access server may determine whether a policy exists for the mobile device and or the app that originated the network packet. When a policy exists the data access server may send the network packet to its data end point via the cellular system . When no policy exists the data access server may prompt the data package service to select data service packages to offer for sale to the user of the mobile device . The data access server is described in further detail below.

The mobile data access system may include an authorization server or other suitable component s that allows users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by mobile data access system or shared with other systems e.g. third party systems for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. A privacy setting of a user may determine what information associated with the user may be logged how information associated with the user may be logged when information associated with the user may be logged who may log information associated with the user whom information associated with the user may be shared with and for what purposes information associated with the user may be logged or shared. Authorization servers or other authorization components may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of mobile data access system and other elements of a social networking system through blocking data hashing anonymization or other suitable techniques as appropriate.

The mobile device may have installed upon it one or more software applications or apps such as app app and app . An app may include stand alone applications client applications that communicate with a server to provide a service thin clients that provide an interface to a server provided function and so forth. Some of apps may require occasional constant or near constant access to one or more data end points .

The mobile device may also have a data access app installed thereon. The data access app may be installed on the mobile device prior to purchase by a user or may be downloaded and installed after the mobile device is purchased by the user. The data access app may operate on the mobile device to enable some of the operations and functionality of the mobile data access system .

In some embodiments the data access app may register a virtual private network VPN profile with an operating system executing on the mobile device . An actual VPN need not be established. By registering a VPN profile the data access app may receive all network data packets from any app sending a network data packet prior to the network data packet being transmitted on a network. This may allow the data access app to capture data about how the apps used on the mobile device use network data.

The data access app may include one or more functional components that provide the operations described herein. For example the data access app may include a traffic mapper component to identify for a network access event an app originating the network access event. A network access event may include any attempt by the mobile device to send data over a wireless network. For example whenever the data access app receives a network data packet from another app the data network packet may be part of a network access event.

Identifying the app originating the network access event may include identifying the app that created a network data packet. In some cases the app with which the user is interacting is not the app that created the network data packet. For example the user may be using a social networking app App1 and viewing a video within the social networking app. The video may be presented by another app App2 through the social networking app. The traffic mapper component may identify the app that the user is interacting with App 1 as the originating app in some embodiments even if App2 actually generated the network access event. When the user needs to decide on a network data access plan the user may not realize that such network access events are generated by an app other than the one they are using. It may be more intuitive for the user to purchase a data plan that allows access by App1. The traffic mapper component may also or alternatively identify a data end point of the network access event.

The traffic mapper component may measure an amount of network traffic requested or used by an app. The traffic mapper component may for example record the size of network data packets sent and received by an app . In addition the traffic mapper component may record data about which apps originate network access events and or amounts of network traffic to a specific data end point process or socket. The traffic mapper component may send the data it records to a data package service periodically e.g. every minute every hour every day and so forth.

The data access app may include a packet tagger component . The packet tagger component may attach an identifier to a network data packet. The identifier may indicate an originating app of the data packet as determined by the traffic mapper component . The identifier may be appended or otherwise added to a network data packet for example as a tag or a label. The identifier may include a set of one or more bits that uniquely identify the originating app to a data access server .

The data access app may include an offer component . The offer component may receive one or more data service packages from a data package service in response to a network access event. The offer component may present offers for the one or more data service packages in a user interface on the mobile device . The offer component may receive a control directive selecting one of the offers and may inform the data package service of the selected offer. The user interface may be presented while the originating app is executing on the foreground on the mobile device and or when the originating app is opened on the apparatus. The user interface may present an option that blocks the network access event if there are no offers available.

The data access app may include a packet router component . The packet router component may decide where to send a network data packet received from an app at the data access app . When the mobile device is connected to a Wi Fi network the packet router component may send a data packet to a data end point via the Wi Fi network. When the mobile device is not connected to a Wi Fi network the packet router component may send the network data packet to the data access server using a cellular data network.

The data access app may include an app monitor component . The app monitor component may collect data about app usage on the mobile device . For example and without limitation the app monitor component may collect data on what apps are used on the mobile device a duration of use of apps a time of day of use of apps a sequence of apps used or a frequency of use of an app. The app monitor component may send the collected data to a data package service at some specified period or when a specified amount of data is collected.

The operations and functions of the data access app may be provided by more fewer or other components. In some embodiments two or more of the described components may be combined into a single component. The embodiments are not limited to these examples.

The data package service may include one or more functional components. For example the data package service may include a client data analyzer component . The client data analyzer component may receive application usage data and analyze the application usage data to obtain analyzed data . The application usage data received from mobile devices may include data about app use on one or more client devices e.g. mobile devices for example about which apps are used which apps are used together or in sequence how long an app is used at what time of day an app is used what apps are used by other apps and so forth. The application usage data may include for example an application identifier parameter a network usage parameter a data end point parameter an application sequence parameter a frequency parameter or a duration parameter. An application identifier parameter may identify an application used on a mobile device. A network usage parameter may indicate an amount of network data consumption of an application in use on a mobile device. A data end point parameter may identify data end points accessed by an application. An application sequence parameter may identify a sequence of applications used on a mobile device. A frequency parameter may indicate a frequency of use of an application on a mobile device. A duration parameter may indicate a duration of use of an application on a mobile device. The data received may also include network usage data for a mobile device such as how much network data is sent and received which apps send and receive network data how much network data is used by an app at what times of day network data is sent and received what types of data are sent in network data and so forth. The data may be received from a data access app operating on the respective mobile devices.

The client data analyzer component may aggregate the data received from multiple mobile devices. The client data analyzer component may perform various statistical operations on the aggregated data. For example and without limitation the client data analyzer component may determine average values mean values highest values lowest values frequencies periods probabilities and other values. The client data analyzer component may analyze the data received from the mobile devices to determine in the aggregate what apps are used by the largest number of mobile devices which apps are used with other apps sequences of apps used the data consumption of apps whether an app is used continuously or sporadically length of an app use time of day used days of the week used whether an app operates in the background or foreground amounts and or types of data transferred rates of data transfer and so forth. The client data analyzer component may also generate user segments by identifying groups of users who have some aspect of app use in common.

The data package service may include an operator interface component . The operator interface component may communicate with the operator of the cellular system . For example the operator interface component may receive operator data. Operator data may include for example and without limitation information about available bandwidth at times of day target revenues operator basic data rates lowest viable data rates and targeted data rates. The operator interface component may act as the integration point with the operator network using a one time set up process that does not require any modifications to the operator network and allows the data package service to sell data service packages to users that allow the users to access the data services of the operator network.

The data package service may include a package generator component . The package generator component may receive the analyzed data and design one or more data service packages according to the analyzed data. The package generator component may also receive data received from the operator and may design one or more data service packages according to the operator data.

The package generator component may create data service packages on a substantially continuous basis e.g. every minute every 30 seconds every two minutes or at any other regular or irregular frequency. The package generator component may also analyze historical data about purchased and unpurchased data service packages in determining what parameters to include in a data service package .

The package generator component may create data service packages for many different purposes and scenarios. Data service packages may be generated for example for a specific app. For a given specific app various data service packages may be created according to how much data the app typically transfers a length of time that the app is typically in use a time of day or day of the week that the app is typically used and so forth. Each data service package may have a different price. Data service packages may be created for groups of apps that are often used together for groups of apps that users of a user segment typically use or for an app that provides services across multiple networks IP addresses and or providers.

Some data service packages may be generated according to the operator data. For example discounted data service packages may be created that allow access during a time of day where the operator typically has lower network traffic. The price of data service packages may be set in an attempt to maximize revenue for the operator to maximize a number of purchases to maximize user retention and or to maximize user lifetime value.

Some data service packages may be specific to a location of the mobile device at the time of sale or use. Some data service packages may be designed to allow AB testing of the data service package where two price points of the same offer are provided and sales and use data may be analyzed after a test period.

In addition to generating data service packages based on aggregated data from multiple users some data service packages may be generated for a particular user according to the data specific to that user.

The package generator component may analyze existing data service packages according to purchase and use data and may modify the existing data service packages. For example the package generator component may determine the data service packages with most use and most revenue and the least use and least revenue. Those with the least use or revenue for example may have their price changed or may be eliminated altogether. The package generator component may compare the data service packages having the least revenue to those having the most revenue. The package generator component may compare the data service packages having the least revenue to the data service packages having similar price or similar duration but with higher revenue. These and other comparisons or analyses may prompt changes to data service packages to enhance number of purchases and or revenue for example.

The data package service may include an offer interface component . The offer interface component may receive a request for a data service package for a mobile device. The request may be transmitted from the data access server for example when a mobile device attempts to send data on the cellular data network without an active data service package for the type of access. In some embodiments the request may also include the current context of the mobile device . The context may include for example what app was in the foreground when the network access event occurred or what app originated the network access event.

In some embodiments the offer interface component may access the analyzed data for the particular mobile device and may select one or more data service packages according to the analyzed data and the context when provided. For example the analyzed data may indicate that an app App A is used the most on the mobile device or uses the most data or is generally used for 15 minutes every evening around 6 p.m. or is usually used before another app. The offer interface component may accordingly select one or more data service packages that would permit the type of access being attempted. In some embodiments the offer interface component may also consider historical data service packages selected by the user including what data service packages were previously purchased how much money the user has in a payment account or a maximum payment that the user has made for a data service package .

In some embodiments the offer interface component may determine whether any potentially relevant data service packages are associated with a discount a marketing campaign or are sponsored for promotion for example by a particular app developer. Such data service packages may be included in the selection for the user.

The offer interface component may transmit the selected one or more data service packages to the mobile device for example via the data access server . The offer interface component may receive a selection of one of the one or more data service packages from the mobile device again via the data access server .

The offer interface component may coordinate payment for a selected data service package . Users who have a data access app installed on their mobile device may register with the data package service and create an account which may be stored in account data . Part of the registration process may include providing one or more forms of electronic payment such as credit card numbers payment service account numbers an account number at the cellular service operator or bank account numbers. When a user selects a data service package for purchase the offer interface component may perform the transaction of receiving payment from the user according to the user s account information and transferring some or all of the payment to the cellular service operator.

The offer interface component may also generate a policy associated with the client selection. A policy may include the parameters of the purchased data service package in a form that can be used by the data access server to determine whether a network access event is permitted by a mobile device. A policy may include for example an identifier of an app that is allowed data access an amount of data that may be transferred a duration of time during which data may be transferred a time of day at which data may be transferred and so forth. A policy may be in the form of a data structure having fields that include the parameters. A policy may be a list a rule a database entry or any other form that the data access server can understand.

The data access server may include a tag decoder component . The tag decoder component may receive a network data packet from a client device e.g. a mobile device and may determine an originating app and a data end point from the network data packet. For example the tag decoder component may be able to read parse decode or otherwise understand an identifier e.g. a tag added to the network data packet by the data access app on the mobile device . The tag decoder component may determine the data end point from an address in the network data packet.

The data access server may include a policy enforcer component . The policy enforcer component may determine whether there is a policy in a policy store that allows the client device to access a cellular data network. For example the policy enforcer component may search the policy store for one or more policies associated with the mobile device that sent the network data packet and then search any such policies for a policy that allows data access by the originating app allows access at the current time of day allows access to the data end point has a sufficient amount of unused time to permit the data access for the network data packet and or has a sufficient amount of unused data access to permit the data access for the network data packet.

The data access server may include an offer coordinator component . The policy enforcer component may prompt the offer coordinator component to request a data service package from the data package service when there is no policy that allows access by the mobile device . The offer coordinator component may receive one or more data service packages in the form of offers from the data package service and may forward the one or more offers to the mobile device .

The offer coordinator component may then receive a selection of an offer from the mobile device and may forward the selection to the data package service . Once the data package service has completed a payment transaction the offer coordinator component may receive a policy associated with the selection from the data package service . The policy may define parameters for when the mobile device can access a cellular data network. The offer coordinator component may store a received policy in the policy store .

In some embodiments the policy enforcer component may discard the network data packet when there is no policy that allows access by the mobile device . The policy enforcer component may in some embodiments discard a policy once its parameters are no longer valid e.g. when a data amount limit of the policy is reached and or when a time period of the policy has expired.

The data access server may include a network component . The network component may forward the network data packet to the data end point via the cellular data network when a policy is found or received that does allow the access. In various embodiments the communication between the network component and the cellular data network is rate adjusted e.g. zero rated. For example the network component may send and receive data via the cellular data network without additional monetary charges.

The data package service and the data access server may be physically and or logically separate from each other. In some embodiments the data package service and the data access server may be logically combined e.g. available at the same network address or may be physically on the same device. In some embodiments either the data package service or the data access server may be a component of the cellular data network and may be controlled and operated by the operator of the cellular system . Alternatively either the data package service or the data access server may be controlled and operated by a third party to the cellular system operator and may interact with the cellular system by mutual agreement.

In message flow time flows from the top of the diagram toward the bottom. Message flow may represent messages communicated among the illustrated components when an app generates a network access event e.g. tries to access a data network. In the illustrated example the mobile device does not have a connection to a Wi Fi network.

The message flow begins when the app generates a network access event in message . A network access event may include for example one or more network data packets to be sent to a data end point . The network access event may be for example and without limitation a request to load a web page a request to download or stream a video or to send or receive electronic mail. The data access app automatically receives the network access event as message .

The message flow continues when the data access app determines the originating app for the message in message . For example the data access app may determine which app is in the foreground. The data access app may also use information such as a target IP address for the network access event a process identifier of the network access event an app identifier a packet definition or other methods of determining which app caused the network access event.

The message flow continues when the data access app collects data about the originating app in message . For example the data access app may record that the identified originating app generated a network access event at a specific date and time. The collected information may be added to a data repository that also contains information collected about other apps that generated network access events.

The message flow continues when the data access app collects data about the network access event in message . For example the data access app may record the size of the packet s that make up the network access event an destination data end point time of day and so forth. In some embodiments the collected data in message may be stored separately from the collected data in message . Alternatively the data may be stored together.

The message flow continues when the data access app attaches an identifier to the network data packet s of the network access event in message . For example the data access app may append a short relative to the size of the network data packet tag label or color to the front or the back of a network data packet that uniquely identifies the originating app to the data access server .

The message flow continues when the data access app sends the tagged data packet s of the network access event and a context to the data access server in message . The context may include for example what app was in the foreground when the network access event occurred what app was previously in the foreground a location of the mobile device an identifier of the mobile device a user identifier and or other information that may be of use in selecting a data service package for the app .

The message flow continues when the data access app sends the collected data about the app and about network usage to the data access server in message . The message can be sent at any time and may be sent more than once when more data is collected by the data access app .

The message flow continues when the data access server sends the collected data to the data package service in message . The message may also be sent more than once when more data is received from the data access app .

In message flow time flows from the top of the diagram toward the bottom. Message flow may represent messages communicated among the illustrated components when an app on the mobile device attempts to access a data network and the user of the mobile device has already purchased a data service package for that use.

The message flow begins when the mobile device sends the network data packet s and context to the data access sever in message . The message may be the same as the message from the message flow .

The message flow continues when the data access sever reads the tag s on the network data packet s in message . The data access sever may use the tag s to identify which app on the mobile device was the app that originated the network data packet s . In some embodiments the data access server may then remove the tag s from the network data packets. Generally the data access server may also read a data end point of the network data packets but does not read the load of the network data packets.

The message flow continues when the data access server searches its policy store for a policy that allows access to the cellular data network for the app and the mobile device in message . The data access server may search for policies specific to the mobile device and then within the policies found may search for a policy having parameters that allows access to the cellular data network for the mobile device generally or by the app specifically. In the illustrated example assume that the data access server finds a policy that allows the mobile device to use the cellular data network.

The message flow continues when the data access server sends the network data packet s received in message to the data end point in message . The message may be sent using the cellular system without any further charges to the user.

In message flow time flows from the top of the diagram toward the bottom. Message flow may represent messages communicated among the illustrated components when an app on the mobile device attempts to access a data network and the user of the mobile device has not purchased a data service package for that access.

The message flow begins similarly to the message flow that is the messages and are the same as messages and respectively.

The message flow differs from the message flow when in the message the data access server determines that there is no policy that allows the mobile device to access the cellular data network for the network data packet s in the message .

The message flow continues when the data access server requests data service packages from the data package service in message . The message may include the context received in the message .

The message flow continues when the data package service selects one or more data service packages in message . The data package service may consider the context of the mobile device when selecting data service packages and may for example select data service packages that allow the originating app or the app currently in the foreground if different from the originating app to access a data network. The data package service may select data service packages that allow access at the time of day of the message or that allow an expected amount of data traffic. If the cellular service network is congested the data package service may select one or more data service packages that offer discounts to shift the network traffic to a less congested time of day. The embodiments are not limited to these examples.

The message flow continues when the data package service returns the selected data service packages to the data access server in message . In an embodiment the message may include descriptive information for each selected data service package such as the parameters of access and cost and may include an identifier for each different data service package.

The message flow continues when the data access server forwards the selected data service packages of message to the mobile device in message .

The message flow continues when the mobile device presents the selected data service packages as offers in message . The offers correspond to the selected data service packages. The data access app on the mobile device may use the descriptive information to present a UI on a display of the mobile device . The mobile device may receive a control directive from the user that selects one of the offers not shown .

The message flow continues when the mobile device sends the selected offer to the data access server in message . The message may include the identifier of the data service package that corresponds to the selected offer.

The message flow continues when the data access server forwards the selection to the data package service in message .

The message flow continues when the data package service obtains payment for the selected data service package and generates a policy corresponding to the selected data service package in message . The data package service may transfer funds from a user account to the cellular service operator. Once the payment is completed the data package service may generate a policy that corresponds to the paid for data service package. The policy may define the parameters under which the mobile device is allowed to access the cellular data network.

The message flow continues when the data package service sends the policy to the data access server in message . The data access server may store the policy.

The message flow continues when the data access server sends the network data packet s received in the message to the data end point in message . The message may be sent using the cellular system without any further charges to the user.

In some embodiments the UI may be presented when the App ABC attempts to send a network data packet. The UI may be presented when the App ABC is first opened and or when the App ABC is brought to the foreground.

The UI may include a dialog that shows one or more offers for data service packages. As shown the dialog includes an offer an offer an offer and an offer . More or fewer offers may be presented. By way of example the offer is for a data service package that allows unlimited data access for one app App ABC for a limited time period 24 hours and costs 7.

The offer is for a data service package that allows unlimited data access for two apps App ABC and App DEF for a limited time period and costs 13. This type of data service package may be useful for example for apps that are frequently used together or for the most used apps on the mobile device .

The offer is for a data service package that allows a limited amount of data traffic for one app for an unlimited amount of time and costs 15. The offer is for a data service package that allows unlimited data access for all apps for a limited amount of time and costs 9.

Other offers may be provided for data service packages that for example have lower cost for data access if the access occurs at times when there is less traffic on the cellular service network. The examples are not limited to these examples.

The user of the mobile device may review and select an offer that aligns with the user s needs and budget. In the illustrated example the user indicates with a control directive that they would like to select the offer . The user may then select the buy button to initiate the transaction or the cancel button to prevent a purchase.

Once the buy button is selected the selected offer is communicated to the data package service which coordinates payment for the data service package and provides an associated policy to the data access server . The data access server may then permit in the illustrated example use of the data services of the cellular system for App ABC until two GB of data have been transferred.

Included herein is a set of flow charts representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed architecture. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein for example in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow may collect application usage data about other apps used on the mobile device in block . For example the data access app may intercept all traffic intended for a network and may record what app originated the traffic what apps were used previously and when how much data traffic is generated times of day and days of the week when data traffic is requested and any other information related to app and network usage on the mobile device . In some embodiments only data about apps that use a network is collected. In other embodiments data about apps that do not use a network may also be collected.

The logic flow may transmit the collected data to a data package service in block . For example the data access app may transmit the collected data to the data package service via the data access server at regular intervals at irregular intervals when requested by the data access server or the data package service when new data is collected or at any other time or frequency.

The logic flow may receive one or more data service packages from the data package service in block . For example the data access app may receive descriptive information about data service packages from the data access server after attempting to access the cellular data network without a paid for data service package.

The logic flow may present the one or more data service packages from the data packager service in a user interface on the mobile device in block . For example the data access app may present a user interface UI showing offers that describe the various data service packages and their costs. The UI may be presented within or on top of a UI of the foreground app.

The logic flow may receive a control directive selecting one of the data service packages and may transmit the selection to the data package service in block . For example the data access app may detect a user selection such as a touch or a click on one of the offers in the presented UI. The identifier of the selected offer may be transmitted back to the data package service via the data access server .

The logic flow may transmit a network data packet to a data end point according to the selected data service package in block . For example assuming that payment for the selected data service package is successful the data access app may transmit one or more network access events related to the data service package to the data end points via the data access server without additional cost to the user.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow may identify an app originating a network access event in block . For example the data access app may intercept one or more network data packets comprising the network access event and may determine what app created the network data packets what app is trying to access the network or what app is operating in the foreground at the time of the network access event. In some cases the app that is in the foreground and that the user is interacting with is the app that originated the network access event. For example if the user is interacting with an email app and the network access event is related to sending an email message then the originating app may be the email app.

In other cases the user may be interacting with a foreground app that is not directly responsible for originating the network access event. For example if the user is interacting with a social networking app and selects a video to view within the social networking app the video may be hosted from a different data end point than the social networking app and may be accessed by a video app that can play through the social networking app. In such a case the user believes they are interacting with the social networking app even though it is the video app that creates the network access event. The data access app may identify the social networking app as the originating app rather than the video app because that is what the user understands to be happening. In some embodiments the data access app may identify all of the apps involved in the network access event as the originating apps.

The logic flow may attach an identifier indicating the identified originating app to a network data packet in the network access event in block . For example the data access app may append a short bit sequence to one or more network data packets in the network access event that identify the originating app to the data access server for example as a header.

The logic flow may determine whether the mobile device is connected to a Wi Fi network in block . For example the data access app may determine or inquire to the operating system or a network controller as to whether a Wi Fi connection exists.

When the mobile device is connected to a Wi Fi network the logic flow may send the network data packet to a data end point via the Wi Fi network in block . In some embodiments blocks and may occur before blocks and .

When the mobile device is not connected to a Wi Fi network the logic flow may send the network data packet to a data end point via a data access server in block . For example the data access app may send the tagged data packet s to the data access server for forwarding when a policy exists to the data end point of the network access event.

The logic flow may design one or more data service packages according to analyzed data about app use on one or more client devices in block . For example the data package service may design data service packages for the most used apps for the apps that use the most data for groups of apps commonly used together for times of day of high data use for times of day of low network congestions and so forth as determined from the analyzed data. Other data service packages may be designed to maximize operator revenue increase repeat purchases by users incentivize app use and so forth. A data service package may include one or more parameters that define how a mobile device can access and use a cellular data network and may have an associated price.

The logic flow may receive a request for a data service package for a client device in block . For example the data package service may receive this request when a mobile device is attempting to use or access a cellular data network without having purchased access. The request may come from the data access server on behalf of the mobile device . The request may include a context of the mobile device such as what app is in the foreground a location of the mobile device what app was used previously and so forth. The request may include information to identify the particular mobile device and or the user.

The logic flow may access analyzed data for the client device and select one or more data service packages according to the analyzed data in block . For example the data package service may select data service packages that apply to the originating app to the app that is in the foreground or to a group of apps that include the originating or foreground app. The data package service may select data service packages that apply to the time of day of the request or to data amounts associated with the apps used by the mobile device. The data package service may select data service packages that provide discounts to shift the network usage to a less congested time or to sponsored or promoted data service packages. If there are no existing data service packages for the particular app the data package service may select data service packages that apply more generally to a time of day a data amount or to an amount of funds remaining in a user account. In some embodiments the data package service may generate and select data service packages specific to the mobile device and its historical use and current context.

The logic flow may present the selected one or more data service packages to the client device and receive a selection of a data service package in block . For example the data package service may transmit descriptive information about the selected data service packages via the data access server so that the descriptive information can be presented to a user as offers for selection at the mobile device . The descriptive information may be associated with a specific data service package for example with an identifier. The data package service may subsequently receive via the data access server a selection of a specific data service package that the user has chosen to purchase.

The logic flow may coordinate payment for the client selected data service package in block . For example the data package service may transfer funds from a user account to an operator of the cellular system . The data package service may cause a third party payment system to transfer funds from a user account to operator of the cellular system .

The logic flow may generate a policy associated with the client selection in block . For example the data package service may generate a policy in the form of a data structure that includes parameters rules definitions or other descriptions of the circumstances under which the mobile device may access the cellular data network. The policy may be provided to the data access server for enforcement.

Beginning in the logic flow may receive a network data packet from a client device in block . For example the data access server may receive one or more network data packets sent by the data access app on a mobile device .

The logic flow may determine an originating app and a data end point from the network data packet in block . For example the data access server may read decode interpret or otherwise examine a tag placed on the network data packet by the data access app . The tag may identify the app that created the network data packet or the app that was in the foreground on the mobile device when the network data packet was created. In some embodiments the tag may further include an identifier for the mobile device and or an identifier for the user. The data end point may be determined from an address in the network data packet or a known data end point for the originating app.

The logic flow may determine in block if there is a policy that allows the client device to access a cellular data network. For example the data access server may examine policies in a policy store to determine if there are any policies associated with the particular mobile device and or the user. If there are such policies the data access server may determine whether any of those policies allow access to the cellular data network for the originating app.

When there is a policy that allows the access the logic flow may forward the network data packet to the data end point in block . When there is no policy that allows the access the logic flow may proceed to block .

Turning to from block the logic flow may request a data service package from a data package service in block . In addition to requesting the data service package the data access server may provide in or with the request a current context of the mobile device that sent the network data packet and may also provide identifiers of the mobile device and or the user.

The logic flow may receive one or more data service packages from the data package service in block . For example the data access server may receive descriptions of various data service packages that the data package service has selected for the user context and mobile device.

The logic flow may forward the one or more data service packages from the data package service to the client device in block and may relay a selection of a data service package from the client device to the data package service in block . In various embodiments the forwarding and receiving may take place using the cellular system where the associated data transfers are white listed by the cellular system .

The logic flow may receive a policy associated with the selection from the data package service in block . For example the data access server may receive and store a policy that describes or defines the parameters under which the mobile device is permitted to access the cellular data network of the cellular system .

The device may comprise any electronic device capable of receiving processing and sending information for the system . Examples of an electronic device may include without limitation an ultra mobile device a mobile device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a smart phone a telephone a digital telephone a cellular telephone eBook readers a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a netbook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a main frame computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics game devices television digital television set top box wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The device may execute processing operations or logic for the system using a processing component . The processing component may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

The device may execute communications operations or logic for the system using communications component . The communications component may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols such as techniques suitable for use with packet switched networks e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth circuit switched networks e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of packet switched networks and circuit switched networks with suitable gateways and translators . The communications component may include various types of standard communication elements such as one or more communications interfaces network interfaces network interface cards NIC radios wireless transmitters receivers transceivers wired and or wireless communication media physical connectors and so forth. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired communications media and wireless communications media. Examples of wired communications media may include a wire cable metal leads printed circuit boards PCB backplanes switch fabrics semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optics a propagated signal and so forth. Examples of wireless communications media may include acoustic radio frequency RF spectrum infrared and other wireless media.

The device may communicate with other devices over a communications media respectively using communications signals respectively via the communications component . The devices may be internal or external to the device as desired for a given implementation. The device may comprise a mobile device a data end point or components of the cellular system . The device may comprise a second data endpoint or other components of the cellular system . The signals and may jointly carry data packets between a data access app and a data end point .

The distributed system may comprise a client device and a server device . In general the client device and the server device may be the same or similar to the client device as described with reference to . For instance the client system and the server system may each comprise a processing component and a communications component which are the same or similar to the processing component and the communications component respectively as described with reference to . In another example the devices may communicate over a communications media using communications signals via the communications components .

The client device may comprise or employ one or more client programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the client device may implement the data access app .

The server device may comprise or employ one or more server programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the server device may implement the data package service and or the data access server .

As used in this application the terms system and component are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution examples of which are provided by the exemplary computing architecture . For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further components may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Exemplary connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

The computing architecture includes various common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components power supplies and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to implementation by the computing architecture .

As shown in the computing architecture comprises a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors including without limitation an AMD Athlon Duron and Opteron processors ARM application embedded and secure processors IBM and Motorola DragonBall and PowerPC processors IBM and Sony Cell processors Intel Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and XScale processors and similar processors. Dual microprocessors multi core processors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. Interface adapters may connect to the system bus via a slot architecture. Example slot architectures may include without limitation Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and the like.

The computing architecture may comprise or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may comprise a computer readable storage medium to store logic. Examples of a computer readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like. Embodiments may also be at least partly implemented as instructions contained in or on a non transitory computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors to enable performance of the operations described herein.

The system memory may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the system memory can include non volatile memory and or volatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in the non volatile memory .

The computer may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units including an internal or external hard disk drive HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive to read from or write to a removable optical disk e.g. a CD ROM or DVD . The HDD FDD and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a HDD interface an FDD interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The HDD interface for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1594 interface technologies.

The drives and associated computer readable media provide volatile and or nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For example a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the one or more application programs other program modules and program data can include for example the various applications and or components of the mobile data access system .

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wire wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices may include microphones infra red IR remote controls radio frequency RF remote controls game pads stylus pens card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors styluses and the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port IEEE 1594 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface and so forth.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adaptor . The monitor may be internal or external to the computer . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices such as speakers printers and so forth.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wire and or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor can facilitate wire and or wireless communications to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or as other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wire and or wireless device connects to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. IEEE 802.5 over the air modulation techniques . This includes at least Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity WiMax and Bluetooth wireless technologies among others. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.5x a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wire networks which use IEEE 802.3 related media and functions .

As shown in the communications architecture comprises includes one or more clients and servers . The clients may implement a client device such as the mobile device . The servers may implement a server device such as the data access server or the data package service . The clients and the servers are operatively connected to one or more respective client data stores and server data stores that can be employed to store information local to the respective clients and servers such as cookies and or associated contextual information.

The clients and the servers may communicate information between each other using a communication framework . The communications framework may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols. The communications framework may be implemented as a packet switched network e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth a circuit switched network e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of a packet switched network and a circuit switched network with suitable gateways and translators .

The communications framework may implement various network interfaces arranged to accept communicate and connect to a communications network. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and the like token ring wireless network interfaces cellular network interfaces IEEE 802.11a x network interfaces IEEE 802.16 network interfaces IEEE 802.20 network interfaces and the like. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types. For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and unicast networks. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and capacity distributed network controller architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by clients and the servers . A communications network may be any one and the combination of wired and or wireless networks including without limitation a direct interconnection a secured custom connection a private network e.g. an enterprise intranet a public network e.g. the Internet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network a cellular network and other communications networks.

The device may implement some or all of the structure and or operations for the mobile data access system and or logic circuit in a single computing entity such as entirely within a single device. Alternatively the device may distribute portions of the structure and or operations for the mobile data access system and or logic circuit across multiple computing entities using a distributed system architecture such as a client server architecture a 3 tier architecture an N tier architecture a tightly coupled or clustered architecture a peer to peer architecture a master slave architecture a shared database architecture and other types of distributed systems. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment radio interface may include a component or combination of components adapted for transmitting and or receiving single carrier or multi carrier modulated signals e.g. including complementary code keying CCK and or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols although the embodiments are not limited to any specific over the air interface or modulation scheme. Radio interface may include for example a receiver a transmitter and or a frequency synthesizer . Radio interface may include bias controls a crystal oscillator and or one or more antennas . In another embodiment radio interface may use external voltage controlled oscillators VCOs surface acoustic wave filters intermediate frequency IF filters and or RF filters as desired. Due to the variety of potential RF interface designs an expansive description thereof is omitted.

Baseband circuitry may communicate with radio interface to process receive and or transmit signals and may include for example an analog to digital converter for down converting received signals a digital to analog converter for up converting signals for transmission. Further baseband circuitry may include a baseband or physical layer PHY processing circuit for PHY link layer processing of respective receive transmit signals. Baseband circuitry may include for example a processing circuit for medium access control MAC data link layer processing. Baseband circuitry may include a memory controller for communicating with processing circuit and or a computing platform for example via one or more interfaces .

In some embodiments PHY processing circuit may include a frame construction and or detection module in combination with additional circuitry such as a buffer memory to construct and or deconstruct communication frames such as radio frames. Alternatively or in addition MAC processing circuit may share processing for certain of these functions or perform these processes independent of PHY processing circuit . In some embodiments MAC and PHY processing may be integrated into a single circuit.

The computing platform may provide computing functionality for the device . As shown the computing platform may include a processing component . In addition to or alternatively of the baseband circuitry the device may execute processing operations or logic for the mobile data access system and logic circuit using the processing component . The processing component and or PHY and or MAC may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

The computing platform may further include other platform components . Other platform components include common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components e.g. digital displays power supplies and so forth. Examples of memory units may include without limitation various types of computer readable and machine readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information.

Device may be for example an ultra mobile device a mobile device a fixed device a machine to machine M2M device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a smart phone a telephone a digital telephone a cellular telephone user equipment eBook readers a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a netbook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a main frame computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics game devices television digital television set top box wireless access point base station node B evolved node B eNB subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combination thereof. Accordingly functions and or specific configurations of device described herein may be included or omitted in various embodiments of device as suitably desired. In some embodiments device may be configured to be compatible with protocols and frequencies associated one or more of the 3GPP LTE Specifications and or IEEE 802.16 Standards for WMANs and or other broadband wireless networks cited herein although the embodiments are not limited in this respect.

Embodiments of device may be implemented using single input single output SISO architectures. However certain implementations may include multiple antennas e.g. antennas for transmission and or reception using adaptive antenna techniques for beamforming or spatial division multiple access SDMA and or using MIMO communication techniques.

The components and features of device may be implemented using any combination of discrete circuitry application specific integrated circuits ASICs logic gates and or single chip architectures. Further the features of device may be implemented using microcontrollers programmable logic arrays and or microprocessors or any combination of the foregoing where suitably appropriate. It is noted that hardware firmware and or software elements may be collectively or individually referred to herein as logic or circuit. 

It should be appreciated that the exemplary device shown in the block diagram of may represent one functionally descriptive example of many potential implementations. Accordingly division omission or inclusion of block functions depicted in the accompanying figures does not infer that the hardware components circuits software and or elements for implementing these functions would be necessarily be divided omitted or included in embodiments.

A computer implemented method may comprise collecting data by a data access app executing on a device. The data is about other apps used on the device. the method may include transmitting the collected data to a data package service and receiving one or more data service packages from the data package service. The method may include presenting the one or more data service packages in a user interface on the device receiving a control directive selecting one of the one or more data service packages and transmitting the selected data service package to the data package service. The method may include transmitting a data packet to a data end point according to the selected data service package.

The method may collect data about which apps are used on the device an amount of network data consumption of an app in use on the device data end points accessed by an app a sequence of apps used on the device or frequency or duration of use of an app on the device. The collected data may be sent to a data package service periodically.

The method may include identifying for a network access event an app originating the network access event or a data end point of the network access event and measuring an amount of network traffic requested or used by an app executing on the apparatus. The method may include attaching an identifier to a data packet the identifier indicating an originating app of the data packet. The method may include identifying a first app as the originating app when the first app uses a second app to access a data end point. The method may include mapping an app originating a network access event or an amount of network traffic to a specific data end point process or socket. A network access event comprises sending data or a request for data or receiving data or a request for data over a network by the device.

The method may include sending a network data packet to a data end point when the device is connected to a Wi Fi network and sending the network data packet to the data end point via a data access server using a cellular data network when the device is not connected to a Wi Fi network.

The method may include presenting the user interface while an app other than the data access app is executing on the foreground on the device. The method may include presenting the user interface while an app other than the data access app is opened on the device.

The method may include registering a virtual private network VPN profile with an operating system executing on the device wherein all network data packets are provided to the data access app prior to being transmitted on a network.

An apparatus may comprise a processor circuit and a data access app operative on the processor circuit comprising a traffic mapper to identify for a network access event an app originating the network access event or a data end point of the network access event and to measure an amount of network traffic requested or used by an app executing on the apparatus a packet tagger to attach an identifier to a data packet the identifier indicating an originating app of the data packet and a packet router to send a data packet to a data end point when the apparatus is connected to a Wi Fi network and to send the data packet to the data end point via a data access server using a cellular data network when the apparatus is not connected to a Wi Fi network.

The data access app may include an offer component to receive one or more data service packages from a data package service in response to a network access event present the one or more data service packages in a user interface on the apparatus receive a control directive selecting one of the one or more data service packages and send the selected data service package to the data package service. The user interface is presented while the originating app is executing on the foreground on the apparatus or when the originating app is opened on the apparatus.

The data access app comprises an app monitor to collect data about what apps are used on the apparatus a duration of use of apps on the apparatus a time of day of use of apps on the apparatus a sequence of apps used on the apparatus or a frequency of use of an app on the apparatus. The app monitor sends the collected data to a data package service periodically. The data access app and an originating app are separate apps.

The traffic mapper sends data about the measured amount of network traffic to a data package service periodically. The traffic mapper identifies a first app as the originating app when the first app uses a second app to access a data end point. The traffic mapper maps an app originating a network access event or an amount of network traffic to a specific data end point process or socket.

The data access app registers a virtual private network VPN profile with an operating system executing on the apparatus wherein all network data packets are provided to the data access app prior to being transmitted on a network.

At least one computer readable storage medium may comprising instructions that when executed cause an apparatus to identify for a network access event an app originating the network access event attach an identifier to a network data packet of the network access event the identifier indicating an originating app of the network data packet send a network data packet to a data end point when the apparatus is connected to a Wi Fi network and send the network data packet to the data end point via a data access server using a cellular data network when the apparatus is not connected to a Wi Fi network.

The computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to receive one or more data service packages from a data package service in response to a network access event present the one or more data service packages in a user interface on the apparatus receive a control directive selecting one of the one or more data service packages and send the selected data service package to the data package service. The user interface may be presented while the originating app is executing on the foreground on the apparatus or when the originating app is opened on the apparatus.

The computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to collect data about what apps are used on the apparatus a duration of use of apps on the apparatus a time of day of use of apps on the apparatus a sequence of apps used on the apparatus or a frequency of use of an app on the apparatus. The collected data may be sent to a data package service periodically.

The computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to measure an amount of network traffic requested or used by an app executing on the apparatus and send data about the measured amount of network traffic to a data package service periodically.

The computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to identify a first app as the originating app when the first app uses a second app to access a data end point.

The computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to register a virtual private network VPN profile with an operating system executing on the apparatus wherein all network data packets are provided to a data access app prior to being transmitted on a network.

A computer implemented method may include receiving data at a data package service wherein the data is about app use on one or more client devices analyzing the data to obtain analyzed data designing one or more data service packages according to the analyzed data wherein a data service package defines one or more parameters for allowing access by a client device to a cellular data network transmitting one or more data service packages to a client device receiving a selection of a data service package from the client device receiving payment for the selected data service package and uploading a policy associated with the selected data service package to a data access server.

The method may include receiving data about which apps on a client device are used an amount of network data consumption of an app in use on a client device data end points accessed by an app a sequence of apps used on a client device or frequency or duration of use of an app on a client device.

The method may include receiving operator data from a cellular data network operator and designing one or more data service packages according to the operator data. The method may include receiving operator data including operator network capacity operator network usage or operator revenue targets.

The method may include designing a data service package including a price and a specified amount of data usage for an app. The method may include designing a data service package including a price and a specified amount of data usage for a duration of time by any app. The method may include designing a data service package including a price and a specified amount of data usage for a plurality of apps.

The method may include receiving a request from the data access server for a data service package for a client device accessing the analyzed data for the client device selecting one or more data service packages for the client device according to the analyzed data for the client device and transmitting the selected one or more data service packages to the client device. The method may include receiving a device context with the request from the data access server and selecting one or more data service packages for the client device according to at least one of the analyzed data for the client device or the device context.

The method may include analyzing the data to obtain most used apps by duration of use most frequently used apps average data usage per app other apps used in sequence with an app or a time of day of use of an app.

The method may include designing one or more data service packages periodically deleting one or more data service packages periodically or modifying one or more data service packages periodically.

The method may include analyzing purchased data service packages for amount of use or revenue received and modifying deleting or designing new data service packages according to the analyzing.

An apparatus may comprise a processor circuit and a package generator component operative on the processor circuit to receive analyzed data about app use on one or more client devices and design one or more data service packages according to the analyzed data wherein a data service package defines one or more parameters for allowing access by a client device to a cellular data network.

The apparatus may include an offer interface component operative on the processor circuit to receive a request for a data service package for a client device access analyzed data for the client device select one or more data service packages for the client device according to the analyzed data for the client device transmit the selected one or more data service packages to the client device and receive a client selection of one of the one or more data service packages from the client device. the offer interface component may receive payment for the client selection and generate a policy associated with the client selection and to forward the policy to a data access server. The policy associated with a data service package comprises parameters that define when the client device can use cellular data network.

The apparatus may comprise a client data analyzer operative on the processor circuit to receive data about app use on one or more client devices and analyze the data to obtain the analyzed data.

The apparatus may comprise an operator interface component operative on the processor circuit to receive operator data from a cellular data network operator. The package generator component may be operative to design one or more data service packages according to the operator data.

The offer interface component may be operative to receive a device context with the request for a data service package and to select one or more data service packages for the client device according to at least one of the analyzed data for the client device or the device context. The device context includes what app is in the foreground on the client device at the time of the request what data end point an app on the client device is attempting to access or a time of day of the request.

At least one computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause a system to design one or more data service packages according to analyzed data about app use on one or more client devices receive a request for a data service package for a client device select one or more data service packages for the client device according to the analyzed data transmit the selected one or more data service packages to the client device receive a client selection of one of the one or more data service packages from the client device receive payment for the client selection and generate a policy associated with the client selection.

The computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause the system to receive data about app use on one or more client devices and analyze the data to obtain the analyzed data.

The computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause the system to receive operator data from a cellular data network operator and design one or more data service packages according to the operator data.

A policy associated with a data service package comprises parameters that define when the client device can use cellular data network.

The computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause the system to receive a device context with the request for a data service package and select one or more data service packages for the client device according to at least one of the analyzed data for the client device or the device context.

The computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause the system to forward the policy to a data access server.

A computer implemented method may comprise receiving a network data packet from a client device determining an originating app and a data end point from the network data packet determining whether a policy in a policy store allows the client device to access a cellular data network and forwarding the network data packet to the data end point on the cellular data network when a policy does allow the access.

The method may comprise requesting a data service package from a data package service when there is no policy that allows access by the client device receiving one or more data service packages from the data package service forwarding the one or more data service packages to the client device receiving a selection of a data service package from the client device forwarding the selection to the data package service and receiving a policy associated with the selection from the data package service where the policy defines parameters for when the client device can access the cellular data network.

The method may comprise including a device context with the request to the data package service wherein the device context includes what app is in the foreground on the client device at the time the data packet is received the data end point of the network data packet or a time of day that the network data packet is received.

In the method forwarding the network data packet to the data end point is rate adjusted by an operator of the cellular data network.

The method may comprise discarding the network data packet when there is no policy that allows access by the client device.

The method may comprise searching for a policy in the policy store that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for the originating app. The method may comprise searching for a policy in the policy store that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for a specified amount of data usage. The method may comprise searching for a policy in the policy store that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for a duration of time. The method may comprise searching for a policy in the policy store that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for a time of day.

An apparatus may comprise a processor circuit and a tag decoder operative on the processor circuit to receive a network data packet from a client device and determine an originating app and a data end point from the network data packet.

The apparatus may comprise a policy enforcer operative on the processor circuit to determine whether a policy in a policy store allows the client device to access a cellular data network and a network component operative on the processor circuit to forward the network data packet to the data end point via the cellular data network when a policy does allow the access.

The apparatus may comprise an offer coordinator operative on the processor circuit to request a data service package from a data package service when there is no policy that allows access by the client device receive one or more data service packages from the data package service forward the one or more data service packages to the client device receive a selection of a data service package from the client device forward the selection to the data package service and receive a policy associated with the selection from the data package service where the policy defines parameters for when the client device can access a cellular data network. The offer coordinator may be operative to store a received policy in the policy store.

The tag decoder may be operative to determine the originating app from a tag in the network data packet and to determine the data end point from an address in the network data packet.

The policy enforcer may be operative to discard the network data packet when there is no policy that allows access by the client device.

The policy enforcer operative to search for a policy in the policy store that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for the originating app that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for a specified amount of data usage that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for a duration of time or that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for a time of day.

At least one computer readable storage medium may comprising instructions that when executed cause an apparatus to receive a network data packet from a client device determine an originating app and a data end point from the network data packet determine whether a policy in a policy store allows the client device to access a cellular data network and forward the network data packet to the data end point via the cellular data network when a policy does allow the access.

The computer readable storage medium of may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to request a data service package from a data package service when there is no policy that allows access by the client device receive one or more data service packages from the data package service forward the one or more data service packages to the client device receive a selection of a data service package from the client device forward the selection to the data package service and receive a policy associated with the selection from the data package service where the policy defines parameters for when the client device can access a cellular data network. The instructions may cause the apparatus to store a received policy in the policy store.

The computer readable storage medium of may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to determine the originating app from a tag in the network data packet.

The computer readable storage medium of may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to determine the data end point from an address in the network data packet.

The computer readable storage medium of may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to discard the network data packet when there is no policy that allows access by the client device.

The computer readable storage medium of may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to search for a policy in the policy store that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for the originating app.

The computer readable storage medium of may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to search for a policy in the policy store that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for a specified amount of data usage.

The computer readable storage medium of may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to search for a policy in the policy store that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for a duration of time.

The computer readable storage medium of may comprise instructions that when executed cause the apparatus to search for a policy in the policy store that allows the client device to access the cellular data network for a time of day.

At least one computer readable storage medium may comprise instructions that when executed cause a system to perform any of the computer implemented methods described herein.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression one embodiment or an embodiment along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

With general reference to notations and nomenclature used herein the detailed descriptions herein may be presented in terms of program procedures executed on a computer or network of computers. These procedural descriptions and representations are used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art.

A procedure is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. These operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It proves convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be noted however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to those quantities.

Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as adding or comparing which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein which form part of one or more embodiments. Rather the operations are machine operations. Useful machines for performing operations of various embodiments include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

Various embodiments also relate to apparatus or systems for performing these operations. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purpose or it may comprise a general purpose computer as selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. The procedures presented herein are not inherently related to a particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose machines may be used with programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these machines will appear from the description given.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

