---

title: Compositions comprising free-standing two-dimensional nanocrystals
abstract: The present invention is directed to compositions comprising free standing and stacked assemblies of two dimensional crystalline solids, and methods of making the same.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09416011&OS=09416011&RS=09416011
owner: Drexel University
number: 09416011
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151013
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 094 966 filed Dec. 3 2013 which is a continuation in part of PCT US2012 043273 filed Jun. 20 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 61 499 318 61 521 428 and 61 587 172 filed Jun. 21 2011 Aug. 9 2011 and Jan. 17 2012 respectively. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 094 966 also claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 733 015 filed Dec. 4 2012. The subject matter of each of these applications is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.

This invention was made with government support under a grant from the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE ACO2 05CH11231 Subcontract 6951370. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed to compositions comprising free standing two dimensional crystalline solids and methods of making the same.

Typically two dimensional 2 D free standing crystals exhibit properties that differ from those of their three dimensional 3 D counterparts. Currently however there are relatively few materials which can be described as 2 D atomically scaled layered solids. Clearly the most studied freestanding 2 D material is graphene but other materials include hexagonal BN certain transition metal oxides hydroxides and silicates including clays SN MoSand WSare also known. Currently the number of non oxide materials that have been exfoliated is limited to two fairly small groups viz. hexagonal van der Waals bonded structures e.g. graphene and BN and layered metal chalcogenides e.g. MoS WS etc. .

Although graphene has attracted more attention than all other 2 D materials together its simple chemistry and the weak van der Waals bonding between layers in multi layer structures limit its use. Given the properties of graphene for applications ranging from composite reinforcement to electronics there is interest in other new materials which may also be described as 2 D atomically scaled layered solids.

This invention is directed to compositions comprising free standing and stacked assemblies of two dimensional crystalline solids and methods of making the same.

Various embodiments of this invention provide compositions comprising at least one layer having first and second surfaces each layer comprising 

each crystal cell having an empirical formula of MX such that each X is positioned within an octahedral array of M 

Other embodiments provide that at least one of the surfaces is coated with a coating comprising alkoxide carboxylate halide hydroxide oxide sub oxide nitride sub nitride sulfide thiol or a combination thereof.

Still further embodiments provide polymer composites comprising an organic polymer and at least one composition described in the preceding paragraphs.

Certain embodiments provide for at least one stacked assembly of at least two layers having first and second surfaces each layer comprising 

a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells each crystal cell having the empirical formula of MX such that each X is positioned within an octahedral array of M 

In other embodiments at least one of the surfaces of the layers within a stacked assembly has bound thereto alkoxide carboxylate halide hydroxide oxide sub oxide nitride sub nitride sulfide thiol or a combination thereof

In some embodiments the stacked assemblies described in the preceding paragraphs are capable of or have atoms or ions that are intercalated between at least some of the layers. In other embodiments these atoms or ions are lithium. In still other embodiments these structures are part of an energy storing device or a battery.

removing substantially all of the A atoms from a MAX phase composition having an empirical formula of MAX.

thereby providing a composition comprising at least one layer having a first and second surface each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying Figures and Examples which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific products methods conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of any claimed invention. Similarly unless specifically otherwise stated any description as to a possible mechanism or mode of action or reason for improvement is meant to be illustrative only and the invention herein is not to be constrained by the correctness or incorrectness of any such suggested mechanism or mode of action or reason for improvement. Throughout this text it is recognized that the descriptions refer both to compositions and to the articles and devices derived therefrom as well as the methods of manufacture and use.

In the present disclosure the singular forms a an and the include the plural reference and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a material is a reference to at least one of such materials and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

When values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. In general use of the term about indicates approximations that can vary depending on the desired properties sought to be obtained by the disclosed subject matter and is to be interpreted in the specific context in which it is used based on its function and the person skilled in the art will be able to interpret it as such. In some cases the number of significant figures used for a particular value may be one non limiting method of determining the extent of the word about. In other cases the gradations used in a series of values may be used to determine the intended range available to the term about for each value. Where present all ranges are inclusive and combinable. That is reference to values stated in ranges includes each and every value within that range.

It is to be appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described herein in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention that are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any subcombination. Finally while an embodiment may be described as part of a series of steps or part of a more general composition or structure each said step may also be considered an independent embodiment in itself.

Various embodiments of this invention provide for crystalline compositions comprising at least one layer having first and second surfaces each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells each crystal cell is an ordered array of atoms having an empirical formula of MX such that each X is positioned within an octahedral array of M wherein M is at least one Group IIIB IVB VB or VIB metal wherein each X is C or N i.e. stoichiometrically X CN including where x y 1 and n 1 2 or 3. In some embodiments these compositions comprise a plurality of layers. Other embodiments provide for stacked assemblies of such layers. Collectively such compositions are referred to herein as MXene MXene compositions or MXene materials. Additionally these terms MXene MXene compositions or MXene materials also refer to those compositions derived by the chemical exfoliation of MAX phase materials whether these compositions are present as free standing 2 dimensional or stacked assemblies as described further below . provides a representation of the crystal cells of various MX where n 1 2 or 3 frameworks presented however in the context of corresponding MAX phase materials see also below . In various embodiments each X is positioned within an octahedral array of M.

Analogous to other so called two dimensional atomically scaled layered solid materials such as graphene or hexagonal BN these MXene crystalline compositions may be free standing or be present in stacked compositions. As used herein the term free standing refers to individual layers wherein the adjacent composite crystal layers are not bonded to one another by covalent bonds or connected by metal lattice bonds but may be joined by intervening hydrogen or even weaker bonding such that each such layer can be physically manipulated. See e.g. . However this term does not preclude the deposition of these layers or stacked layers on substrates or within polymer compositions see also below .

The term crystalline compositions comprising at least one layer having first and second surfaces each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells refers to the unique character of these materials. For purposes of visualization the two dimensional array of crystal cells may be viewed as an array of cells extending in an x y plane with the z axis defining the thickness of the composition without any restrictions as to the absolute orientation of that plane or axes. It is preferred that the at least one layer having first and second surface contain but a single two dimensional array of crystal cells that is the z dimension is defined by the dimension of approximately one crystal cell such that the planar surfaces of said cell array defines the surface of the layer it should be appreciated that real compositions may contain portions having more than single crystal cell thicknesses.

That is as used herein a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells refers to an array which preferably includes a lateral in x y dimension array of crystals having a thickness of a single cell e.g. corresponding to the MX MX or MXcells as depicted in such that the top and bottom surfaces of the array are available for chemical modification.

It should also be appreciated that analogous to graphene or hexagonal BN compositions this description of a planar or two dimensional array should not be interpreted to describe a necessarily flat structure rather such compositions may also take the form of a curved or undulating plane a scroll or a cylinder or tube e.g. analogous to the structure of a carbon or BN nanotube .

In certain embodiments the compositions may contain C or N atoms or a mixture thereof but in any case these atoms are positioned within an octahedral or pseudo octahedral array of M atoms reminiscent of the positioning of the carbon or nitrogen atom within MAX phase materials. While not necessarily being bound to the scientific accuracy of this statement this arrangement appears to protect the C and or N atoms from external chemical attack while at the same time providing a degree of structural strength to the 2 dimensional layers.

Given the difficulties in obtaining crystallographic evidence as to the crystallinity of materials having such few layers e.g. less than about 5 cell layers owing to the reduced level or lack of constructive interference of such few layers these materials may be characterized by measuring the thickness of the individual layers measured for example by Transmission Electron Micrography or atomic force microscopy . Depending on the particular empirical formula of the given material the thickness of a given single cell layer will be on the order of about 0.2 to about 0.3 nm preferably about 0.25 nm for MX compositions about 0.3 to about 0.7 nm preferably about 0.5 nm for MXcompositions and about 0.6 to about 0.9 nm preferably about 0.75 nm for MXcompositions. As described more fully below one method of preparing these compositions is to react a precursor MAX phase material so as to remove the labile A phase and exfoliating the resulting structure. In these cases it is so generally observed that the crystallinity of the resulting MXene framework which existed in the original MAX phase structure is sufficiently robust as to be retained during the preparation process so that the thickness measurements by themselves can be used to characterize the materials even in the absence of crystallographic analysis.

These MXene materials even individual or exfoliated layers can also be characterized by measuring the X ray diffraction XRD spectra of optionally cold pressed stacked layers see e.g. Example 2 and Example 4 below . That is such stacking provides a sample of sufficient thickness number of layers to allow for sufficient constructive interference so as to provide for a measurable XRD pattern to be obtained. One distinguishing feature of XRD patterns thus generated is the presence of peaks at 2 of ca. 5 7 i.e. between about 4.5 and about 9.5 when Cu Kradiation is used corresponding to the d spacing thickness of the individual layers including the surface coatings of each layer and lower than the 002 peaks of the corresponding MAX phase materials. That this MXene peak occurs at lower 2 values reflecting higher d spacings of the layers than the corresponding 002 plane in a corresponding MAX phase material is consistent with the greater spacing of the crystal cells of the two materials in the former relative to the latter e.g. referring to the individual layers of the TiCin are spaced further apart than the corresponding layers in .

As described herein the terms M or M atoms M elements or M metals refers to one or more members of the Groups IIIB IVB VB or VIB or aka Groups 3 6 of the periodic table either alone or in combination said members including Sc Y Lu Ti Zr Hf V Nb Ta Cr Mo and W. The terms M or M atoms M elements or M metals may also include Mn. In preferred embodiments the transition metal is one or more of Sc Ti Zr Hf V Nb Ta Cr and or Mo. In other preferred embodiments the transition metal is one or more of Ti Zr V Cr Mo Nb and or Ta. In even more preferred embodiments the transition metal is Ti Ta Mo Nb V and or Cr.

The empirical formula MX wherein X is C N or a combination thereof and n 1 2 or 3 gives rise to a number of possible composition. For example and while not intending to be limited to this list exemplary compositions when n 1 includes those wherein the empirical formula of the crystalline phase is ScC ScN TiC TiN MoC VC VN CrC CrN ZrC ZrN NbC NbN HfC and HfN. Similarly non limiting exemplary compositions when n 2 includes those wherein the empirical formula of the crystalline phase is TiC TiN VC VC TaC and TaNand when n 3 includes those wherein the empirical formula is TiC TiN VC VN TaCand TaN. Especially important independent embodiments include those where M comprises at least one Group IVB element for example Ti Zr or Hf and those where M comprises at least one Group V elements for example V Nb or Ta. More preferred independent embodiments include those where M is Ti or Ta especially structures wherein the empirical formula of the crystalline phase is TiC TiN TiC TiN TiC or TiN or TaC TaN TaCor TaN especially TiC or TaC

The range of compositions available can be seen as extending even further when one considers that each M atom position within the overall MX matrix can be represented by more than one element. That is one or more type of M atom can occupy each M positions within the respective matrices. In certain exemplary non limiting examples these can be MM C or MM N MM Cor MM C or MM Cor MM C where Mand Mare independently members of the same group and x y 1. For example in but one non limiting example such a composition can be VCr C. In the same way one or more type of X atom can occupy each X position within the matrices for example solid solutions of the formulae M CN or MM CN .

In various embodiments the composition s layer has first and second surfaces which are capable of being physically or chemically interrogated or modified. This feature distinguishes these compositions from sputtered matrices or so called MAX phase compositions. While it may be possible to describe sputtered matrices or MAX phase compositions as containing two dimensional arrays of crystal cells in each case these are embedded within vertically integrated and practically bound to other layers within the respective matrices e.g. in the case of sputtered matrices to other neighboring sputtered layers or the substrate in the case of MAX phase compositions to interleaved A group element arrays either by covalent metallic or lattice bonds and which cannot be separately accessed. By contrast in various embodiments of the present compositions each layer has two available or accessible surfaces sandwiching each substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells each of which surfaces can be accessed for physical or chemical interrogation or modification.

It is important to note that as prepared the 2D MXene surfaces are not M terminated e.g. Ti terminated but primarily covered by oxide OH F groups or some combination thereof. For example in the case of a MXene of nominal composition TiC e.g. derived from MAX phase TiAlC in fact is probably better represented by a formula such as TiC OH OF. However since the exact surface composition may not be known with certainty and can vary from sample to sample and for the sake of brevity herein such MXene compositions of this sort e.g. such as derived from TiAlC may be referred to as TiC OH OF TiC or TiCT where Trefers to surface terminations or more generally MXT the latter terms being useful to replace the more cumbersome former term in a manner similar to the use of a general name graphene oxide for oxidized graphene which has a variety of oxygen containing groups.

Having said this the ability to functionalize the surfaces of the layers of the present invention to provide enrichment of a particular functional group provides a considerable synthetic and structural flexibility. Because of the arrangement of the M atoms within the MXframework wherein each X is positioned within an octahedral array of M atoms the unfunctionalized surface comprises largely M atoms. For example in the absence of imperfections a substantially planar array of crystal cells having an empirical formula TiCwill provide or present external surfaces comprising a planar array of Ti atoms see e.g. . At the same time owing to the chemical reactivity of Ti or any of the M atoms these surfaces will be coated with one or more organic or inorganic moieties generally comprising heteroatoms or having heteroatom linking groups.

For example in certain embodiments at least one of the surfaces are coated with a coating comprising H N O or S atoms for example a hydride oxide sub oxide nitride sub nitride sulfide or sub sulfide. In preferred embodiments the coating comprises a hydrated or anhydrous oxide a sub oxide or some combination thereof. As used herein the terms sub oxide sub nitride or sub sulfide is intended to connote a composition containing an amount reflecting a sub stoichiometric or a mixed oxidation state of the M metal at the surface of oxide nitride or sulfide respectively. For example various forms of titania are known to exist as TiO where x can be less than 2. Accordingly the surfaces of the present invention may also contain oxides nitrides or sulfides in similar sub stoichiometric or mixed oxidation state amounts.

In other embodiments at least one surface is coated with a coating having a pendant moiety which is linked to the surface by an N O or S atom e.g. an M N M O or M S bond respectively . Such surface coatings then may comprise at least one hydroxide alkoxide carboxylate amine amide or thiol. These pendants may contain organic moieties including saturated unsaturated and or aromatic moieties. These organic moieties may optionally include heteroatoms be linear or branched and or may contain one or more functional groups for example amines and derivatives therefrom thio carboxylic acids and derivatives therefrom hydroxy or ether groups and or thiol groups. The moieties and or optionally available functional groups may exist in their neutral or ionized state.

In other embodiments the coating of at least one surface comprises at least one halide for example F Cl Br or I preferably F. As used herein the terms halide and e.g. fluoride are intended to reflect the presence of metal halogen or metal fluorine bonds respectively without regard to the specific nominal charge on the halogen or fluorine.

The skilled artisan will be able to interchange the pendant groups by methods known in the art. Without the need for an exhaustive delineation of such methods in one non limiting example a hydroxy or alkoxy surface may be prepared by providing an excess hydroxide or alkoxide so as to displace the halide from an initially presented M halide surface or so as to hydrate or alkoxylate a metal oxide or sub oxide surface. Similarly an originally presented M hydroxide surface may be converted to oxide or sub oxide surface by application of heat or other dehydrating conditions. Nitrogen and sulfur surfaces may be analogously interconverted by methods known in the art for making such conversions. Similarly hydrides may be prepared by exposing precursors to reducing conditions either electrolytically or by contacting with reducing agents such as hydrides e.g. NaBH hydrogen gas or ammonia.

In certain embodiments the compositions of the present invention comprises at least one individual layer having first and second surfaces each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells having an empirical formula TiC with at least one surface coated with a coating comprising a hydroxide an oxide a sub oxide or a combination thereof and so optionally represented as TiCT. In other embodiments the coating comprises fluorine or fluoride.

In other embodiments the crystalline composition comprises at least one individual layer having first and second surfaces each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells having an empirical formula TaC with at least one surface coated with a coating comprising a hydroxide an oxide a sub oxide or a combination thereof and so represented as TaCT.

In still other embodiments the crystalline composition comprises at least one individual layer having first and second surfaces each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells having an empirical formula CrV C including where x y with at least one surface coated with a coating comprising a hydroxide an oxide a sub oxide or a combination thereof.

As described above certain additional embodiments provide MXene compositions which exhibit conductive or semi conductive behavior as well as those electronic devices e.g. transistors where the use of graphene and MoShas been successfully demonstrated which incorporate such compositions so as to take advantage of this property. Further it is shown that variations in the nature of the surface coating effects that behavior as shown by density functional theory DFT calculations methods described in Example 1 below . For example the calculated band structure of a single TiClayer resembles a typical semi metal with a finite density of states at the Fermi level. Indeed the resistivity of the thin disk shown in is estimated to about an order of magnitude higher than the same disc made with unreacted TiAlC powders which translates to a resistivity of ca. 0.03 m. By contrast when terminated with OH and F groups the band structure has a semiconducting character with a clear separation between valence and conduction bands by 0.05 eV and 0.1 eV respectively thereby supporting the conclusion that it is possible to tune the electronic structure of exfoliated MAX layers or MXene compositions by varying the functional groups. Such further modifications of the functional groups themselves may provide additional flexibility in this regard.

In certain embodiments MXene films or papers are sufficiently thin as to be transparent see e.g. Example 16 while maintaining surface conductivity. Optical transparencies as high as 90 have been obtained though in certain embodiments such MXene films or papers may exhibit optical transparencies i.e. at least one wavelength in a range of about 250 nm to about 850 nm in a range of from about 0 to about 95 or higher from about 50 to about 95 from about 70 to about 95 or from about 70 to about 90 . Such thin films may be prepared by delaminating epitaxially grown thin films either as prepared or intercalated with one or more materials as described herein.

Additional embodiments provide for the use or incorporation of MXene compositions into other materials or the incorporation of other materials within them. For example various embodiments provide polymer composites into which a MXene composition is incorporated. More particularly further embodiments provide polymer composite compositions wherein the MXene compositions comprises between amounts in the range of about 0.1 wt to about 50 wt relative to the combined weight of the polymer and MXene composition. Still other embodiments provide that the MXene composition is present in a range whose lower amount is about 0.1 about 1 about 2 about 5 or about 10 wt and the upper amount is about 50 wt about 40 wt about 30 wt about 20 wt about 10 wt or about 5 wt relative to the combined weight of the polymer and the MXene composition comprising a polymer.

The polymer composite may be comprised of organic polymers more specifically thermoset or thermoplastic polymers or polymer resins elastomers or mixtures thereof. Various embodiments include those wherein the polymer or polymer resin contains an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety for example phenyl biphenyl pyridinyl bipyridinyl naphthyl pyrimidinyl including derivative amides or esters of terephthalic acid or naphthalic acid. Other embodiments provide that the polymer or polymer resin comprises polyester polyamide polyethylene polypropylene polyethylenenaphthalate PEN polyethylene terephthalate PET polybutylene terephthalate PBT polyether etherketone PEEK polyamide polyaryletherketone PAEK polyethersulfone PES polyethylenenimine PEI poly p phenylene sulfide PPS polyvinyl chloride PVC fluorinated or perfluorinated polymer such as a polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE or TEFLON polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF a polyvinyl fluoride PVF or TEDLAR TEFLON and TEDLAR are registered trademarks of the E.I. DuPont de Nemours Company of Wilmington Del. 

It is believed that the planar nature of MXene layers may be well suited to organizing themselves in those anisotropic polymers for example having planar moieties e.g. aromatic moieties especially when but not only when these planar organic moieties are directionally oriented to be parallel in a polymer composite composition. Such embodiments include the inclusion of MXene compositions into liquid crystal polymers. Moreover the ability to produce MXene compositions having both hydrophobic and hydrophilic pendants provides for compatibility with a wide ranging variety of polymer materials.

Additional embodiments of the present invention provide polymer composites including those wherein the polymer composite is in a form having a planar configuration for example a film sheet or ribbon comprising a MXene layer or multilayer composition. Still further embodiments provide such polymer composites wherein the two dimensional crystal layers of the MXene materials are aligned or substantially aligned with the plane of a polymer composite film sheet or ribbon especially when the organic polymers are oriented in the plane of that film sheet or ribbon.

The large elastic moduli predicted by ab initio simulation and the possibility of varying their surface chemistries beyond those exemplified herein which are terminated by hydroxyl and or fluorine groups render these nanosheets attractive as polymer composite fillers. For example the elastic modulus of a single exfoliated TiC OH layer along the basal plane is calculated to be around 300 GPa which is within the typical range of transition metal carbides and significantly higher than most oxides and clays see e.g. P. H. Nadeau Applied Clay Science 1987 2 83 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety . And while the 300 GPa value is lower than that of graphene e.g. as described in S. Stankovich et al. Nature 2006 442 282 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety the ability to match the character of the MXene layered materials with that of the polymer matrix as described above is expected to ensure better bonding to and better dispersion in polymer matrices when these MXene layers are to be used as reinforcements in polymer composites. It is also important to note here that the functionalized TiCsheets described herein were much more stable than graphene sheets under the 200 kV electron beam in the TEM.

Accordingly still further embodiments provide that the MXene composition filled composite polymers especially when these polymer composites have a planar configuration such as that of film sheet or ribbon especially an oriented film sheet or ribbon exhibit a flexural strength bending rigidity and or stiffness than that of the corresponding film sheet or ribbon of the same polymer without the MXene composition. In some embodiments this greater flexural strength and or stiffness is independently at least 5 at least 10 or at least 25 higher than the flexural strength or toughness than that exhibited by an otherwise equivalent but unfilled material.

Thus far the compositions have been described in terms of having individual layers having first and second surfaces each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells. However additional embodiments provide for stacked assemblies of at least two layers having first and second surfaces each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells each crystal cell having the empirical formula of MX such that each X is positioned within an octahedral array of M wherein M is a Group IIIB IVB VB or VIB metal or Mn each X is C or N and n 1 2 or 3 and wherein the layers are characterized as having an average surface area and interlayer distance.

In various embodiments of these stacked assemblies each layer may retain the characteristics as described above but be held in place or edge wise connected such that the assembly has up to about 50 layers of crystal layers. In various embodiments these number of crystal layers in these assemblies may be described as having a range having a lower end of 2 about 5 about 10 about 15 or about 20 and an upper range of about 50 about 40 about 30 about 25 about 20 and about 10 with exemplary ranges of 2 to about 50 2 to about 25 2 to about 20 about 5 to about 50 about 5 to about 25 about 5 to about 20 about 10 to about 50 about 10 to about 25 about 10 to about 20 about 10 to about 15 about 15 to about 20.

In various embodiments the composite layers characterized as having an average surface area. While the bounds of these areas are not necessarily limited to any particular values in certain preferred embodiments the average surface or planar area is defined by a range of areas with individual embodiments having a lower range value of about 50 nm about 100 nm about 250 nm about 500 nm or about 1000 nm and having an upper range value of about 10 000 nm about 5000 nm about 2500 nm about 1000 nm about 500 nm about 250 nm or about 100 nm with exemplary ranges of about 100 nmto about 2500 nm of about 250 nmto about 2500 nm of about 500 nmto about 1500 nm of about 500 nmto about 1000 nm 50 nmto about 250 nm or about 750 nmto about 1000 nm.

In other preferred embodiments the average surface or planar area is defined by a range of areas with individual embodiments having a lower range value of about 5 m about 10 m about 25 m about 50 m about 100 m about 250 m about 500 m or about 1000 mand having an upper range value of about 100 000 m 10 000 m about 1000 m about 500 m about 250 m about 100 m about 50 m about 25 m or about 10 m with exemplary ranges of about 10 mto about 250 m of about 25 mto about 250 m of about 50 mto about 150 m of about 50 mto about 100 m 5 mto about 25 m or about 75 mto about 125 m.

While the surface of these composite layer may be of any shape it is convenient to describe such shapes as having a major and minor planar dimension or x axis and y axis dimensions using the envisioned x y plane as described above . For example if a quadrilateral or pseudo quadrilateral shape the major and minor dimension is the length and width dimensions. In preferred embodiments the ratio of the lengths of the major and minor axes is in the range of about 1 to about 10 1 10 to about 10 to about 1 10 1 about 1 to about 5 1 5 to about 5 to about 1 5 1 more preferably about 1 to about 3 1 3 to about 3 to about 1 3 1 or about 1 to about 2 1 2 to about 2 to about 1 2 1 .

Additionally in various embodiments the interlayer distances i.e. the distances between the composite crystal layers in these stacked assemblies is in the range of about 0.2 nm to about 1 nm preferably in the range of about 0.3 nm to about 0.5 nm. When prepared by the methods described below i.e. removing the labile A phase elements from MAX phase materials see below these interlayer distances may be consistent with the atomic radii of the removed elements. For example the atomic diameter of Al is about 0.25 nm and that of Sn about 0.3 nm.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide stacked assemblies which are capable of intercalating atoms and or ions between at least some of the layers of two dimensional crystal layers. Such spontaneous intercalation of cations from aqueous solutions was not theoretically or previously demonstrated. For example these atoms and or ions can be metal or metalloid atoms or ions including alkali alkaline earth and transition metals. In some embodiments these are alkali metal atoms and or ions e.g. Li Na K and or Cs and most preferably lithium. In other embodiments the atoms and or ions include ammonium magnesium and aluminum. In some embodiments these atoms and or ions are able to move into and out of the stacked assemblies.

In certain embodiments the cations intercalated spontaneously on exposure of the cations to the MX ene materials using alkaline or acidic aqueous media see e.g. Example 13.2 . Carbonates carboxylates such as described in Example 13.2 hydroxides and sulfates may be used to introduce the cations into between the MXene layers. In some cases notably Al the intercalation can additionally be promoted electrochemically. These intercalated compositions are able to induce high capacitances in flexible TiCTpaper electrodes in aqueous electrolytes. Generally these intercalated structures may be incorporated into electrodes double layer capacitors or both where said structures further comprise for example conductive carbon e.g. onion like carbon or carbon black and fluoropolymer binders including perfluorinated binders known in the art e.g. PTFE .

These multilayer structures or assemblies may be used for the same types of applications described above for the MXene layer compositions.

Additionally the ability to intercalate lithium atoms and or ions together with the electrical properties of the MXene layers described above provides the opportunities that these stacked assemblies may be used as energy storing devices e.g. anodes comprising these intercalated stacked composition or the energy storage devices themselves for example batteries comprising these elements.

Density functional theory DFT calculations at 0 K and in Li rich environments show that the formation of TiCLias a result of the intercalation of Li into the space vacated by the Al atoms assuming reaction TiC 2Li TiCLi 4 has an enthalpy change of 0.28 eV. One possible reason for the positive value maybe the fact that Li has an atomic radius of 145 pm whereas that of Al is 125 pm. The structure shown in would provide a capacity of 320 mAhg which is comparable to the 372 mAhgof graphite for LiC . More recently a steady state capacity of ca. 410 mAhghas been achieved for MX ene compositions comprising TiCintercalated with Lit

Accordingly various embodiments of the present invention include Li ion batteries and pseudo capacitor electrodes wherein the MXene layers or assemblies replace layered transition metal oxides which show useful red ox properties and Li intercalation but which have lower electrical conductivities than described herein for the MXene materials.

The ability of MXene to intercalate ions including lithium ions so as to allow these materials to act as Li ion batteries and or pseudo capacitor electrodes is shown in Example 10 below. Similarly the ability to intercalate a wide range of cations from aqueous solutions as shown in Example 13 both from multilayer MX enes and MX ene paper made from a few layers of MX ene materials makes these ionically intercalated materials useful for those embodiments comprising flexible and wearable energy storage devices. The fact that a variety of ions as different as Na and Al can be accommodated between the MXene layers provide for embodiments comprising batteries as well as in metal ion capacitors battery supercapacitor hybrids which comprise these intercalated MXene as well.

Other embodiments of the present invention provide stacked assemblies which are capable of being intercalated or actually are intercalated by small molecules or salts thereof between at least some of the layers of two dimensional crystal layers. In this regard the term small molecules describes molecules comprising C H N O or S and having molecular weights less than about 250 daltons. These molecules or salts are preferably but not necessarily polar. These molecules or salts are preferably but not necessarily aprotic. In some embodiments the stacked assemblies are capable of being intercalated or actually are intercalated by molecules or salts thereof said molecules or salt being those which are known to intercalate into kaolinite between at least some of the layers of two dimensional crystal layers. In this regard they may be described to as kaolinitic intercalators. Without being bound to any particular theory it appears that these intercalating chemicals are capable of stably interacting with the surface functionalities of the individual layers of the MX ene materials. Exemplary small molecules or kaolinitic intercalators include hydrazine hydrazine monohydrate DMSO urea and N N dimethylformamide. Ammonium hydroxide has also been demonstrated to intercalate into these stacked assemblies. N methylformamide NMF and 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP are also known to intercalate into kaolinite matrices

Example 14 describes some exemplary non limiting methods of intercalating these types of chemicals into the MX ene matrices. It is noted that for at least some of these chemicals the intercalation is reversible i.e. they can be inserted and removed by varying processing conditions including simple exposure to the potential intercalant and variations in temperature or both. It should also be apparent that introducing a first intercalated chemical into a given MX ene matrix may provide an opportunity to substitute it by a second chemical or chemicals perhaps larger organic molecules either by co or post intercalation thereby providing a route to a broader class of intercalated compositions similar to intercalated kaolinite derivatives. For example pyrrolidinium halide and benzamide intercalation compounds of kaolinite are known to be available from DMSO intercalated kaolinite and similar substitutions may be available for analogous compounds comprising these MX ene materials. The specific embodiments described in Example 14 are deemed part of the present invention.

In addition to the compositions of the MXene materials various embodiments provide for the preparation of such materials. Certain embodiments provide methods of preparing compositions comprising a removing substantially all of the A atoms from a MAX phase composition having an empirical formula of MAX wherein M is an early transition metal or a mixture thereof wherein A is a so called A group element typically described see below as including Al Si P S Ga Ge As Cd In Sn Tl and Pb wherein X is C or N or a combination thereof and wherein n 1 2 or 3 so as to provide a free standing composition comprising a framework of a substantially two dimensional composite crystal layer having first and second surfaces.

MAX phase compositions are generally recognized as comprising layered hexagonal carbides and nitrides have the general formula MAX MAX where n 1 to 3 in which M is typically described as an early transition metal comprising a Group IIIB IVB VB or VIB metal or Mn A is described as an A group mostly IIIA and IVA or groups 13 and 14 element and X is either carbon and or nitrogen. See e.g. M. W. Barsoum et al. Synthesis and Characterization of a Remarkable Ceramic TiSiC79 1953 1956 1996 M. W. Barsoum The MAXPhases A New Class of Solids Thermodynamically Stable Nanolaminates 28 201 281 2000 both of which are incorporated by reference herein. While TiAlCis among the most widely studied of these materials more than 60 MAX phases are currently known to exist and are useful in the present invention. While not intending to be limiting representative examples of MAX phase materials useful in the present invention include 211 TiCdC ScInC TiAlC TiGaC TiInC TiTlC VAlC VGaC CrGaC TiAlN TiGaN TiInN VGaN CrGaN TiGeC TiSnC TiPbC VGeC CrAlC CrGeC VPC VAsC TiSC ZrInC ZrTlC NbAlC NbGaC NbInC MoGaC ZrInN ZrTlN ZrSnC ZrPbC NbSnC NbPC NbAsC ZrSC NbSC HfInC HfTlC TaAlC TaGaC HfSnC HfPbC HfSnN HfSC 312 TiAlC VAlC TiSiC TiGeC TiSnC TaAlC and 413 TiAlN VAlC TiGaC TiSiC TiGeC NbAlC and TaAlC. Solid solutions of these materials can also be used as described herein e.g. see Example 4 .

MAX phase materials are themselves known to exist as laminated structures with anisotropic properties. These materials are layered hexagonal space group P6 mmc with two formula units per unit cell . Near close packed M layers are interleaved with pure A group element layers with the X atoms filling the octahedral sites between the former.

Within the MAX phase structure the MXlayers are chemically quite stable possibly owing to the strength of the M X bond. By comparison the A group atoms are the most reactive species reflective of their relatively weak binding. For example heating TiSiCin a C rich atmosphere or heating in molten cryolite or molten aluminum is known to result in the loss of Si and the formation of TiC. In the case of cryolite the vacancies that form lead to the formation of a partially ordered cubic TiCphase. In both cases the high temperatures lead to a structural transformation from a hexagonal to a cubic lattice and a partial loss of layering. In some cases such as TiInC simply heating in vacuum at ca. 800 C. results in loss of the A group element and TiCformation. Removing of both the M and A elements from MAX structure by high temperature chlorination results in a porous carbon known as carbide derived carbon with useful and unique properties.

By contrast the present methods surprisingly provide for the preparation of compositions comprising layers or stacked assemblies of at least one layer having first and second surfaces each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells each crystal cell deriving from the MXlayers of MAX phase compositions. These compositions are capable of free standing or can be organized into stacked assemblies of coated crystal layers.

As used herein the term removing substantially all of the A atoms from a MAX phase composition connotes embodiments wherein at least 50 atomic of the A atoms are removed from a finally recovered sample relative to the original MAX phase composition. In other more preferred independent embodiments more than about 60 atomic more than about 70 atomic more than about 80 atomic more than about 90 atomic more than about 95 atomic more than about 98 atomic and more than about 99 atomic of the A atoms are removed from a finally recovered sample relative to the original MAX phase composition.

Certain embodiments provide a process for removing these A atoms comprising treatment with an acid preferably a strong acid capable of reacting with the A atoms. Such acids may be organic or inorganic acids and may be applied in the gas or liquid phase provided the resulting A atom product can be removed from the lattice. In this regard strong acids which include fluorine atoms appear to be especially preferred. Aqueous hydrofluoric acid is among those acids which appear especially useful. Aqueous ammonium hydrogen fluoride NHF.HF is another more safely handled acid which may be useful in effecting removal of the A atom. Other alkali metal bifluoride salts i.e. QHF where Q is Li Na or K may also be useful for this purpose. Indeed even conditions which generate aqueous HF in situ for example using alkali metal fluoride salts e.g. NaF in the presence of mineral acids such as HCl or HNO have been shown to provide mixtures capable of effectively removing the A atom from MAX phase materials. The skilled artisan will also appreciate that any reactant known to react preferentially with the A atoms of a given MAX phase composition relative to the MXmay also be useful for example selective chelants. Uses of such reactants are considered within the scope of this invention.

The extraction of the A group layers may be done at room or even moderate temperature for example in the range of about 20 C. to about 800 C. preferably in temperature ranges wherein the lower temperature is about 20 C. about 25 C. about 30 C. about 40 C. about 50 C. about 60 C. about 80 C. about 100 C. about 200 C. or about 300 C. and wherein the upper temperature is about 600 C. about 500 C. about 400 C. about 300 C. about 250 C. about 200 C. about 150 C. about 100 C. about 80 C. or about 60 C. Exemplary examples of ranges include temperatures in the range of about 20 C. to about 100 C. about 20 C. to about 60 C. or about 30 C. to about 60 C. The extractions may be conducted using liquid or gas phase extraction methods. Gas phase reactions are generally to be done at the higher temperatures.

In further embodiments the chemically treated materials are subjected to sonication either using ultrasonic or mega sonic energy sources. This sonication may be applied during or after the chemical treatment.

One embodiment of the chemical exfoliation process for one representative material is diagrammatically illustrated in and described further below. In this example the treatment of TiAlCpowders for 2 h in aqueous HF resulted in the formation of exfoliated 2 D TiClayers. The term exfoliated refers to a process of delaminating the individual or multiple individual layers from the stacked assemblies see e.g. the second step illustrated in . The exposed Ti surfaces appear to be terminated by OH and or F see Examples below . While not intending to be bound by the correctness of any single theory or mechanism based on the experimental information provided below it appears that the following simplified reactions occur when TiAlCis immersed in aqueous HF TiAlC 3HF AlF 3 2H TiC 1 TiC 2HO TiC OH H 2 TiC 2HF TiCF H 3 

Reaction 1 appears to be a necessary step at least to the extent that it provides for the extraction of AlFin some form e.g. perhaps some soluble derivative such as HAlF followed or accompanied by reaction 2 and or 3 . Evidence consistent with the aforementioned reactions and that they result in the exfoliation of 2 D TiClayers with OH and or F surface groups is presented below. Reactions 2 and 3 are simplified in that they assume the terminations are OH or F respectively when in fact they may be a combination of both.

In other embodiments the exfoliation can be accomplished electrochemically. In various embodiments MAX phase materials are selectively exfoliated to form the corresponding MXene by the application of potentiostatic or galvanostatic polarization. See Example 9 below.

It should also be recognized that in addition to those embodiments described for the compositions provided above other embodiments provide for compositions provided by the methods of preparation described herein. For example those composition obtained from subjecting a MAX phase material to a chemical exfoliation process said exfoliation process comprising treatment with aqueous HF and sonication wherein a substantial portion of the A atoms are removed should also be considered within the scope of the present invention.

The following listing of embodiments is intended to complement rather than displace or supersede the previous descriptions.

each crystal cell having an empirical formula of MX such that each X is positioned within an octahedral array of M 

The composition of Embodiment 1 or 2 wherein M is at least one Group IVB Group VB or Group VIB metal.

The composition of any one of Embodiments 1 to 3 wherein MXcomprises ScC ScN TiC TiN MoC VC VN CrC CrN ZrC ZrN NbC NbN HfC HfN TiC TiN VC VC TaC TaN or TiC TiN VC VN TaC TaN or a combination thereof.

The composition of any one of Embodiments 1 to 11 wherein the layer is in the form of a plane a scroll or a tube.

The composition of any one of Embodiments 1 to 12 wherein at least one of said surfaces is coated with a coating comprising alkoxide carboxylate halide hydroxide hydride oxide sub oxide nitride sub nitride sulfide thiol or a combination thereof.

The composition of Embodiment 13 wherein the coating comprises hydrated or anhydrous oxide or sub oxide or combination thereof

The composition of Embodiment 1 the crystal cells having an empirical formula TiCor TiC and wherein at least one of said surfaces is coated with a coating comprising hydroxide oxide sub oxide or a combination thereof.

The composition of Embodiment 1 the crystal cells having an empirical formula TaCand wherein at least one of said surfaces is coated with a coating comprising hydroxide oxide sub oxide or a combination thereof.

The composition of any one of Embodiments 1 to 17 wherein the composition comprises an electrically conductive or semiconductive surface.

A polymer composite comprising an organic polymer and the composition of any one of Embodiments 1 to 18.

The copolymer composite of Embodiment 19 wherein the polymer composite is in a form having a configuration defined by a two dimensional plane wherein the organic polymer is oriented coincident with the plane of that planar configuration.

The polymer composite of Embodiment 19 or 20 wherein the substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells defines a plane and said plane is substantially aligned with the plane of the polymer composite.

The polymer composite of any one of Embodiments 19 to 21 wherein the flexural strength and or stiffness in the planar dimension of the polymer composite is greater than the flexural strength and or stiffness of a corresponding polymer composition without the composition of claim .

each crystal cell having the empirical formula of such that each X is positioned within an octahedral array of M 

The stacked assembly of Embodiment 23 wherein MXcomprises ScC ScN TiC TiN MoC VC VN CrC CrN ZrC ZrN NbC NbN HfC HfN TiC TiN VC VC TaC TaN or TiC TiN VC VN TaC TaN or a combination thereof.

The stacked assembly of Embodiment 23 wherein MXcomprises TiC TiN TiC TiN TiC TiN TaC TaN TaC or TaN or a combination thereof.

The stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 25 wherein MXcomprises TiC TiNbC NbC TiCN TiC TaC or VCr C.

The stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 29 wherein at least one of the surfaces has bound thereto alkoxide carboxylate halide hydroxide hydride oxide sub oxide nitride sub nitride sulfide thiol or a combination thereof.

The stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 30 wherein the number of layers is in the range of 2 to about 50.

The stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 29 wherein the average area of the layers is in the range of about 100 nmto about 10 000 nmor about 100 mto about 10 000 m.

The composition of any one of Embodiments 23 to 30 capable of intercalating atoms and or ions between at least some of the layers.

The stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 31 said assembly resulting from the deposition of delaminated flakes of the composition onto a surface.

The stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 34 said assembly exhibiting at least 65 tranparency to at least one wavelength of light in a range of from about 250 nm to about 850 nm and a surface resistivity of less than about 50 micro ohm meter.

The stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 35 wherein atoms ions or both atoms and ions of the same material are intercalated between at least some of the layers.

The stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 36 wherein the atoms ions or both atoms and ions of the same material comprise lithium sodium potassium magnesium or a combination thereof

The stacked assembly of Embodiment 37 wherein the atoms ions or both atoms and ions of the same material comprise or consist essentially of lithium.

The stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 38 further comprising a kaolinitic intercalator intercalated between at least some of the layers.

The stacked assembly of Embodiment 39 wherein the kaolinitic intercalator is hydrazine DMSO urea or N N dimethylformamide.

An energy storing device or electrode comprising the stacked assembly of any one of Embodiments 23 to 40.

removing substantially all of the A atoms from a MAX phase composition having an empirical formula of MAX.

thereby providing a composition comprising at least one layer having a first and second surface each layer comprising a substantially two dimensional array of crystal cells.

The method of Embodiment 42 wherein the A atoms are removed by a process comprising a treatment with a fluorine containing acid.

The method of Embodiment 43 wherein the fluorine containing acid comprises aqueous ammonium hydrogen fluoride NHF.HF NaHF or a mixture resulting from the combination of an alkali metal salt with a mineral acid.

The following Examples are provided to illustrate some of the concepts described within this disclosure. While each Example is considered to provide specific individual embodiments of composition methods of preparation and use none of the Examples should be considered to limit the more general embodiments described herein.

In the following examples efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used e.g. amounts temperature etc. but some experimental error and deviation should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise temperature is in degrees C. pressure is at or near atmospheric.

Powder of TiAlCwas prepared by ball milling TiAlC 92 wt. 3 ONE 2 Voorhees N.J. and TiC 99 Johnson Matthey Electronic NY powders in a 1 1 molar ratio for 24 h using zirconia balls. The mixture was heated to 1350 C. for 2 h under argon Ar. The resulting loosely held compact was crushed in a mortar and pestle. Roughly 10 g of powders are then immersed in 100 ml of a 50 concentrated hydrofluoric acid HF Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. solution at room temperature for 2 h. The resulting suspension was then washed several times using de ionized water and centrifuged to separate the powders. In some cases to align the flakes and produce free standing discs the treated powders were cold pressed at a load corresponding to a stress of about 1 GPa in a steel die.

X ray diffraction XRD patterns were obtained with a powder diffractometer Siemens D500 Germany using Cu Kradiation and a step scan of 0.02 and 1 s per step. Si powder was added to some samples as an internal standard. A scanning electron microscope SEM Zeiss Supra 50VP Germany was used to obtain high magnification images of the treated powders. Transmission electron microscopes TEMs JEOL JEM 2100F and JEM 2100 Japan FEI Tecnai G2 TF20UT FEG Netherlands operating at 200 kV were used to characterize the exfoliated powders. Chemical analysis in the TEM was carried out using an ultra thin window X ray energy dispersive spectrometer EDAX EDAX Mahwah N.J. . The TEM samples were prepared by deposition of the flakes from an isopropanol suspension on a lacey 200 mesh carbon coated copper grid. Raman spectroscopy of the cold pressed samples was carried out on a microspectrometer inVia Renishaw plc Gloucestershire UK using an Ar ion laser 514.5 nm and a grating with 1800 lines mm. This corresponds to a spectral resolution of 1.9 cmand a spot size of 0.7 m in the focal plane. X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS PHI 5000 ULVAC PHI Inc. Japan was used to analyze the surfaces of samples before and after exfoliation.

Theoretical calculations were performed by density functional theory DFT using the plane wave pseudo potential approach with ultrasoft pseudopotentials and Perdew Burke Ernzerhof PBE exchange Wu Cohen WC correlation functional as implemented in the CASTEP code in Material Studio software Version 4.5 . A 8 8 1 Monkhorst Pack grid and planewave basis set cutoff of 500 eV were used for the calculations. Exfoliation was modeled by first removing Al atoms from the TiAlClattice. Exposed Ti atoms located on the bottom and top of the remaining TiClayers were saturated by OH or F groups followed by full geometry optimization until all components of the residual forces became less than 0.01 eV . Equilibrium structures for exfoliated layers were determined by separating single TiClayers by a 1.2 nm thick vacuum space in a periodic supercell followed by the aforementioned full geometry optimization. Band structures of the optimized materials were calculated using a k point separation of 0.015 . The elastic properties of the 2 D structures were calculated by subjecting the optimized structure to various strains and calculating the resulting second derivatives of the energy density.

XRD spectra of the initial TiAlC TiC mixture after heating to 1350 C. for 2 h resulted in peaks that corresponded mainly to TiAlC bottom curve in . When the TiAlCpowders were placed into the HF solution bubbles believed to be H were observed suggesting a chemical reaction. Ultrasonication of the reaction products in methanol for 300 s resulted in significant weakening of the peaks and the appearance of an amorphous broad band around 24 top spectrum in . In other words exfoliation leads to a loss of diffraction signal in the out of plane direction and the non planar shape of the nanosheets results in broadening of peaks corresponding to in plane diffraction. When the same powders were cold pressed at 1 GPa into free standing 300 m thick and 25 mm diameter discs their XRD showed that most of the non basal plane peaks of TiAlC most notably the most intense peak at 39 disappear curve labeled HF etched in . On the other hand the 001 peaks such as the 002 004 and 010 broadened lost intensity and shifted to lower angles compared to their location before treatment. Using the Scherrer formula as described in B. D. Cullity Elements of X ray diffraction Addison Wesley 1978 which is incorporated by reference herein the average particle dimension in the 0001 direction after treatment is estimated to be 11 3 nm which corresponds to roughly ten TiC OH layers. To identify the peaks we simulated XRD patterns of hydroxylated viz. TiC OH curve labeled TiC OH in and fluorinated TiCF structures curved labeled as such in . Clearly both were in good agreement with the XRD patterns of the pressed sample curve labeled HF etched in the agreement was better with the former. The disappearance of the most intense diffraction peak of TiAlCat 39 and the good agreement between the simulated XRD spectra for TiC OH and the experimental results provides strong evidence of the formation of the latter. The presence of OH groups after treatment was confirmed by FTIR.

Further DFT geometry optimization of the hydroxylated and fluorinated structure resulted in 5 and 16 expansion of the original TiAlClattice respectively as observed. If Al were simply removed and not replaced by functional groups the DFT optimization caused the structure to contract by 19 which is not observed. The increase of the c lattice parameters upon reaction is thus strong evidence for the validity of reactions 2 3.

Raman spectra of TiAlC before and after HF treatment are shown in . Peaks II III and IV vanished after treatment while peaks VI and VII merged broadened and downshifted. Such downshifting has been observed in Raman spectra of very thin layers of inorganic layered compounds and is characteristic of such materials. See e.g. C. N. R. Rao et al. Science and Technology of Advanced Materials 2010 11 054502 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The line broadening and the spectral shifts in the Raman spectra are consistent with exfoliation and are in agreement with the broadened XRD profiles. In analogy with TiSiC see J. Spanier S. Gupta M. Amer M. W. Barsoum Physical Review B 2005 71 012103 which is also incorporated by reference herein peaks I to III in can be assigned to Al Ti vibrations while peaks V and VI involve only Ti C vibrations. The fact that only the latter two exist after etching confirms both the mode assignments but more importantly the loss of Al from the structure. Note that peaks V and VI are combined broadened and downshifted after reaction.

The Ti 2p XPS spectra before and after treatment are shown in . The C is and Ti 2p peaks before treatment match previous work on TiAlC. See e.g. S. Myhra et al. Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids 2001 62 811 which is incorporated by reference herein. The presence of Ti C and Ti 0 bonds was evident from both spectra indicating the formation of TiC OH after treatment. The Al and F peaks not shown were also observed and their concentrations were calculated to be around 3 at. and 12 at. respectively. Aluminum fluoride AlF a reaction product see below can probably account for most of the F signal seen in the spectra. The O 1s main signal not shown at 530.3 cm suggest the presence of OH group. See e.g. M. Schmidt S. G. Steinemann Fresenius Journal of Analytical Chemistry 1991 341 412 which is also incorporated by reference herein.

A SEM image of a 1500 mTiAlCparticle shows how the basal planes fan out and spread apart as a result of the HF treatment. EDAX of the particles showed them to be comprised of Ti C O and F with little or no Al. This implies that the Al layers were replaced by oxygen i.e. OH and or F. Note that the exfoliated particles maintained the pseudo ductility of TiAlCand could be easily cold press into freestanding disks . This property can prove crucial in some potential applications such as anodes for Li ion batteries as described above.

TEM analysis of exfoliated sheets shows them to be quite thin and transparent to electrons since the carbon grid is clearly seen below them. This fact strongly suggests a very thin foil especially considering the high atomic number of Ti. The corresponding selected area diffraction SAD inset in shows the hexagonal symmetry of the basal planes. EDAX of the same flake showed the presence of Ti C O and F. show cross sections of exfoliated single and double layer MXene sheets. show high resolution TEM micrographs and a simulated structure of two adjacent OH terminated TiCsheets respectively. The experimentally observed interplanar distances and angles are found to be in good agreement with the calculated structure. show stacked multilayer MXene sheets. The exfoliated layers can apparently also be rolled into conical shapes some are bent to radii of 

TaAlCpowder ca. 10 g was immersed in approximately 100 mL of a 50 concentrated hydrofluoric acid HF Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. solution at room temperature for 72 h. The resulting suspension was then washed several times using deionized water and centrifuged to separate the powders.

XRD analysis of the resulting material showed sharp peaks corresponding only to TaC known to be an impurity in the starting material i.e. in addition to peaks attributable to TaC the XRD spectrum contained only broad peaks centered around 20 values of ca. 6 and 34 36 . However the XRD spectrum of a sample obtained by cold pressing the resulting material showed strong albeit broadened peaks at about 2 5.7 and 6.8 apparently shifted from 2 7.5 in XRD of TaAlC smaller peaks at about 2 13 apparently shifted from 2 15 in XRD of TaAlC 26 and 29 and broad albeit low intensity peaks centered at about 2 27 30 and 36 none of which appear to correspond to TaC but which are interpreted as being consistent with simulated spectra of TaC OH . Compared with the XRD spectra of the original XRD spectrum of TaAlC and its an accompanying pattern simulated by CrystalMaker the XRD pattern of the cold pressed material also showed no evidence of otherwise distinguishing peaks at 2 22 29.5 .

TiAlC powder Kanthal Corp. Sweden was immersed in approximately 100 mL of a 10 concentrated hydrofluoric acid HF Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. solution at room temperature for 10 h. The resulting suspension was then washed several times using deionized water and centrifuged to separate the powders. SEM micrographs and XRD spectra of the resulting materials are shown in .

The TiNbAlC powders were made by mixing elemental titanium Ti Alfa Aesar Ward Hill USA 99.5 wt purity 325 mesh niobium Nb Atlantic Equipment Engineers Bergenfield USA 99.8 wt purity 325 mesh and the same Al and C used above in the molar ratio of 1 1 1.2 1 respectively in a ball mill for 12 h. The powders were then heated at the rate of 10 C. min in a tube furnace to 1500 C. for 1 h under flowing Ar. After cooling to room temperature powders were processed as described above see Table 1 . SEM micrographs and XRD spectra of the resulting materials are shown in .

The XRD patterns for TiNbAlC before and after HF treatment show that the intensity of the TiNbAlC peaks decreased significantly after HF treatment considering that 10 wt Si was used as an internal reference and a new broad peak at 11.8 2 appeared after cold pressing. Here again a shoulder at a larger d spacing compared to the main peak is observed. The latter is most likely due to some exfoliated Ti Nb AlCthat was present as a second phase in the starting powder. SEM micrographs clearly show exfoliated TiNbAlC particles. TEM micrographs after sonication not shown show thin sheets composed of Ti Nb C O and F in an atomic ratio that EDX shows to be 14 16 23 34 13 respectively. HRTEM of a TiNbC layer not shown and its corresponding SAED again show hexagonal symmetry. At 0.2606 nm the perpendicular separation of the 1010 lattice planes results in an a lattice constant of 0.301 nm. EELS for TiNbAlC after HF treatment and confirms the presence of Ti Nb C F not shown and O but no Al.

 VCr AlCpowder was made by ball milling powders of 1.5V 1.5Cr 1.2Al 2C molar ratios for 12 hours then heating the mixture under Ar to 1550 C. soaking at this temperature for 2 hours and cooling to room temperature after which a powder was obtained from the sintered mass using diamond coated milling bit. The powders were then exfoliated by stirring them in 50 aqueous HF at room temperature for 65 hr 5 gm powder in 50 mL acid . SEM micrographs and XRD spectra of the resulting materials are shown in .

TiAl CN powder was prepared was made by ball milling Ti AlN C 3 1 1 molar ratios for 12 hours then heating the mixture at 10 C. min to 1500 C. holding 2 hours then cooling all under Argon C and Ti powders were purchased from Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. . AN powder was purchased from Sigma Aldrich. The resulting material was crushed using mortar and pestle. The resulting powder was immersed and stirred in 30 concentrated hydrofluoric acid HF Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. solution at room temperature for 18 h. The resulting suspension was then washed several times using deionized water and centrifuged to separate the powders. SEM micrographs and XRD spectra of the resulting materials are shown in .

Starting with TiAlCpowders as a representative material a series of experiments were conducted to determine the effects of various process parameters on the chemical exfoliation of MAX phase materials to form the corresponding MXene compositions. In evaluating the effect of temperature on exfoliation TiAlCpowders were stirred in 50 aqueous HF for 2 hours at different temperatures e.g. 20 30 40 50 and 65 C. . The effect of processing time was studied by stirring TiAlCpowders with 50 aqueous HF for 2 hours at room temperature over the time range of 2 to 19 hours. In testing the effect of initial particle size TiAlCpowders were crushed in ball milling machine and separated with sieves first then exfoliated by stirring with 50 aqueous HF at room temperature for 2 hours. illustrate the effect of HF temperature time of treatment and initial particle size respectively. The specific conditions employed where different than those described above are provided in each figure.

TiSnC was made by ball milling 2Ti Sn C molar ratios for 12 hr then heating the mixture at a ramp rate of 10 C. minute to 1250 C. holding for 2 hours and cooling to room temperature all under Ar atmosphere. The resulting material was crushed using mortar and pestle to form a powder Ti Sn and C powders were purchased from Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. . Exfoliation of TiSnC was demonstrated by selectively electrochemically removing Sn upon application of a repeated sequence composed of a short cathodic polarization either potentiostatic or galvanostatic followed by a long anodic polarization either potentiostatic or galvanostatic to an electrochemical system see for a representative set of conditions SWPP square wave potential polarization SWCP square wave current polarization. mrefers to the loss in sample weight as a result of the electrochemical treatment . In this system a hot pressed sample of TiSnC was used as the anode and Pt was used as the reference and working electrode. The electrolyte was either aqueous 5 M or 12 M HCl and high purity Ar gas was constantly purged through the working solution to maintain an inert atmosphere.

The rapid electrochemical corrosion of the anode material resulted in the formation of a finely dispersed powder which was collected at the bottom of the reaction vessel washed with deionized water and dried. The dried powder was subjected to a series of tests the results of which are shown in . shows the dramatic difference in Raman spectra between the product curves a and b and the starting material curves c e consistent with the changes seen in other similar transformations compare for example the curves in . Similarly changes in the XRD spectra are indicative of the absence of starting material. Finally EDX spectra shown in A C show that the powder is devoid of appreciable Sn confirming its elimination Note the presence of O in these EDX spectra is consistent with a surface coating of the MXene comprising oxide or hydroxide. The presence of Si in the spectra is attributed to the substrate used in the measurement.

The electrochemical behavior of MXene compositions exfoliated MX phase compositions was compared to the corresponding MAX phase material in lithium ion battery tests. The electrolyte used was a mixture of ethylene carbonate and dimethyl carbonate EC DMC with lithium hexafluorophosphate LiPF . After cell assembly inside a glove box both Galvanostatic GV and Cyclic Voltammetry CV tests were used to study the electrochemical behavior of MAX phases in Li batteries. These electrochemical tests were carried out using a BioLogic VMP 4 potentiostat galvanostat. Electrodes were prepared using MAX phase and MXene compositions in a number of electrode configurations including a cold pressed electrode with neither binder nor carbon black b film of powder on copper foil with binder and without carbon black c film f powder on copper foil with binder and carbon black and d film of carbon black alone with a polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF binder. CV and GV techniques were used to characterize the electrochemical nature of the resulting electrodes cells. A B shows the results where the performance of electrodes prepared using carbon black CB and binder comparing the additional presence of TiAlCand exfoliated TiAlC i.e. MXene TiC OH F . As shown in the capacity of the MXene containing compositions showed significantly higher capacity an order of magnitude higher than a comparable electrode made from the corresponding MAX phase material. It is known that lithium capacity in MAX phase materials is extremely low owing to the lack of space between the layers into which ions may migrate. The significant increase in capacity with the electrodes containing the MXene composition results are consistent with the migration intercalation of lithium within the stacked layers of MXene

Testing comparable to that described in Example 10 with TiC derived from TiAlC was also done with TiC derived from TiAlC. As described below testing demonstrated the insertion of Li into a new two dimensional 2 D layered TiC based material MXene with an oxidized surface formed by etching Al from TiAlC in HF at room temperature. Nitrogen sorption of treated powders showed desorption hysteresis consistent with the presence of slit like pores. At 23 m g the specific surface area was an order of magnitude higher than untreated TiAlC. Cyclic voltammetry exhibited lithiation and delithiation peaks at 1.6 V and 2 V vs. Li Li respectively. At C 25 the steady state capacity was 225 mAh g at 1 C it was 110 mAh gafter 80 cycles at 3 C it was 80 mAh gafter 120 cycles at 10 C it was 70 mAh gafter 200 cycles.

Pre reacted 325 mesh TiAlC powders were commercially obtained 3 ONE 2 Voorhees N.J. 92 wt. purity . The exfoliation process was carried by immersing the TiAlC powder in diluted 10 hydrofluoric acid HF Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. for 10 h at room temperature as described above. The materials were characterized by SEM Zeiss Supra 50VP Germany EDS Oxford X Sight Oxfordshire UK and gas sorption analysis Quantachrome Autosorb 1 with Nadsorbate as described above i.e. samples were outgassed under vacuum at 200 C. for 48 h. Nitrogen sorption analysis at 77 K was used for calculating the specific surface area SSA using the Brunauer Emmet Teller BET equation .

X ray diffraction XRD of the reacted powders indicated that the Al was selectively etched from the structure. EDS confirmed that the Al layers were replaced by O and F. SEM images of TiAlC particles after HF treatment resemble images of exfoliated graphite and clearly show HF induced delamination that are typical of MXenes.

The Nsorption isotherm of the treated powders has a hysteresis loop with indications of the presence of mesopores and a shape typical for slit pores. The SSA calculated using the BET equation for the HF treated TiAlC was 23 m g. This value is about an order of magnitude times higher than the as received TiAlC powders measured at 2.5 m g.

The electrochemical behavior of exfoliated TiAlC in Li batteries was investigated using coin cells CR 2016 prepared as follows. The working electrodes were made with 80 wt TiC as described above and 10 wt. Super P carbon black mixed with 10 wt. Poly vinylidene fluoride dissolved in 1 Methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. The mixture was then spread onto a copper foil and dried at ca. 200 C. for 12 h under a mechanical vacuum. CR 2016 coin type cells were assembled using MXene as the positive electrode and Li metal foil as the negative electrode separated by a sheet of borosilicate glass fiber Whatman GF A separator saturated with 1 M LiPFsolution in a 1 1 weight mixture of ethylene carbonate and diethyl carbonate EC DEC as the electrolyte. The cells were assembled inside an Ar filled glove box with HO and Ocontents 

The cells were subjected to cyclic voltammetry and galvanostatic charge discharge cycling using a potentiostat VMP4 Biologic S.A. . Electrochemical characterization was typically performed between 0.05 V and 2.5 V vs. Li Li.

Typical cyclic voltammetry curves at a rate of 0.2 mV s for the exfoliated TiC are shown in . A broad irreversible peak was observed around 0.6 V during the first lithiation cycle reduction it was absent in subsequent cycles. This irreversible peak was assigned to the formation of a solid electrolyte interphase SEI and to an irreversible reaction with the electrode material. In all subsequent cycles broad reversible peaks were observed at 1.6 V and 2.0 V vs. Li Li during lithiation and de lithiation respectively. Because these peak potentials are similar to those reported for TiOand lithiated titania these peaks were tentatively assigned to the following redox reaction TiCOLiHLiTiCO 1 

The rationale for this assignment is that drying at 200 C. prior to assembling the coin cells rids MXene of water or any OH species and leads to an oxygen terminated surface. In other words the assumption is made that the TiCOsurface is similar to that of titania. Like in the case of the titanates even if the potentials vs. Li are relatively high it is an advantage from a safety stand point. Ex situ XRD results not shown after lithiation produced no new peaks but a downshift of the MXene peaks was observed with an increase of the c parameter by 19.5 which indicates intercalation of Li between the MXene layers and not a conversion reaction.

At 160 mAh g the capacity of the treated powders is about 5 times higher than that of the as received TiAlC ca. 30 mAh gat C 10 powders. This increase in capacity is traceable to the higher surface area more open structure and weaker bonds between the MX layers after HF treatment. In addition to the morphological changes the Li insertion sites are also now different i.e. the site binding energies which could also explain the differences in capacity.

The specific capacities vs. cycle number at different cycling rates C 25 C 6 1 C 3 C and 10 C calculated from galvanostatic curves are shown in . The highest capacity was obtained at a rate of C 25. The specific capacity values stabilize after 5 cycles for all scan rates. At a C 25 rate the capacity is 225 mAh g which corresponds to y 1. At rates of 1 C and 3 C the capacities after 80 cycles were respectively 110 mAh gand 80 mAh g. Even at rates of 10 C a stable capacity of 70 mAh gwas obtained for more than 200 cycles. These results clearly demonstrate that it is possible to stably electrochemically intercalate Li ions in the interlayer spaces between exfoliated TiC sheets and achieve stability.

The exfoliated TiC produced by HF treatment of TiAlC powders showed reversible capacity about 5 times higher than pristine TiAlC due to its open structure weaker interlaminar forces and higher SSA. Electrochemical measurements showed intercalation and deintercalation of Li ions at 1.6 V and 2 V vs. Li Li respectively. The exfoliated TiC material exhibited a stable capacity of 225 mAh gat a C 25 rate corresponding to about one Li per TiCOformula unit. A stable cycling capacity of 80 mAh gwas observed after 120 cycles at a 3 C rate and 70 mAh gwas observed after 200 cycles at a 10 C rate.

Similar experiments with TiCN TiNbC NbC VC and TaChave also shown that these materials can also be intercalated with Li and used in lithium ion batteries.

To explore the feasibility of using NbCTand VCTas electrodes in lithium ion batteries LIBs cyclic voltammetry CV and galvanostatic charge discharge cycling GV were carried out. The CV curves for NbCTshowed no significant lithiation and delithiation capacity at voltages higher than 2.5 V. Hence the GV for NbCTwas carried out between 0 and 2.5 V against Li Li. The voltage profile for NbCTat 1 C cycling rate yielded a first cycle capacity of 422 mA h g. The second cycle capacity was about 250 mA h g. Without intending to be bound by the correctness of any particular theory the reason for the first cycle irreversibility could be due to solid electrolyte interphase SEI formation or due to irreversible reaction of Li with the surface groups and or water molecules in the as synthesized MXene. In principle this irreversibility could be minimized by controlling the surface chemistry of MXene or by prelithiating the electrode material. After 100 cycles a reversible capacity of 170 mA h gwas obtained.

Because the CV for VCTshowed a large capacity close to 3 V this material was tested between 0 and 3 V against Li Li. The first cycle capacity was found to be 380 mA h gand the reversible capacity 210 mA h g. Intriguingly the VCT produced by etching attrition milled VAlC showed 30 enhancement in Li uptake compared to VCTproduced from unmilled VAlC. This might be explained by the decreased particle size facilitating Li diffusion between the layers. A reversible capacity of 288 mA h gwas obtained instead of 210 mA h gat the same cycling rate of 1 C after 50 cycles. A reversible capacity of 260 mA h gwas obtained for the VCT produced by etching attrition milled VAlC after 150 cycles.

More than of the reversible lithiation capacity for NbCTwas below 1 V while for both TiCand TiC the capacities below 1 V were about of the reversible capacity. Conversely in the case of VCT less than of the reversible lithiation capacity is below 1 V and more than of the delithiation capacity is at voltages higher than 1.5 V. This is an important finding since it shows that each MXene has its own active voltage window. With the variety of possible MXenes chemistries selection of an optimum MXene for a required voltage window can in principle be achieved. That is some MXenes could function better as anodes while others could in principle be used as cathode materials for lithium ion batteriess. Both NbCTand VCT produced by HF treatment of attrition milled VAlC powders at RT for 8 h were shown to be capable of handling high cycling rates. At 10 C. capacities of 110 mA h gfor NbCTand 125 mA h gfor VCTwere obtained after 150 cycles. These values were much higher than what was reported for commercial graphite when charged and discharged at 10 C. graphite loses more than 80 of its theoretical capacity at 10 C. . The high rate capability could be explained by the low Li diffusion barrier in Mxenes. The coulombic efficiency at the reversible capacity was about 99.6 for NbCTat 10 C. For VCT the coulombic efficiency varied between 98 and 100 . Although the reversible capacity of MXenes at high cycling rates i.e. 10 C. was comparable to titania based anodes the latter have maximum theoretical capacities of the order of 170 mA h geven at slow scan rates while VCT produced from milled VAlC has a reversible capacity of 260 mA h gat 1 C. The results obtained herein were obtained on just synthesized and not well purified compounds and should thus be considered quite preliminary. The higher rate performances however were encouraging and suggest that NbCTand VCTcan be used as promising electrode materials in lithium ion batteries especially for high power applications. For example the Li capacities of additives free fully delaminated TiCTelectrodes were roughly 4 times those of nondelaminated TiCT.

The examples provided herein for the intercalation of various ions use TiCTas a convenient template for investigation. It should be appreciated that the results described herein are expected to be reproducible with other MXene materials and embodiments include those wherein the intercalation is described more generally with respect to these other MXene materials. That is other specific embodiments include the other MXene materials described herein intercalated with the ions described herein and the articles derived from such intercalated materials.

TiCT where Tstands for surface termination such as OH O or F bonded to Ti atoms was synthesized by exfoliating the corresponding MAX phases with A element etched away. TiAlCpowder with particle size less than 38 m was treated with 50 aqueous HF solution Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. at room temperature RT for 18 h. The resulting suspensions were washed six to seven times using deionized water and separated from remaining HF by centrifuging until the pH of the liquid reached around 5. The wet sediment was moved to a wide mouth jar by ethanol and dried in air for 3 to 4 days. Then the obtained TiCTwas placed into capped glass vials and stored at ambient conditions for further experiments.

Electrodes were prepared by mechanical processing of the pre mixed slurry containing ethanol 190 proof Decon Laboratories Inc. TiCTpowder polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE binder 60 wt. in HO Aldrich and onion like carbon OLC 28 which was added to create a conductive network in between the particles MXene is anisotropic good in sheet conductivity poor conductivity between the sheets . Resulting electrodes which were used for all experiments contained 85 wt. of the TiCT 10 wt. of OLC 5 wt. of PTFE and had thickness of 75 100 m and mass density per unit area of 7 9 mg cm2. 1 

To intercalate TiCT 0.15 g of the powder was suspended in 5 ml of 30 wt. aqueous solution of potassium hydroxide potassium acetate lithium acetate sodium acetate sodium formate sodium citrate and zinc sulfate 25 20 and 10 wt. aqueous solution of magnesium sulfate sodium sulfate and potassium sulfate respectively 30 aqueous solutions of acetic acid sulfuric acid and ammonium hydroxide. Then the mixtures were stirred for 24 h with a magnetic stirrer at room temperature RT. Afterwards the resulting colloidal solutions were filtered through a polyester membrane 25 mm diameter 3 m pore size Osmonics Inc. Minnetonka Minn. USA and dried in a desiccator under vacuum 

To obtain few layer TiCT multilayered TiCTwas stirred with dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO for 18 h at room temperature then the colloidal suspension was centrifuged to separate the intercalated powder from the liquid DMSO. After decantation of the supernatant deionized water was added to the residue in a weight ratio of MXene to water of 1 500. Then the suspension was sonicated under Ar for 4 h and centrifuged for 1 h with 3500 rpm. At last the supernatant was decantated and filtered using a porous MF millipore mixed cellulose ester membrane filter 47 mm diameter 0.025 m pore size Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. USA and dried in a desiccator under vacuum 

The following ionic compounds were used for intercalation into TiCT potassium hydroxide 85.0 Fisher Chemical Fair Lawn N.J. USA potassium sulfate certified ACS crystalline Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. USA potassium acetate ACS reagent grade MP Biomedicals LLC Solon Ohio USA lithium acetate anhydrous 99 Acros Organics Fair Lawn N.J. USA sodium acetate anhydrous 99.0 Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. USA sodium formate 99.0 Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. USA sodium citrate tribasic dehydrate 98 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. USA sodium sulfate anhydrous 99.7 Acros Organics Fair Lawn N.J. USA magnesium sulfate 99.5 Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. USA zinc sulfate heptahydrate 99.0 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. USA . Ammonium hydroxide 28 30 wt. in water Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. USA acetic acid 99.8 Acros Organics Fair Lawn N.J. USA and sulfuric acid 50 Ricca Chemical Company Arlington Tex. USA were also used as intercalants.

The following salts were used as electrolytes in electrochemical experiments potassium hydroxide 85.0 Fisher Chemical Fair Lawn N.J. USA potassium sulfate certified ACS crystalline Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. USA sodium acetate anhydrous 99.0 Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. USA sodium hydroxide 98 Alfa Aesar Shore Road Heysham Lancs UK sodium nitrate 99 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. USA magnesium nitrate hexahydrate 99 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. USA magnesium sulfate 99.5 Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. USA aluminum sulfate hydrate 98.0 Fluka St. Louis Mo. USA ammonium sulfate 99.0 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. USA and lithium sulfate 98.5 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. USA .

Activated carbon film electrodes were prepared following the same procedure as for the TiCTelectrodes but without any conductive additive. Resulting AC electrodes composition was 95 wt. of YP 50 activated carbon Kuraray Japan and 5 wt. of the PTFE. They had thickness of 100 150 m and mass density per unit area of 10 25 mg cm.

All electrochemical measurements were performed in 3 electrode Swagelok cells where MXene served as working electrode over capacitive activated carbon films were used as counter electrode and Ag AgCl in 1 M KCl as a reference in order to precisely control electrochemical potentials.

Cyclic voltammetry electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and galvanostatic cycling were performed using a VMP3 potentiostat Biologic France .

Cyclic voltammetry was performed using scan rates from 1 mV s to 1000 mV s. Diapasons of cycling were chosen using the following principles 

2 Minimum potential was chosen by subsequent CV series with increasing lower limit with the end at the lower limit minimum potential at which no electrolyte decomposition was observed.

The reason for choosing OCP as upper limit is to avoid oxidation of the material in aqueous electrolytes which would lead to higher resistance and lower resulting capacitance see .

Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy EIS was performed at open circuit potential with a 10 mV amplitude between 10 mHz and 200 kHz.

Galvanostatic cycling was performed at 0.1 and 1 A g with potential limits selected specifically for each electrolyte from 0.5 to 1 V vs. Ag AgCl for 1 M KCl from 0 to 0.7 V vs. Ag AgCl for 1 M MgSOand 1 M NaOAc.

X Ray diffraction patterns were recorded with a powder diffractometer Rigaku SmartLab using Cu K radiation 1.54 with 0.01 2 steps and 6 s dwelling time. Scanning electron microscopy SEM and energy dispersive X ray spectroscopy EDX analysis were performed on Zeiss Supra 50 VP Carl Zeiss SMT AG Oberkochen Germany .

XRD patterns of the TiCTelectrodes were collected on a Brucker D8 diffractometer using a Cu K radiation 1.5406 in the range 2 5 20 with a step of 0.02 . The sample was placed in a 2 electrode Swagelok type cell and covered with a Mylar window to avoid electrolyte evaporation allowing in situ XRD recording cell from LRCS Amiens University . A MXene film a mixture of 90 TiCT 5 PTFE and 5 carbon black served as the working electrode and was pressed on a nickel foam current collector and dried at 120 C. Over capacitive activated carbon films were used as counter electrode. Cyclic voltammetry advanced technique was used in order to control the cell potential. The scans were recorded each 0.2 V after linear sweep at 1 mV s.

Theoretical specific surface area calculations for TiC OH and estimation of the number of layers in multilayer exfoliated TiCTand few layer TiCT 

Each layer in the cell has 3 Ti 2 C 2 O and 2 H. Then the weight of the layer in the cell 201.64 g mole 6.023Eatoms mole 3.3478E 22 g. The SSA 8.1 10 3.3478 10 241.97 m g one side . Then the SSA of a Single layer 2 sides of TiC OH will be 483.94 m g.

For stacked TiCT experimental SSA calculated from nitrogen sorption is 23 m g which translated to ca. 21 layers in an average MXene lamella.

Calculations of volumetric power and energy densities of electrode and cell F cm 0.5 3600 Wh cm 3600 W cm 

where C normalized capacitance F cm j current density A cm s scan rate V s voltage window V similarly calculations of the gravimetric properties was performed but gravimetric capacitance and current density were used instead.

A large number of salts bases and acids were explored under conditions described in the Schematic of . See also Table 2.

X ray diffraction XRD patterns showed that after placing the TiCTin various salt solutions A to C there was a downshift in the 0002 peak position. This downshift shows that in all cases there was an increase in the c lattice parameter. For example the c value of TiCTincreased from 20.3 to as much as 25.4 when placed in potassium hydroxide KOH and ammonium hydroxide NHOH solutions . In addition to the compounds listed in A to C other salts intercalated spontaneously when the MXene powders were immersed in sodium carbonate NaCO sodium hydroxide NaOH or lithium hydroxide LiOH solutions.

Not all salts behaved similarly. In the case of high pH solutions such as KOH NHOH NaOH LiOH and several others Table 2 the changes in the interplanar spacing were large . Conversely close to neutral solutions such as sodium potasium and magnesium sulfates resulted in smaller changes in c see also Table 2 . No shift in the 0002 peak positions was observed when TiCTwas immersed in acetic or sulfuric acid.

To shed light on whether the cations or anions intercalated the TiCTlayers three sodium salts with differing anion radii were tested. The results showed that the c axis expansions were comparable and independent of anion radii. Furthermore energy dispersive x ray spectroscopy analysis of TiCTafter treatment in the different sulfate salts confirmed the presence of the cations sulfur was not detected Table 3 confirming that it is the cations that intercalate between the TiCTlayers.

Materials with large specific surface area are typically needed to obtain large capacitances in carbon materials for EDLCs. However at 23 m g the surface area of multilayer exfoliated TiCTwas low. It follows that if double layer capacitance were the only operative mechanism one would have expected the capacitance for this material to be less than that of for example activated graphene by a factor of 100. However as noted above intercalation capacitance can by far exceed double layer capacitances calculated solely on the basis of a material s surface area. To test this idea fabricated multilayer TiCTelectrodes were made and tested in NaOH KOH and LiOH containing electrolytes using a standard three electrode asymmetrical setup with an Ag AgCl reference electrode . The resulting cyclic voltammograms CVs are shown in see for the corresponding electrochemical impedance spectroscopy EIS results . The rectangular shaped CVs indicate capacitive behavior in these basic solutions. Note that in all experiments the open circuit potential OCP was taken as the starting potential for the CV scans because 0.1 V above this potential TiCToxidation is observed in aqueous electrolytes see .

To study the effect of a cation s valence on the electrochemical performance of multilayer exfoliated TiCTelectrodes CV scans were taken in 1M solutions of potassium and aluminum sulfates and nitrates and . Clearly the responses in the K and Al containing solutions were distinctively different confirming once again that the cations and not the anions are intercalating. The CV plots for KSOwere almost perfectly rectangular. Conversely the CV data for the more acidic see Table 4 and less conductive Al SO electrolyte yielded capacitance values that were significantly lower and the shape of the CVat 10 mV s and the EIS results showed a higher resistance and . To ensure that lower electrolyte conductivity did not limit the capacitive performance TiCTwas tested in 1 M Al NO which had a conductivity similar to that of 1 M KSO Table 4 . Although the normalized capacitance did not increase appreciably the CV loops were definitely more rectangular demonstrating the role of electrolyte conductivity.

Further evidence for cation intercalation and its beneficial effect on capacitance comes from the observation that for some electrolytes time was needed to reach a steady state or maximum capacitance. For strongly basic electrolytes Table 3 such as KOH solutions the rectangular CV plots were observed almost immediately and the capacitances did not change with time or cycle number. For other electrolytes however there was a slow and gradual increase in capacitance with time. For example for salts such as MgSO the CV area increased steadily with time and the maximum capacity was reached only after 48 hours see and . Unlike what is observed for graphite there was no irreversible capacitance loss during the first cycle for any of the electrolytes studied.

The performance of the multilayer TiCTin all tested electrolytes is summarized in . The specific capacitances were calculated by integrating the discharge portions of the CV plots. The results clearly showed responses that depended on the electrolytes used. Moreover the calculated capacitances were quite high for a material with such low surface area.

In situ XRD studies of the intercalation process during cycling showed that electrochemical cycling led to insignificant changes in the c values. For example when a TiCTelectrode was cycled in a KOH containing electrolyte the c values fluctuated within 0.33 as the potential was scanned from 1 to 0.2 V . Interestingly a slight shrinkage in c values was observed with increasing voltage. Similar behavior was observed when TiCTwas cycled in NaOAc containing electrolyte . Without being bound by the correctness of any particular theory one explanation for this observation was that the positively charged ions incorporated in TiCTincreased the electrostatic attraction between layers in a manner analogous to what was observed for MnOin other systems. When TiCTwas electrochemically cycled in a MgSO containing solution the shift of the 0002 peak almost doubled relative to the KOH and NaOAc electrolytes compare and . Here again a slight shrinkage in c values was observed with increasing voltage.

To gain further insight into the capacitances and what influences them MXene paper produced by filtering delaminated TiCTwas tested. This paper with a specific surface area of 98 m g was flexible hydrophilic additive free and conductive. When tested in KOH the CVs were rectangular similar to those obtained when multilayer TiCTpowder was used compare to . Furthermore the EIS results indicated that the TiCTpaper based capacitors were less resistive than those made with multilayer TiCT FIG. A . This improved electrochemical response can be related to a number of factors such as the absence of a binder in the system good contact between the restacked flakes in the paper increased accessibility of the structure and thinner electrodes.

As shown in the use of TiCTpaper electrodes instead of multilayer exfoliated TiCTin some electrolytes e.g. KOH and NaOAc roughly doubled the gravimetric capacitance see for more information about the performance of TiCTpaper in NaOAc and MgSO . Further the volumetric capacitance values recorded for few layer TiCTwere on the order of 340 F cmfor KOH and . Those values are much higher than those found for activated graphene 60 to 100 F cm or micrometer thin carbide derived carbon electrodes 180 F cm . A capacitance retention test performed by galvanostatic cycling at 1 A g showed almost no degradation in performance after 10 000 cycles .

The examples provided herein for the intercalation of various ions use TiCTas a convenient template for investigation. It should be appreciated that the results described herein are expected to be reproducible with other MXene materials and separate embodiments include those wherein the intercalation is also described with respect to these other MXene materials. That is other specific embodiments include the other MXene materials described herein intercalated with the materials described herein and the articles derived from such intercalated materials.

The following chemicals were used in this Example titanium aluminum carbide 211 TiAlC 92 wt. purity 3 ONE 2 Voorhees USA titanium carbide TiC 99 wt. purity Johnson Matthey Electronic New York USA hydrofluoric acid HF 48 51 wt. Acros Organics Morris Plains USA hydrazine monohydrate HM NH.HO 98.0 wt. purity TCI America Portland USA N N dimethylformamide DMF 99 wt. Acros Organics Morris Plains USA dimethylsulfoxide DMSO m.w. 78.13 MP Biomedical Inc. Solon USA urea Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn USA acetone 99 wt. Acros Organics Morris Plains USA ethyl alcohol Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn USA tetrahydrofuran THF 99 wt. Acros Organics Morris Plains USA chloroform 99.8 wt. stabilized in 0.5 1 ethanol Sigma Aldrich St. Louis USA toluene f.w. 92.14 Fisher Chemical Fair Lawn USA hexane 99 wt. Reagent Plus Sigma Aldrich St. Louis USA thiophene 99 wt. Sigma Aldrich St. Louis USA formaldehyde 37 w w Fisher Chemical Fair Lawn USA . All chemicals were used as received without further purification.

X ray diffraction XRD patterns were recorded with a powder diffractometer Siemens D500 Germany using Cu Kradiation with a wavelength 1.54 with 0.02 2 steps and 1 sec dwelling time. A scanning electron microscope SEM Zeiss Supra 50VP Germany was used to obtain images of the particles. The 2 D sheets were also imaged with a transmission electron microscope TEM JEOL JEM 2100 Japan using an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. The TEM samples were prepared by suspending the powders in isopropanol sonicating for 1 min and drying a drop of the mixture on a 200 mesh lacey carbon coated copper grid. An XPS PHI 5000 ULVAC PHI Inc. Japan was used to analyze the surface elemental composition powders before and after intercalation. The resistances of freestanding cold pressed discs of non intercalated and intercalated MXenes were measured using a four probe technique Cascade Probe Station CPS 1303 24 with 4 point probe head Alessi C4S 57 Cascade Microtech Inc. Beaverton USA . A detailed experimental section materials used and techniques of material preparation can be found in the Supplementary Information.

The TiAlCpowder was synthesized from a mixture of TiAlC with TiC in a 1 1 molar ratio. The mixture was ball milled for 24 h heated at 10 C. min to 1350 C. in a tube furnace under Ar flow and held in these conditions for 2 h. After cooling the lightly sintered brick was crushed using a mortar and pestle.

Synthesis of MXene. Non sieved TiAlCpowder was treated with HF solutions at room temperature RT for 22 h. The resulting suspensions were washed five times using deionized water and centrifuged to separate the powder until pH reached 4. The resulting black powder was divided into two portions. A small part of still wet material was used immediately for intercalation. The rest was dried under vacuum at 100 C. for 22 h placed into capped glass vials and stored at ambient conditions for further experiments.

To intercalate MXene hydrazine monohydrate HM was used. Two types of powders were used i as received washed wet MXene and ii type i powder dried at 100 C. for 22 h. The MXene powders were suspended either in HM or a 1 3 mixture of HM and DMF and stirred for 24 h with a magnetic stirrer either at RT or at 80 C.

In all cases the weight ratio of HM MXene was 10 1. When the treatment involved only hydrazine monohydrate the suspensions were filtered and washed with ethanol. In the case of the mixture of HM and DMF DMF was used for washing instead of ethanol. The powders were then dried in a desiccator under vacuum created by a water jet pump the pressure in the desiccator was 

Other organic compounds were also tried for intercalation into MXene. Those included DMSO urea DMF acetone ethyl alcohol THF chloroform toluene thiophene and formaldehyde. The procedure to synthesize the MXene intercalation compounds was the same in all cases i 9 weighted samples of TiC 0.3 g each were mixed with 5 ml of each organic solvent excluding urea then stirred for 24 h at RT ii in case of urea 5 ml of 50 wt. aqueous solution of urea was added to 0.3 g of TiCand stirred for 24 h at 60 C. Afterwards the resulting colloidal solutions were filtered and dried in a desiccator under vacuum at RT.

To de intercalate hydrazine DMF the reacted powder was carefully weighed placed in a graphite crucible and outgassed at RT in vacuum 10Torr for 24 h. While under vacuum the powder was then heated to 200 C. at 10 C. min held at this temperature for 72 h and cooled to RT. The powder remained under vacuum for another 48 h before it was retrieved. Between its removal from the furnace and re weighing the sample was exposed to ambient air for 3 min.

The non intercalated and intercalated MXene powders were cold pressed to a load corresponding to a stress of 0.8 GPa using manual hydraulic pellet press Carver Model 4350.L Carver Inc. Wabash USA . The resulting discs were 12.5 mm in diameter and in the range of 228 432 m thick.

Consistent with the apparent layered structure of MXene materials their intercalation behaviors appear to resemble that of clays. Numerous compounds were studied for clay intercalation such as formamide and its derivatives dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO urea alkali metal salts long chain alkylamines and others. Hydrazine monohydrate HM or NH HO is probably the most common intercalation agent for clays. It intercalates into the interlayer space between the octahedral aluminum hydroxide and tetrahedral silica sheets resulting in an expansion of the clay c lattice parameter c LP along 0001 from 7.2 to 10.3 10.4 . As shown below the intercalation of hydrazine and co intercalation with DMF between the TiClayers also resulted in an increase of the c lattice parameter in this case from 19.5 to 25.48 and 26.80 respectively. Partial de intercalation of hydrazine occurred by heating the intercalated TiCat 120 C. in vacuum and de intercalation of both hydrazine and DMF at 200 C. Comparison of molecular dynamics simulation and experimental results suggested that a nearly complete monolayer of hydrazine is inserted between the TiClayers of the host. Intercalation of TiCwith urea and dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO as well as intercalation of TiCN and TiNbC with hydrazine and DMSO demonstrated in this study suggest a possibility of synthesis of dozens of new intercalation compounds based on carbides and carbonitrides of transition metals.

The schematic of intercalation of HM into the MXene is shown in . The 001 X ray diffraction XRD peaks of MXene most pronounced before intercalation with HM and or DMF were still present after intercalation but shifted to lower 2 angles . Table 5 summarizes the c LPs values for the HM and HM in DMF treated materials. The c LP of the initial material was 19.5 0.1 a value that does not change much with post intercalation treatment. After the initial powder was exposed to HM and HM in DMF at 80 C. for 24 h the c LPs increased to 25.48 0.02 and 26.8 0.1 respectively. The larger c LP increase in the latter case points to a synergistic effect when the HM was dissolved in DMF prior to its intercalation. Note that when DMF alone was used the increase in c was very small 22.9 0.2 suggesting limited intercalation.

When the HM intercalated powders were heated to 120 C. their c LPs decreased from 25.48 to 20.6 0.3 iii and iii signifying that the intercalation process was reversible. In contrast heating the powders intercalated with HM and DMF to 120 C. resulted in a small reduction in c LP ii ii . However when the same powder was vacuum dried at 200 C. the c LP decreased to 20.1 0.5 ii ii . It follows that the HM DMF combination was more resistant to de intercalation than HM alone. Without being bound by the correctness of any particular theory this could be due to a higher boiling point of DMF 153 C. compared to that of HM 114 C. .

The XRD consistently showed that MXene were intercalated with HM. The absence of XRD peaks corresponding to a c LP of 19.5 implied that nearly entire space between MXene layers was intercalated.

XPS spectra provided further evidence of intercalation. As it was previously described pure exfoliated TiCsample showed presence of Ti C and Ti O bonds as well as OH groups suggested by the observed Ols peak around 530 eV. In case of intercalated samples the Nls signal was observed around 400 eV in XPS spectra of both TiCtreated with HM and HM DMF insets in and B respectively . As expected no peaks of nitrogen were detected in pure TiC.

SEM images of the exfoliated TiCpowders before and after HM treatment in DMF at 80 C. for 24 h shown in respectively confirmed that i the MXene remains exfoliated after intercalation and ii the layers apparently thicken by gluing monolayers together forming 20 50 nm thick lamellas. These structures were formed when organics act as adhesive ligaments gluing MXene monolayers together.

The smaller fragments attached to the edges of a larger MXene particles in were debris that most probably were formed during the long 24 h stirring with magnetic stirrer bar. Such debris has never been observed for non intercalated TiC. Their formation suggests a different mode of fracture of MXene layers after intercalation.

TEM images and corresponding SAED patterns of TiCintercalated with HM in DMF at 80 C. for 24 h showed no significant changes in the structure of the basal planes of the TiCafter intercalation and inset in . When separate MXene sheets were observed their SAED patterns confirmed the same hexagonal crystal structure of the basal planes of the intercalated sample typical for both exfoliated TiCMXene inset in and non exfoliated TiAlCMAX phase. Measurements of the d spacings for the intercalated materials gave the values 2.648 and 1.540 for the U110 and 1210 lattice planes respectively. These values result in an a LP of 3.057 a value that is in excellent agreement with the a LP of exfoliated TiCbefore intercalation as well as non exfoliated TiAlC viz. 3.058 .

Other potential intercalants were also tested. The following organic compounds were tested thiophene ethanol tetrahydrofuran formaldehyde chloroform toluene hexane DMSO and urea. Of these only DMSO and urea resulted in an increase in the c LPs from 19.5 0.1 to 35.04 0.02 and 25.00 0.02 respectively . The intercalation of these compounds was in good agreement with data reported for kaolinite.

Interestingly XRD patterns taken 3 weeks after the initial DMSO intercalation showed an even larger downshift of the 002 peaks corresponding to a c LP of 44.8 0.1 . Based upon this observation together with the fact that MXene powders are highly hygroscopic and over the same period of time they become increasingly wet this further increase of c LPs over time may be due the intercalation of HO from the ambient air into the pre open interlayer space of the intercalated MXene followed by capillary condensation of water. This effect was only observed for the DMSO intercalated MXene powders.

Although the results above were obtained on TiC other MXenes can be intercalated in a similar way. To demonstrate that intercalation was a general phenomenon rather than the exclusive property of the TiC based MXene the treatment of two other members of the MXene family TiCN and TiNbC was carried out with HM. As in the case of TiC the shift of the major XRD peak to lower 20 angles confirmed their intercalation. It is important to note that one of those phases was a carbonitride with the same general formula as TiC MX whereas the other one represented a different kind of MXene with the formula MX TiNbC consistent with the thinking that other MXenes can form intercalation compounds as well.

To further support the fact of intercalation the resistivity of non intercalated MXenes and MXenes treated with HM was measured Table 6 . Expansion of the van der Waals gap between sheets requires energy that comes from charge transfer between the guest and MXene and alters the number of charge carriers affecting the conductivity. As expected the resistivity values of all intercalated samples were higher than that of non intercalated due to the increase of their c LPs after intercalation. The difference in magnitude of the resistivity increase for different intercalated MXenes at relatively the same expansion might be partially explained by different number of MXene atomic layers. In case of MX the resistivity increased by an order of magnitude whereas the increase by two orders is observed for MC compounds. It is important to note that the resistivity values might be affected by sample density and the pressure used to compress the discs. For instance the sheet resistivity of non intercalated TiCpressed at 0.8 GPa reported in Table 6 was lower than that pressed at 1 GPa.

The properties of intercalation compounds including electrical conductivity discussed above to a large extent were determined by the amount arrangement and reactions of the guest molecules with the host material. In addition the structure of the intercalant often provided a key to deciphering the intercalation mechanisms. However as alluded to above this problem s complexity was illustrated by the large body of literature on the structure of HM intercalation in clays.

Concerning the co intercalation of HM and DMF only simple geometrical considerations were provided. The increase of c LP by 7.3 over the non intercalated MXene measured for this material after intercalation at room temperature Table 5 could be explained by the insertion of both HM and DMF molecules. Based on the experimentally measured increase in MXene c LPs upon co intercalation of HM and DMF the insertion of 1 NHand 1 DMF molecule in a stack configuration into the interlayer spacing of MXene can be suggested. The resulting increase in c LP 7.3 is in this case close to the sum of 2.4 and 5.0 the changes in c LPs reported for NHand DMF intercalated kaolinites respectively. As noted above the reduction of this value to 6.5 after drying at 120 C. Table 5 could be attributed to the partial de intercalation of HM molecules leaving behind DMF molecules.

To measure the sheet resistances and the contact angle of various MXene compositions MXene discs 25 mm in diameter 300 m thick were cold pressed from the reacted powders. The latter were placed in a die and cold pressed to a load corresponding to a stress of 1 GPa. The surface or sheet resistances of cold pressed free standing MXene discs were measured using a four probe technique Cascade Probe Station CPS 1303 24 with 4 point probe head Alessi C4S 57 Cascade Microtech Inc. Beaverton USA .

Contact angle measurements of deionized water were also performed at room temperature using the sessile drop technique. Ten microliter water drops were placed on the surfaces of cold pressed MXene discs. The contact angles were measured from photographs taken with a CCD camera yielding an accuracy of approximately 3 .

The densities of the cold pressed discs of the various MXene compositions Table 7 varied between 2.91 g cmfor TiC to 6.82 g cmfor TaC. If one assumes the c lattice parameters listed in Table 1 and OH terminated surfaces of MXene sheets then it is possible to calculate the theoretical densities. The last row in Table 7 lists the measured densities of the pressed discs. The numbers in parentheses list the of theoretical densities that range from 50 to ca. 65 .

The sheet resistivity and resistivities of the various MXene discs are also shown in Table 7. The resistivity values are higher than the MAX phases before treatment 

Contact angle measurement results for water droplets on the cold pressed discs of exfoliated phases are also listed in Table 7. These values are lower than those of the corresponding MAX phases that were also measured in this work on cold pressed samples which were around 60 . The reduction in contact angle can be explained by the presence of OH surface groups after the HF treatment. In contradistinction graphene can be transformed from superhydrophopic to superhydrophilic by altering the surface groups. The hydrophilicity of the MXenes would be an advantage when using aqueous electrolytes in energy storage devices or dispersing in water and alcohols for further processing.

The fabrication of 1 1 cmTiCTfilms by selective etching of Al from sputtered epitaxial TiAlCfilms in aqueous HF or NHHFis described herein. Films that were about 19 nm thick etched with NHHF transmit 90 of the light in the visible to infrared range and exhibit metallic conductivity down to 100 K. Below 100 K the films resistivities increase with decreasing temperature and exhibit negative magnetoresistances both observations consistent with a weak localization phenomenon characteristic of 2D defective solid. This advance opens the door for the use of MXenes in electronic photonic and sensing applications.

The examples provided herein describe results derived from TiCT. It should be appreciated that the results described herein are expected to be reproducible with other MXene materials and separate embodiments include those wherein properties are described with respect to these other MXene materials. That is other specific embodiments include the other MXene materials described herein resulting in properties analogous to those described herein and the articles derived from such intercalated materials.

The materials described here represent a departure from existing literature in several ways 1 they are produced as continuous epitaxial thin films 2 In all previous studies the etchant was HF. Here it is shown that ammonium bi fluoride NHHFcan be used instead 3 the one step synthesis of a MXene intercalated with ammonia is demonstrated 4 Availability of epitaxial films on transparent and insulating sapphire substrates enabled the measurement of some of the fundamental physical properties such as optical absorption in a broad wavelength range and the temperature dependence of conductivity and magnetoresistance down to 2 K. These films show high transparency for wavelengths in the visible to infrared range.

Two chemicals were used to etch at room temperature the Ti3AlC2 films. The first was 50 concentrated HF Sigma Aldrich Stockholm Sweden . Samples of nominal thickness of 15 28 43 and 60 nm were etched for 10 15 60 and 160 min respectively. The second was 1 M NHHF Sigma Aldrich Stockholm Sweden . Samples of the same thickness as those mentioned above were etched for 150 160 420 and 660 min respectively. After etching the samples were rinsed in deionized water then in ethanol.

Transmittance values of the films were obtained using a spectrophotometer Perkin Elmer Lambda 950 UV Vis with a 2 nm slit width and resolution. Spectra were corrected with both 100 and 0 transmittance background spectra. A bare sapphire substrate was used as a reference. The number of MXene layers obtained for were calculated by dividing the total film thicknesses by the c 2 where c is the lattice parameters obtained from XRD.

Room temperature resistivities were measured using a four point probe method. Three sheet resistance measurements were taken for each sample. The errors reported in Table 8 were calculated. The resistivity was obtained by multiplying the sheet resistance with the corresponding average film thickness.

The temperature dependent in plane resistivity measurements were performed in a Physical Property Measurement System Quantum Design San Diego USA using an external current source Keithley 6220 Ohio USA and nanovoltmeter Keithley 2182A . A linear four point probe geometry was used. Gold wires were attached to the films using silver paint. Positive and negative currents were applied at each temperature to eliminate any thermal offsets. The MR measurements were performed with the magnetic field up to 10 T applied out of the plane of the film.

The starting films used were 15 to 60 nm thick TiAlCfilms deposited onto sapphire 000l substrates by magnetron sputtering. shows a schematic of the process starting from the sputter deposition of TiAlC. Prior to the deposition of the TiAlClayers a TiC incubation layer was formed on the sapphire. The latter is key to growing epitaxial TiAlCfilms. This is followed by etching of the Al layers resulting in 2D TiCT layers where Tstands for the surface O OH or F terminations resulting from the aqueous HF etchant see Example 16.1 . The TiCsurfaces are presumed to be OH terminated. A scanning transmission electron microscopy STEM image of the interface between the TiC incubation layer and TiCTis shown . The fact that the very first MXene layer has an ordered structure bodes well for the production of single layer MXene films.

In these experiments ammonium bi fluoride NHHFwas used as an etchant reported to produce the MXene. As described above other bifluorides and in situ HF precursors many also be used for this purpose. The main advantages of the latter are reduced hazard relacitve to HF and milder etchant. A third advantage is the concomitant intercalation of cations during the etching process. For brevity s sake hereafter these films will be referred to as TiCT IC where the IC represents the intercalated species viz. NHand NH see below .

A typical XRD pattern of an as deposited TiAlCfilm I shows the 000l peaks from TiAlC a TiC incubation layer and the sapphire substrate. The presence of only peaks corresponding to basal plane oriented TiAlCindicates epitaxial growth a fact also confirmed by transmission electron microscopy TEM and selected area electron diffraction SAED . The TiCTXRD pattern II on the other hand shows a downshift in angle of the 000l peaks corresponding to an increase in the c lattice parameter from 18.6 for TiAlCto 19.8 for TiCT. The latter value agrees with previous work on TiCTsynthesized from TiAlCpowders. The XRD pattern of TiCT IC III is similar to the other two except that now c is further increased to 24.7 . Similar behavior was observed when TiAlCpowders were intercalated with NHOH or NHF after HF etching. In both cases the c lattice expansion was of the order of 25 . The independence of the increase in the c lattice parameter on the nature of the anion of the etching solution strongly suggests that the cations NH and or ammonia NH and not the anions are the intercalated species. Herein the etching and intercalation occur in a single step. This is an important result because it considerably simplifies the intercalation process.

X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS measurements were performed on the various films in order to characterize their chemical states and atomic compositions. The XPS results shown in for films with a nominal thickness of 60 nm demonstrate a shift in the Ti 2p and C 1s and C toward higher binding energies for the titanium carbide species in TiAlC TiCTand TiCT IC compared to those of binary TiC shown in and C as vertical lines indicating the change in the nature of bonding between the Ti and C atoms in TiAlCand the corresponding MXenes. The latter most likely occurs because valence electrons are withdrawn from the Ti atoms and subsequently from the C atoms in the MXene layers by the surface functional groups as well as from the interaction of the surface with the intercalated compounds. The removal of Al is verified by the high resolution spectra in the Al 2p region for TiCTand TiCT IC in which a very weak Al signal most probably originating from aluminum fluoride. The TiAlC Al 2p signal corresponds to Al bonded to Ti as well as surface aluminum oxide.

The reactions of HF with TiAlCare postulated to include TiAlC 3HF AlF 3 2H TiC 1 TiC 2HO TiC OH H 2 TiC 2HF TiCF H 3 

Reaction 1 is followed by reactions 2 and 3 which result in OH and F terminated TiCsurfaces or TiCT. The elemental ratio obtained from the analysis of high resolution XPS spectra is TiCOF. As indicated by XPS terminal hydroxyl and fluoride groups exist on the surface of the material thereby indirectly confirming the aforementioned reactions. EDX mapping in the TEM also confirms the presence of F and O atoms between the TiClayers.

As discussed above for NHHFetched TiAlC intercalation of ammonium species between the resulting TiCTlayers occurs concomitantly to the etching of the Al layers. It is thus reasonable to conclude that in this case the following reactions are operative TiAlC 3NHHF NH AlF TiC 3 2H 4 TiCNHHFHO NH NH TiC OH F 5 

Unlike HF etching etching with NHHFresults in formation of NH AlFaccording to reaction 4 . Reaction 5 depicts the intercalation of NHand NHbetween the TiCTlayers 30. In order to confirm the nature of the intercalating species in TiCT IC a high resolution XPS spectrum of the N is region was recorded . The latter was best fitted by two components one for NH 55.8 of N 1s peak position 402 eV FWHM 1.8 eV 30 the other for NH 44.2 of N 1s peak position 400.1 eV FWHM 1.8 eV 28 29. It is thus reasonable to conclude that both species intercalated this MXene.

The elemental ratio obtained from the analysis of high resolution XPS spectra of TiCproduced by NHHFetching of TiAlCwas TiCOFN. Here again the XPS analysis indicated the presence of terminal hydroxyl and fluoride groups.

Cross sectional scanning TEM micrographs of as deposited TiAlCfilms before and D and after etching with HF and E or NHHF and F clearly showed the presence of the TiC incubation layers and the effects of etching on the films microstructures. The SAED patterns confirmed the out of plane epitaxial relationship TiAlC 0001 TiC 111 AlO 0001 . At 18.6 the c lattice parameter for TiAlC obtained from the SAED pattern and TEM micrographs was in excellent agreement with that calculated from XRD 18.6 . At 19.5 20 the c lattice parameter of TiCTobtained from SAED pattern also matches the one from XRD 19.8 . At 21 the c for TiCT IC measured from the SAED pattern is considerably lower than that obtained from XRD 25 . The most probable reason for this state of affairs is the de intercalation of the ammonium species during TEM sample preparation and or observation.

The light elements of the surface termination groups O H and F cannot be seen between the layers but the larger and non uniform spacings seen in C E and F indirectly confirmed the weak interactions between the MXene layers after etching and the formation of a 2D structure. The non uniform interlayer spacing observed in the STEM images of the HF etched sample could also account for the peak broadening observed in XRD .

Prior to etching the initial thicknesses of the films examined in the TEM were 60 nm . However as a result of the increase in c and the separation between the MXene layers due to exfoliation the etched films were thicker than the initial films Table 8 . Comparing the atomic layers in TiCT IC and F to those of the TiCTlayers and E it was obvious that the former were more uniformly spaced. This result most probably reflected the milder nature of NHHFas compared to HF. For the latter the reaction is faster Table 8 and more vigorous than the former. Another possible explanation was that the intercalation of ammonia species led to stronger interactions between MXene layers essentially gluing them together as observed for other MXene intercalation compounds.

In terms of light transmittance both TiCTand TiCT IC films were significantly more transparent than TiAlCof the same intial thickness 15 nm Table 8 and . The increased transparency of TiCTand TiCT IC compared to that of TiAlCwas also evident visually.

With 90 transmittance the TiCT IC films were the most transparent followed by the TiCTfilms at 70 . With a transmittance of 30 the TiAlCfilms were the least transparent. It is worth noting here that the transmittance of all films would have been higher had the TiC incubation layer been absent.

A linear dependence of the absorbance that is independent of the wavelength of the light on the thickness of the TiCTand TiCTIC films was observed . The similarities in the transmittance curves and the linear dependencies of absorbance values for both samples suggest similar structures for TiCTand TiCT IC. A crude estimation of the transmittance of a single MXene layer d since each length c is comprised of two MXene layers d is approximately equal to the film thickness divided by 2c could be obtained from the linear fits of absorbance vs. d. The transmittances calculated thusly at a wavelength of 240 nm for single layers of TiCTand TiCT IC are about 90.5 and 91.5 respectively the corresponding transmittances at a wavelength of 800 nm are 97.3 and 97.1 respectively. The latter values are quite close to those reported for graphene single layers. Note that to obtain the aforementioned values both the thickness and absorbance of the TiC seed layer were neglected.

The electrical properties also confirm the metallic like nature of the conductivities of all films despite their optical transparency. The TiAlCfilms were metallic with resistivity p values in the range of 0.37 to 0.45 m. The latter increased linearly with increasing temperature

 . Furthermore p increases with decreasing film thickness Table 8 . The resistivity values of the TiCT IC films are systematically higher than those produced by HF etching. For instance 28 nm nominally thick TiCTand TiCT IC films have values of 2.3 and 5.0 m respectively. This result is also consistent with the resistivities of MXenes intercalated with organic compounds. The s of the etched films also depend significantly on etching time longer etching times lead to higher values. Note that the results listed in Table 8 were those obtained upon the full MAX to MXene conversion. The latter was determined by intermittent etching of each film followed by XRD. When the TiAlCpeaks disappeared the etching process was arrested.

At 1.8 m a 60 nm nominally thick TiCTsample was the most conductive of the HF etched films TiCTfilms Table 8 . However at 15 its transmittance was poor. The 15 nm nominally thick TiCTsample exhibited the highest transmittance 68 with a of 39.2 m. For the TiCT IC films the lowest resistivity was 5.0 m with a transmittance of about 37 . The most transparent 85 TiCTfilm had a resistivity of 4.5 m m. And while this transmittance value was comparable to ITO the sheet resistance was roughly an order of magnitude higher than ITO films having the same transmittance. The higher resistivities observed here may be due to the morphology of the as deposited films. While TiAlCfilms were predominantly c axis oriented there is also a secondary grain population wherein the basal planes are not parallel to the substrate. If the conductivity along 0001 was significantly lower than that along the basal planes such grains when etched will act as insulating islands. Reducing the fraction of such grains should result in films that are more conductive when etched.

It is predicted theoretically that altering the terminal bonds would alter the electronic properties of MXenes. Pure TiCwas predicted to have a metallic behavior whereas TiCFand TiC OH were predicted to have band gaps of 0.05 and 0.1 respectively. Thus there is room for enhancement of the conductivity of TiCby eliminating the surface groups and or enhancing the quality of the films.

To elucidate the conduction mechanisms of the MXene layers their resistivities and magnetoresistances MRs from room temperature down to about 2.5 K were measured. shows the temperature dependent resistivity for TiAlC TiCTand TiCT IC films of 28 nm nominal thickness. The TiAlCfilm exhibited metallic behavior from 300 K down to about 10 K. For the TiCTand TiCT IC films on the other hand metallic behavior was observed from 300 to about 100 K below 100 K the resistivity increases with decreasing temperature . Similar low temperature behavior was observed in other TiCTand TiCT IC films. The low temperature transport data can best be fit assuming ln T inset in .

As those skilled in the art will appreciate numerous modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of these teachings and all such are contemplated hereby. For example in addition to the embodiments described herein the present invention contemplates and claims those inventions resulting from the combination of features of the invention cited herein and those of the cited prior art references which complement the features of the present invention. Similarly it will be appreciated that any described material feature or article may be used in combination with any other material feature or article and such combinations are considered within the scope of this invention.

The disclosures of each patent patent application and publication cited or described in this document are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

