---

title: Method and apparatus of providing data service mobility
abstract: A method and apparatus of accessing a data service in a wireless communications network is disclosed. An example may include receiving a call identifying an application accessed by a mobile station, and verifying whether the accessed application is installed on the mobile station. The example may further include transferring a notification message to the mobile station based on the accessed application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473623&OS=09473623&RS=09473623
owner: West Corporation
number: 09473623
owner_city: Omaha
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150622
---
This application is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 164 989 filed Jan. 27 2014 and entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS OF PROVIDING DATA SERVICE MOBILITY which is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 575 524 filed Oct. 8 2009 and entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS OF PROVIDING DATA SERVICE MOBILITY now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 655 327 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention relates to a method and apparatus of providing data services to mobile stations. In particular example embodiments may include operations associated with accessing data services from a mobile station.

In recent years mobile wireless data communication services have become increasingly popular. In particular data services such as text messaging short message service SMS multimedia services and other forms of data services continue to grow in popularity. In some instances mobile data services are even favored over the traditional mobile voice services.

Other conventional data services may include short messaging services SMS for transmitting and receiving data messages multimedia messaging services MMS for transmitting and receiving multimedia files. Further conventional data services may include premium short message services PSMS as a type of payment scheme that permits operators to charge subscribers for mobile products and services. These above noted types of services may be provided to a mobile station by a short messaging service center SMSC . In addition data web browsing may also be offered to users of a web browser terminal .

Conventional push to talk voice services may also be offered to a mobile station . Although push to talk is in fact a voice service the format of the voice data may be similar to a type of mobile data service. The communication network may also provide access to telephony end users over a public switched telephone network PSTN that operates according to a time division multiplex TDM switching configuration.

The communication network provides mobile voice and data services to all of the various different mobile stations and their respective data access schemes and protocols. The network may represent one or more of the local loop telephony backbone network the Internet and or the network access providers of each of the respective mobile stations. These network access providers are experiencing increased demands for data services as opposed to voice services. Newer and more advanced methods of utilizing data services over the communication network are continually being offered. These new data services are driving the increased usage of data services and a decrease in voice services. Furthermore data services in general require less bandwidth and less real time connectivity efforts and thus represent a more affordable service for the network providers.

One embodiment of the present invention may include a method of accessing a data service. The method may include receiving a call identifying an application accessed by a mobile station and verifying whether the accessed application is installed on the mobile station. The method may further include transferring a notification message to the mobile station based on the accessed application.

Another example embodiment of the present invention may include an apparatus configured to access a data service. The apparatus includes a receiver configured to receive a call identifying an application accessed by a mobile station. The apparatus also includes a processor configured to verify whether the accessed application is installed on the mobile station. The apparatus further includes a transmitter configured to transfer a notification message to the mobile station based on the accessed application.

A further embodiment of the present invention also includes another method of accessing a data service. The method includes receiving a call identifying an application accessed by a mobile station. The method further includes determining that the accessed application requires an agent service and determining route information based on the accessed application by using the agent service. The method also includes transferring a call information message comprising the route information to the mobile station.

A further embodiment of the present invention also includes another apparatus configured to access a data service. The apparatus includes a receiver configured to receive a call identifying an application accessed by a mobile station. The apparatus also includes a processor configured to determine that the accessed application requires an agent service and to determine route information based on the accessed application by using the agent service. The apparatus further includes a transmitter configured to transfer a call information message comprising the route information to the mobile station comprising.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of a method apparatus and system as represented in the attached figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of selected embodiments of the invention.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of the phrases example embodiments some embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases example embodiments in some embodiments in other embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In addition while the term message has been used in the description of embodiments of the present invention the invention may be applied to many types of network data such as packet frame datagram etc. For purposes of this invention the term message also includes packet frame datagram and any equivalents thereof. Furthermore while certain types of messages and signaling are depicted in exemplary embodiments of the invention the invention is not limited to a certain type of message and the invention is not limited to a certain type of signaling.

Examples of interactive data and or voice services according to an example embodiment of the present invention may include access to a remote secure data vault platform voice self service VSS and or an interactive voice response IVR service speech services voice extensible mark up language XML notifications hosted contact centers and or hosted voice self service VSS and or an interactive voice response IVR service. These services may be accessed across a firewall at a remote client system that may include various different individual client systems and .

In the event that a client system is accessed to provide one or more of the interactive services another firewall may be accessed to enable access to a virtual private network VPN and or a multiprotocol label switching MPLS mechanism.

MPLS is a type of telecommunications network protocol and or routing procedure that directs and carries data from one network node to the next. MPLS creates virtual links between distant nodes on the network and may encapsulate packets of various different network protocols. For example when packets enter a MPLS based network label edge routers LERs not shown may provide a label or identifier. These labels contain information based on the routing table entry i.e. destination bandwidth delay and other metrics and also refer to the layer 3 IP header field source IP address layer 4 socket number information and or other differentiated services.

In another example the mobile stations may desire to access conventional voice services which may be accessed through the base station and MSC . Once the MSC receives a voice data request from a mobile station the request may be routed to the PSTN which may also represent the carrier or provider of the individual mobile station. The access request for voice services may then be forwarded to a media gateway that is used to access the voice services and or may be an outlet for the interactive data services .

Once the networking platform receives the access message the application distribution database is accessed to determine whether the application itself has been properly installed on the user s mobile station . In the event the application is present and operational a wakeup message is sent i.e. pushed to another networking component of the network and or back to the mobile station .

In addition to the above noted operations the IVR server may transfer a push notification message to the mobile station by accessing the APNI server . In turn the APNI server will transfer the message across the firewall to the Internet towards the mobile communications network MSC and the base station . Upon receiving the notification theuser may accept the notification the application will execute and a hang up will be sent to the networking platform indicating a successful execution of the application.

Once the application hasbeen executed a communication path may be established between the mobile station and the client systems without the need to access the components of the networking platform. In other words the mobile station may access the client systems directly by establishing a path across the firewalls and the VPN MPLS to the client systems. Once the path has been established the application may communicate to the client backend of the client systems by utilizing the necessary interfaces and web services. The user may then access the detailed information provided by the application. For example depending on the application accessed by the user the user may then access various services check account balance information order content i.e. pay per view etc. .

Once the application has accessed the client system the client system may transfer the access message to a different component of the client system i.e. from to in an effort to match the application s requested information with the appropriate client system. For example the user may have accessed a notification application that provides the user with detailed notifications such as detailed appointment information regarding a scheduled appointment time when the user is scheduled to receive a delivery or a maintenance person is scheduled to arrive at the user s home.

The client system may then provide the user requested notification information to the user. The notification information may be sent from the client system to a notification server of the networking platform. The application distribution database may then be checked to determine if the user is currently registered to access such a notification application. Assuming that the user is properly registered in the database the notification information may then be forwarded to the APNI server which then transfers the notification information through the firewall the Internet and back towards the mobile networking platform of the MSC the base station and to the mobile station . The user may then view the notification i.e. TV repair person will arrive at your address at 1 pm today and may also modify or cancel the notification by selecting additional operations offered by the application.

In one example an IVR component of the IVR server and or the IVR PG server may be integrated into the network platform configuration and may affect the flow of a call. For example an IVR server that has a direct interface to an IVR PG server may provide certain services such as call routing monitoring and reporting. In addition to providing services such as a real time agent and call event data processing agent the IVR PG server may monitor the IVR server for call and application data and control the movement of calls into and out of the IVR server . In other words the IVR PG server may provide a call agent service.

Referring to an example application accessed by a user of the mobile station may provide transferring a message to an intelligent call router ICR platform provided by the IVR server and or the IVR PG server . The user may then connect to an agent service provided by the IVR PG server in an effort to determine its route information for accessing the necessary application related information. The route information may be determined by accessing the client system and providing the information back to the user at the mobile station .

Once the route is determined a call number i.e. 8YY or other route related information may be transferred back to the mobile station . The user may then dial the number directly to connect to the necessary application data. The user may push a single button and dial the received number. In one example the call number may be a direct dial into a call center which may be accessed via the PSTN . The user may then receive their personal information from the call center such as phone bill personal options etc.

Referring to the user of the mobile station may transfer a message to an intelligent call router ICR platform provided by the IVR server and or the IVR PG server . The user may then connect to an agent provided by the IVR PG server in an effort to determine its route information for accessing the necessary application related information. The route information may be determined by accessing the client system and providing the information back to the user at the mobile station .

Once the route is determined a call number i.e. 8YY or other route related information may be transferred back to the mobile station . The user may then dial the number directly to connect to the necessary application data. The user may push a single button and dial the received number. However instead of calling the call center via the PSTN the user s message may be instead routed through the MGW to the IVR PG server which interfaces with the IVR server for call association. The IVR server may then dial the call number information itself without requiring the user to perform the dialing across the PSTN . The IVR server and or the IVR PG server may then connect to the call center via the VPN MPLS interface and retrieve the user s requested information and forward that information to the user of the mobile station . In this example the call center was accessed by a data message transfer procedure. Such an example procedure may be performed without requiring the user to initiate a voice data call.

The operations of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a computer program executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium such as a storage medium. For example a computer program may reside in random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor may read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components. For example illustrates an example network element which may represent any of the above described network components and .

As illustrated in a memory and a processor may be discrete components of the network entity that are used to execute an application or set of operations. The application may be coded in software in a computer language understood by the processor and stored in a computer readable medium such as the memory . Furthermore a software module may be another discrete entity that is part of the network entity and which contains software instructions that may be executed by the processor . In addition to the above noted components of the network entity the network entity may also have a transmitter and receiver pair configured to receive and transmit communication signals not shown .

One example embodiment of the present invention may include a method accessing a data service see . The method may include receiving a call identifying an application accessed by a mobile station at operation . The method may also include verifying whether the accessed application is installed on the mobile station at operation . The method may further include transferring a notification message to the mobile station based on the accessed application at operation .

Another example embodiment of the present invention may include another method of accessing a data service see . The method may include receiving a call identifying an application accessed by a mobile station at operation . The method may also include determining that the accessed application requires an agent service and determining route information based on the accessed application by using the agent service at operation . The method may further include transferring a call information message comprising the route information to the mobile station at operation .

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described it is to be understood that the embodiments described are illustrative only and the scope of the invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims when considered with a full range of equivalents and modifications e.g. protocols hardware devices software platforms etc. thereto.

