---

title: Ribonucleotide reductase inhibitors and methods of use
abstract: Provided herein are novel compounds that inhibit ribonucleotide reductase (RR) by binding to RRM2 and interfering with the activity of the RRM1/RRM2 holoenzyme, as well as methods of synthesizing these novel compounds. The compounds may be used to inhibit RR activity and to treat various conditions associated with RRM2 expression, such as for example certain cancer types, mitochondrial diseases, or degenerative diseases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09598385&OS=09598385&RS=09598385
owner: CITY OF HOPE
number: 09598385
owner_city: Duarte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150629
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 444 172 filed Jul. 28 2014 which is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2013 024490 filed Feb. 1 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 364 263 filed Feb. 1 2012 the disclosure of each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.

This invention was made with Government support under grant number CA127541 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Ribonucleotide diphosphate reductase RR is a highly regulated enzyme in the deoxyribonucleotide synthesis pathway that is ubiquitously present in human bacteria yeast and other organisms Jordan 1998 . RR is responsible for the de novo conversion of ribonucleotide diphosphate to 2 deoxyribonucleotide diphosphate a process that is essential for DNA synthesis and repair Thelander 1986 Jordan 1998 Liu 2006 . RR is directly involved in tumor growth metastasis and drug resistance Yen 1994 Zhou 1995 Nocentini 1996 Fan 1998 Zhou 1998 .

The proliferation of metastatic cancer cells requires excess dNTPs for DNA synthesis. Therefore an increase in RR activity is necessary as it helps provide extra dNTPs for DNA replication in primary and metastatic cancer cells. Because of this critical role in DNA synthesis RR represents an important target for cancer therapy. However there has been little progress in the development of RR inhibitors for use in cancer treatment. The three RR inhibitors currently in clinical use hydroxyurea 3 aminopyridine 2 carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone 3 AP and GTI2040 each have significant drawbacks. Therefore there is a need in the art for more effective compositions and methods for targeting and treating RR based cancers.

In certain embodiments a novel set of compounds including COH4 COH20 and COH29 as well as various chemical derivatives thereof are provided. Also provided are compositions and pharmaceutical formulations comprising these compounds.

In certain embodiments methods are provided for inhibiting RR activity in a cell by contacting the cell with one or more of the compounds provided herein including COH4 COH20 and or COH29.

In certain embodiments methods are provided for inhibiting the growth or proliferation of a cell expressing RRM2 by contacting the cell with a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the compounds provided herein including COH4 COH20 and or COH29.

In certain embodiments methods are provided for treating cancer in a subject in need thereof by administering a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the compounds provided herein including COH4 COH20 and or COH29. In certain embodiments the cancer may be characterized by RRM2 overexpression and in certain embodiments the cancer may be resistant to treatment with hydroxyurea.

In certain embodiments methods are provided for inhibiting proliferation of a stem cell expressing RRM2 by contacting the stem cell with a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the compounds provided herein including COH4 COH20 and or COH29.

In certain embodiments a composition is provided including the compound of Structure VIA or embodiments thereof and an organic solvent e.g. a non polar solvent of a polar aprotic solvent .

In certain embodiments a composition is provided including the compound of Structure VIA or embodiments thereof and a hydroxyl deprotecting agent.

In certain embodiments methods are provided for the synthesis and or purification of various compounds disclosed herein including COH4 COH20 and or COH29. In certain embodiments methods are provided for synthesizing and or purifying COH29 or various COH29 synthesis intermediates. In certain of these embodiments the synthesis methods provided herein utilize veratrole as a starting material and in certain of these embodiments COH29 synthesis is accomplished via 1 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 2 phenylethanone 4 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 5 phenylthiazol 2 amine and N 4 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 5 phenylthiazol 2 yl 3 4 dimethoxybenzamide intermediates. In certain of these embodiments synthesis of COH29 proceeds via the following synthesis pathway 

The following description of the invention is merely intended to illustrate various embodiments of the invention. As such the specific modifications discussed are not to be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various equivalents changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the invention and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are to be included herein.

The following abbreviations are used herein 3 AP 3 aminopyridine 2 carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone DCM dichloromethane DMF dimethylformamide dNTP deoxyribonucleotide triphosphate HU hydroxyurea RR ribonucleotide reductase RRM1 ribonucleotide reductase large subunit RRM2 ribonucleotide reductase small subunit.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount as used herein refers to an amount of a compound that produces a desired therapeutic effect. The precise therapeutically effective amount is an amount of the composition that will yield the most effective results in terms of efficacy in a given subject. This amount will vary depending upon a variety of factors including but not limited to the characteristics of the therapeutic compound including activity pharmacokinetics pharmacodynamics and bioavailability the physiological condition of the subject including age sex disease type and stage general physical condition responsiveness to a given dosage and type of medication the nature of the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or carriers in the formulation and the route of administration. One skilled in the clinical and pharmacological arts will be able to determine a therapeutically effective amount through routine experimentation namely by monitoring a subject s response to administration of a compound and adjusting the dosage accordingly. For additional guidance see Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Gennaro ed. 20edition Williams Wilkins PA USA 2000 .

 Treating or treatment of a condition as used herein may refer to preventing or alleviating a condition slowing the onset or rate of development of a condition reducing the risk of developing a condition preventing or delaying the development of symptoms associated with a condition reducing or ending symptoms associated with a condition generating a complete or partial regression of a condition curing a condition or some combination thereof. With regard to cancer treating or treatment may refer to inhibiting or slowing neoplastic and or malignant cell growth proliferation and or metastasis preventing or delaying the development of neoplastic and or malignant cell growth proliferation and or metastasis or some combination thereof. With regard to a tumor treating or treatment may refer to eradicating all or part of a tumor inhibiting or slowing tumor growth and metastasis preventing or delaying the development of a tumor or some combination thereof.

A cancer characterized by overexpression of RRM2 as used herein refers to any cancer type that expresses RRM2 at either the mRNA or protein level at a level greater than that of a corresponding normal cell or tissue. For example a prostate cancer cell line is a cancer characterized by overexpression of RRM2 if it expresses RRM2 at either the mRNA or protein level at a level greater than that observed in a corresponding normal prostate cell. A cancer characterized by overexpression of RRM2 as used herein also refers to any cancer type in which RRM2 inhibitors exhibit additional or selective effects compared to normal untransformed cells or tissues. For example a cancer type is a cancer characterized by RRM2 overexpression if it has a greater dependency on the nucleotide pool because of a difference in mitotic indices with normal cells making it more sensitive to RRM2 inhibition.

As used herein the term hydroxyl protecting group is a monovalent chemical moiety covalently bound to a monovalent hydroxyl oxygen atom that functions to prevent the hydroxyl moiety from reacting with reagents used in the chemical synthetic methods described herein commonly referred to as protecting the hydroxyl group and may be removed under conditions that do not degrade the molecule of which the hydroxyl moiety forms a part commonly referred to as deprotecting the hydroxyl group thereby yielding a free hydroxyl. A hydroxyl protecting group can be acid labile base labile or labile in the presence of other reagents. Hydroxyl protecting groups include but are not limited to activated ethylene protecting group a benzyl ether protecting group a silicon based carbonate protecting group an acetal protecting group or a cyclic acetal protecting group. Hydroxyl protecting groups include methyl benzyl p methoxybenzyl allyl trityl p methoxyphenyl tetrahydropyranyl methoxymethyl 1 ethoxyethyl 2 methoxy 2 propy 2 2 2 trichloroethoxymethyl 2 methoxyethoxymethyl 2 trimethylsilylethoxymethyl methylthiomethyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl triisopropylsilyl triphenylsilyl t butyldimethylsilyl t butyldiphenylsilyl 

As used herein the term hydroxyl deprotecting agent is a chemical compound or element that functions to remove a hydroxyl protecting group thereby yielding a free hydroxyl. Hydroxyl deprotecting agents useful in the present methods include zinc bromide magnesium bromide titanium tetrachloride dimethylboron bromide trimethylsilyl iodide silver Ag salts mercury Hg salts zinc samarium diiodide sodium amalgam trifluoroacetic acid hydrofluoric acid hydrochloric acid hydrogenation TBAF tetra n butylammonium fluoride boron trifluoride silicon tetrafluoride boron tribromide an aryl methyl ether tetrabutylammonium fluoride hydrogen Pd C Zn acid or ammonia.

The abbreviations used herein have their conventional meaning within the chemical and biological arts. The chemical structures and formulae set forth herein are constructed according to the standard rules of chemical valency known in the chemical arts.

Where substituent groups are specified by their conventional chemical formulae written from left to right they equally encompass the chemically identical substituents that would result from writing the structure from right to left e.g. CHO is equivalent to OCH .

The term alkyl by itself or as part of another substituent means unless otherwise stated a straight i.e. unbranched or branched carbon chain or carbon or combination thereof which may be fully saturated mono or polyunsaturated and can include di and multivalent radicals having the number of carbon atoms designated i.e. C Cmeans one to ten carbons . Examples of saturated hydrocarbon radicals include but are not limited to groups such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl t butyl isobutyl sec butyl cyclohexyl methyl homologs and isomers of for example n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl n octyl and the like. An unsaturated alkyl group is one having one or more double bonds or triple bonds. Examples of unsaturated alkyl groups include but are not limited to vinyl 2 propenyl crotyl 2 isopentenyl 2 butadienyl 2 4 pentadienyl 3 1 4 pentadienyl ethynyl 1 and 3 propynyl 3 butyryl and the higher homologs and isomers. An alkoxy is an alkyl attached to the remainder of the molecule via an oxygen linker O .

The term heteroalkyl by itself or in combination with another term means unless otherwise stated a stable straight or branched chain or combinations thereof including at least one carbon atom and at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O N P Si and S and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized. The heteroatom s O N P S and Si may be placed at any interior position of the heteroalkyl group or at the position at which the alkyl group is attached to the remainder of the molecule. Examples include but are not limited to CH CH O CH CH CH NH CH CH CH N CH CH CH S CH CH CH CH S O CH CH CH S O CH CH CH O CH Si CH CH CH N OCH CH CH N CH CH O CH O CH CH and CN. Up to two or three heteroatoms may be consecutive such as for example CH NH OCHand CH O Si CH . Where heteroalkyl is recited followed by recitations of specific heteroalkyl groups such as NR R or the like it will be understood that the terms heteroalkyl and NR R are not redundant or mutually exclusive. Rather the specific heteroalkyl groups are recited to add clarity. Thus the term heteroalkyl should not be interpreted herein as excluding specific heteroalkyl groups such as NR R or the like.

The terms cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl by themselves or in combination with other terms mean unless otherwise stated cyclic versions of alkyl and heteroalkyl respectively. Additionally for heterocycloalkyl a heteroatom can occupy the position at which the heterocycle is attached to the remainder of the molecule. Examples of cycloalkyl include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohexenyl 3 cyclohexenyl cycloheptyl and the like. Examples of heterocycloalkyl include but are not limited to 1 1 2 5 6 tetrahydropyridyl 1 piperidinyl 2 piperidinyl 3 piperidinyl 4 morpholinyl 3 morpholinyl tetrahydrofuran 2 yl tetrahydrofuran 3 yl tetrahydrothien 2 yl tetrahydrothien 3 yl 1 piperazinyl 2 piperazinyl and the like. A cycloalkylene and a heterocycloalkylene alone or as part of another substituent means a divalent radical derived from a cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl respectively.

The term aryl means unless otherwise stated a polyunsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon substituent which can be a single ring or multiple rings preferably from 1 to 3 rings that are fused together i.e. a fused ring aryl or linked covalently. A fused ring aryl refers to multiple rings fused together wherein at least one of the fused rings is an aryl ring. The term heteroaryl refers to aryl groups or rings that contain at least one heteroatom such as N O or S wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms are optionally oxidized and the nitrogen atom s are optionally quaternized. Thus the term heteroaryl includes fused ring heteroaryl groups i.e. multiple rings fused together wherein at least one of the fused rings is a heteroaromatic ring . A 5 6 fused ring heteroarylene refers to two rings fused together wherein one ring has 5 members and the other ring has 6 members and wherein at least one ring is a heteroaryl ring. Likewise a 6 6 fused ring heteroarylene refers to two rings fused together wherein one ring has 6 members and the other ring has 6 members and wherein at least one ring is a heteroaryl ring. And a 6 5 fused ring heteroarylene refers to two rings fused together wherein one ring has 6 members and the other ring has 5 members and wherein at least one ring is a heteroaryl ring. A heteroaryl group can be attached to the remainder of the molecule through a carbon or heteroatom. Non limiting examples of aryl and heteroaryl groups include phenyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl 4 biphenyl 1 pyrrolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 3 pyrazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 2 phenyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 2 furyl 3 furyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 2 pyrimidyl 4 pyrimidyl 5 benzothiazolyl purinyl 2 benzimidazolyl 5 indolyl 1 isoquinolyl 5 isoquinolyl 2 quinoxalinyl 5 quinoxalinyl 3 quinolyl and 6 quinolyl. Substituents for each of the above noted aryl and heteroaryl ring systems are selected from the group of acceptable substituents described below. Non limiting examples of heteroaryl groups include pyridinyl pyrimidinyl thiophenyl furanyl indolyl benzoxadiazolyl benzodioxolyl benzodioxanyl thianaphthanyl pyrrolopyridinyl indazolyl quinolinyl quinoxalinyl pyridopyrazinyl quinazolinonyl benzoisoxazolyl imidazopyridinyl benzofuranyl benzothiophenyl phenyl naphthyl biphenyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl pyrazinyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl furylthienyl pyridyl pyrimidyl benzothiazolyl purinyl benzimidazolyl isoquinolyl thiadiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyrrolyl diazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl benzothiadiazolyl isothiazolyl pyrazolopyrimidinyl pyrrolopyrimidinyl benzotriazolyl benzoxazolyl or quinolyl. The examples above may be substituted or unsubstituted and divalent radicals of each heteroaryl example above are non limiting examples of heteroarylene.

Each of the above terms e.g. alkyl heteroalkyl aryl and heteroaryl includes both substituted and unsubstituted forms as indicated herein of the indicated radical. Preferred substituents for each type of radical are provided below.

Substituents for the alkyl and heteroalkyl radicals including those groups often referred to as alkylene alkenyl heteroalkylene heteroalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and heterocycloalkenyl can be one or more of a variety of groups selected from but not limited to OR O NR N OR NR R SR halogen SiR R R OC O R C O R COR CONR R OC O NR R NR C O R NR C O NR R NR C O R NR C NR R R NR NR C NR R NR S O R S O R S O NR R NRSOR NRNR R ONR R NR C O NR NR R CN NO in a number ranging from zero to 2m 1 where m is the total number of carbon atoms in such radical. R R R R and R each preferably independently refer to hydrogen substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. aryl substituted with 1 3 halogens substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl substituted or unsubstituted alkyl alkoxy or thioalkoxy groups or arylalkyl groups. When a compound of the invention includes more than one R group for example each of the R groups is independently selected as are each R R R and R group when more than one of these groups is present. When R and R are attached to the same nitrogen atom they can be combined with the nitrogen atom to form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered ring. For example NR R includes but is not limited to 1 pyrrolidinyl and 4 morpholinyl. From the above discussion of substituents one of skill in the art will understand that the term alkyl is meant to include groups including carbon atoms bound to groups other than hydrogen groups such as haloalkyl e.g. CFand CHCF and acyl e.g. C O CH C O CF C O CHOCH and the like . Similar to the substituents described for the alkyl radical substituents for the aryl and heteroaryl groups are varied and are selected from for example OR NR R SR halogen SiR R R OC O R C O R COR CONR R OC O NR R NR C O R NR C O NR R NR C O R NR C NR R R NR NR C NR R NR S O R S O R S O NR R NRSOR NR NR R ONR R NR C O NR NR R CN NO R N CH Ph fluoro C C alkoxy and fluoro C C alkyl in a number ranging from zero to the total number of open valences on the aromatic ring system and where R R R and R are preferably independently selected from hydrogen substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl and substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. When a compound of the invention includes more than one R group for example each of the R groups is independently selected as are each R R R and R groups when more than one of these groups is present.

Two or more substituents may optionally be joined to form aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl groups. Such so called ring forming substituents are typically though not necessarily found attached to a cyclic base structure. In one embodiment the ring forming substituents are attached to adjacent members of the base structure. For example two ring forming substituents attached to adjacent members of a cyclic base structure create a fused ring structure. In another embodiment the ring forming substituents are attached to a single member of the base structure. For example two ring forming substituents attached to a single member of a cyclic base structure create a spirocyclic structure. In yet another embodiment the ring forming substituents are attached to non adjacent members of the base structure.

Two of the substituents on adjacent atoms of the aryl or heteroaryl ring may optionally form a ring of the formula T C O CRR U wherein T and U are independently NR O CRR or a single bond and q is an integer of from 0 to 3. Alternatively two of the substituents on adjacent atoms of the aryl or heteroaryl ring may optionally be replaced with a substituent of the formula A CH B wherein A and B are independently CRR O NR S S O S O S O NR or a single bond and r is an integer of from 1 to 4. One of the single bonds of the new ring so formed may optionally be replaced with a double bond. Alternatively two of the substituents on adjacent atoms of the aryl or heteroaryl ring may optionally be replaced with a substituent of the formula CRR X C R R where s and d are independently integers of from 0 to 3 and X is O NR S S O S O or S O NR . The substituents R R R and R are preferably independently selected from hydrogen substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl and substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.

As used herein the terms heteroatom or ring heteroatom are meant to include oxygen O nitrogen N sulfur S phosphorus P and silicon Si .

A size limited substituent or size limited substituent group as used herein means a group selected from all of the substituents described above for a substituent group wherein each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkyl each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkyl and each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 8 membered heterocycloalkyl.

A lower substituent or lower substituent group as used herein means a group selected from all of the substituents described above for a substituent group wherein each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 8 membered heteroalkyl each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkyl and each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl.

In some embodiments each substituted group described in the compounds herein is substituted with at least one substituent group. More specifically in some embodiments each substituted alkyl substituted heteroalkyl substituted cycloalkyl substituted heterocycloalkyl substituted aryl substituted heteroaryl substituted alkylene substituted heteroalkylene substituted cycloalkylene substituted heterocycloalkylene substituted arylene and or substituted heteroarylene described in the compounds herein are substituted with at least one substituent group. In other embodiments at least one or all of these groups are substituted with at least one size limited substituent group. In other embodiments at least one or all of these groups are substituted with at least one lower substituent group.

In other embodiments of the compounds herein each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl may be a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkyl each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkyl and or each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 8 membered heterocycloalkyl.

In some embodiments each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 8 membered heteroalkyl each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C Ccycloalkyl and or each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts is meant to include salts of the active compounds that are prepared with relatively nontoxic acids or bases depending on the particular substituents found on the compounds described herein. When compounds of the present invention contain relatively acidic functionalities base addition salts can be obtained by contacting the neutral form of such compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired base either neat or in a suitable inert solvent. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts include sodium potassium calcium ammonium organic amino or magnesium salt or a similar salt. When compounds of the present invention contain relatively basic functionalities acid addition salts can be obtained by contacting the neutral form of such compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired acid either neat or in a suitable inert solvent. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those derived from inorganic acids like hydrochloric hydrobromic nitric carbonic monohydrogencarbonic phosphoric monohydrogenphosphoric dihydrogenphosphoric sulfuric monohydrogensulfuric hydriodic or phosphorous acids and the like as well as the salts derived from relatively nontoxic organic acids like acetic propionic isobutyric maleic malonic benzoic succinic suberic fumaric lactic mandelic phthalic benzenesulfonic p tolylsulfonic citric tartaric oxalic methanesulfonic and the like. Also included are salts of amino acids such as arginate and the like and salts of organic acids like glucuronic or galactunoric acids and the like see for example Berge et al. Pharmaceutical Salts 1977 66 1 19 . Certain specific compounds of the present invention contain both basic and acidic functionalities that allow the compounds to be converted into either base or acid addition salts.

Thus the compounds of the present invention may exist as salts such as with pharmaceutically acceptable acids. The present invention includes such salts. Examples of such salts include hydrochlorides hydrobromides sulfates methanesulfonates nitrates maleates acetates citrates fumarates tartrates e.g. tartrates tartrates or mixtures thereof including racemic mixtures succinates benzoates and salts with amino acids such as glutamic acid. These salts may be prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art.

The neutral forms of the compounds are preferably regenerated by contacting the salt with a base or acid and isolating the parent compound in the conventional manner. The parent form of the compound differs from the various salt forms in certain physical properties such as solubility in polar solvents.

Certain compounds of the present invention can exist in unsolvated forms as well as solvated forms including hydrated forms. In general the solvated forms are equivalent to unsolvated forms and are encompassed within the scope of the present invention. Certain compounds of the present invention may exist in multiple crystalline or amorphous forms. In general all physical forms are equivalent for the uses contemplated by the present invention and are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.

As used herein the term salt refers to acid or base salts of the compounds used in the methods of the present invention. Illustrative examples of acceptable salts are mineral acid hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid and the like salts organic acid acetic acid propionic acid glutamic acid citric acid and the like salts quaternary ammonium methyl iodide ethyl iodide and the like salts.

Certain compounds of the present invention possess asymmetric carbon atoms optical or chiral centers or double bonds the enantiomers racemates diastereomers tautomers geometric isomers stereoisometric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S or as D or L for amino acids and individual isomers are encompassed within the scope of the present invention. The compounds of the present invention do not include those which are known in art to be too unstable to synthesize and or isolate. The present invention is meant to include compounds in racemic and optically pure forms. Optically active R and S or D and L isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques. When the compounds described herein contain olefinic bonds or other centers of geometric asymmetry and unless specified otherwise it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric isomers.

As used herein the term isomers refers to compounds having the same number and kind of atoms and hence the same molecular weight but differing in respect to the structural arrangement or configuration of the atoms.

The term tautomer as used herein refers to one of two or more structural isomers which exist in equilibrium and which are readily converted from one isomeric form to another.

It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that certain compounds of this invention may exist in tautomeric forms all such tautomeric forms of the compounds being within the scope of the invention.

Unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include all stereochemical forms of the structure i.e. the R and S configurations for each asymmetric center. Therefore single stereochemical isomers as well as enantiomeric and diastereomeric mixtures of the present compounds are within the scope of the invention.

Unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include compounds which differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched atoms. For example compounds having the present structures except for the replacement of a hydrogen by a deuterium or tritium or the replacement of a carbon by C or C enriched carbon are within the scope of this invention.

The compounds of the present invention may also contain unnatural proportions of atomic isotopes at one or more of the atoms that constitute such compounds. For example the compounds may be radiolabeled with radioactive isotopes such as for example tritium H iodine 125 I or carbon 14 C . All isotopic variations of the compounds of the present invention whether radioactive or not are encompassed within the scope of the present invention.

The terms a or an as used in herein means one or more. In addition the phrase substituted with a n as used herein means the specified group may be substituted with one or more of any or all of the named substituents. For example where a group such as an alkyl or heteroaryl group is substituted with an unsubstituted C Calkyl or unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkyl the group may contain one or more unsubstituted C Calkyls and or one or more unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkyls. Moreover where a moiety is substituted with an R substituent the group may be referred to as R substituted. Where a moiety is R substituted the moiety is substituted with at least one R substituent and each R substituent is optionally different.

Description of compounds of the present invention are limited by principles of chemical bonding known to those skilled in the art. Accordingly where a group may be substituted by one or more of a number of substituents such substitutions are selected so as to comply with principles of chemical bonding and to give compounds which are not inherently unstable and or would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art as likely to be unstable under ambient conditions such as aqueous neutral and several known physiological conditions. For example a heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl is attached to the remainder of the molecule via a ring heteroatom in compliance with principles of chemical bonding known to those skilled in the art thereby avoiding inherently unstable compounds.

dNTP production in eukaryotes is tightly regulated by RR which catalyzes the rate limiting step in deoxyribonucleotide synthesis Jordan 1998 . RR consists of a large subunit and a small subunit. In humans one large subunit RRM1 also referred to as M1 and two small subunits RRM2 also referred to as M2 and p53R2 have been identified Tanaka 2000 Liu 2006 . The small RR subunits form two equivalent dinuclear iron centers that stabilize the tyrosyl free radical required for initiation of electron transformation during catalysis Ochiai 1990 Cooperman 2003 Liu 2006 .

RRM1 is a 170 Kd dimer containing substrate and allosteric effector sites that control RR holoenzyme activity and substrate specificity Cory 1983 Wright 1990 Cooperman 2003 Liu 2006 .

RRM2 is an 88 Kd dimer containing a tyrosine free radical and a non heme iron for enzyme activity Chang 1979 . p53R2 contains a p53 binding site in intron 1 and encodes a 351 amino acid peptide with striking similarity to RRM2 Tanaka 2000 . RRM2 and p53R2 have an 80 similarity in amino acid sequence Tanaka 2000 .

p53R2 has been identified as a transcriptional target of p53 Nakano 2000 Tanaka 2000 Yamaguchi 2001 while RRM2 is transcriptionally regulated by cell cycle associated factors such as NF Y and E2F Filatov 1995 Currie 1998 Chabes 2004 Liu 2004 . Therefore expression of p53R2 but not RRM2 is induced by ultraviolet UV light gamma irradiation or Doxorubicin Dox treatment in a p53 dependent manner Lozano 2000 Tanaka 2000 Guittet 2001 . In p53 mutant or deleted cells RRM2 can replace p53R2 in the DNA repair process for cells exposed to UV irradiation Zhou 2003 Liu 2005 . P53R2 has been found to have a stronger reducing capacity than RRM2 which may provide a chaperone effect in stabilizing p21 Xue 2007 .

It has been observed that the RB tumor suppressor suppresses RR subunits as a mechanism for regulating cell cycle progression Elledge 1990 . RB inactivation often observed in tumors leads to increased dNTP levels and a concomitant resistance of tumor cells to drugs such as 5 fluorouracil 5 Fu and HU Angus 2002 . While overexpression of the RRM2 subunit promotes transformation and tumorigenic potential via its cooperation with several activated oncogenes Fan 1998 overexpression of the RRM1 subunit suppresses malignant potential in vivo Fan 1997 . Increased expression of RRM2 has been found to increase the drug resistant properties of cancer cells and to increase invasive potential whereas RRM2 suppression leads to the reversal of drug resistance and results in decrease proliferation of tumor cells Zhou 1995 Huang 1997 Zhou 1998 Goan 1999 Chen 2000 Nakano 2000 Kuschak 2002 . Normal cells express very low levels of RR in non proliferative status whereas most neoplastic cells overexpress RR thereby supplying dNTP pools for DNA synthesis and cell proliferation. Thus specific inhibition of RRM2 is likely to provide antineoplastic benefits.

Although RR represents an important target for cancer therapy there are only three RR inhibitors in clinical use hydroxyurea HU 3 aminopyridine 2 carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone 3 AP TRIAPINE and GTI2040. HU which blocks DNA synthesis by reducing the tyrosyl free radical has been marketed as a cancer therapeutic for over 30 years and is the only RR inhibitor that is commercially available Nocentini 1996 . However resistance to HU treatment is a common problem Lassmann 1992 Nyholm 1993 Le 2002 . 3 AP a small molecule iron chelator inactivates RR has been found to cause hypoxia respiratory distress and methemoglobulin of red blood cells. In addition 3 AP selectively targets p53R2 instead of RRM2. GTI2040 an antisense molecule has thus far been ineffective in human trials. Other issues relating to these three RR inhibitors are incomplete RR blocking short half life and regeneration of RR. In addition mutation of p53R2 results in hereditary mitochondria depletion syndrome but not cancer and p53R2 knockout mice demonstrate kidney tubule disorder but no obvious cancer growth Kimura 2003 . These observations suggest that RRM2 is responsible for tumor proliferation and metastatic potential whereas p53R2 induced by DNA damage signals for DNA repair. Therefore an ideal RR inhibitor for use in cancer therapy would have greater potency than HU less iron chelating ability than 3 AP and specific targeting of RRM2.

As disclosed herein RRM2 has been validated as an anti cancer target. Suppression of RRM2 via siRNA was found to decrease tumor growth in mice implanted with human HepG2 liver cancer cells. Expression of RRM2 was determined to be significantly higher in cancer cells than in corresponding normal cells. In addition human KB and PC3 cells transfected with RRM2 exhibited increased invasive potential versus their non transfected counterparts suggesting that RRM2 enhances the invasive potential of cancer cells.

A diverse compound library from NCI Developmental Therapeutics Program DTP was screened to identify compounds that inhibit RR. Three of the four compounds identified in this screen that inhibited RRM1 RRM2 activity by 80 of more shared a similar structural scaffold NCI 3. NCI 3 has the structure 

Initial hits from the screening process were synthetically and rationally optimized to obtain the RR inhibitors COH1 COH2 COH4 COH20 and COH29 the structures of which are set forth below.

Each of these compounds exhibited the ability to inhibit RR to a significant degree and COH20 and COH29 both exhibited the ability to inhibit cancer cell growth across a wide range of cancer cell types. Accordingly in certain embodiments the present application discloses novel RR inhibitors compositions formulations and kits comprising one or more of these inhibitors and methods of using these inhibitors to inhibit RR inhibit cell growth or proliferation treat cancer and or inhibit stem cell proliferation.

COH20 consists of three basic structural units a pharmacophore for inhibition of RR activity a binding group for selectivity and a linking group to connect the pharmacophore and the binding group. As disclosed herein COH20 exhibited low micromolar range inhibition of both recombinant and intracellular RR in vitro and caused a decrease in dNTP pools. Biochemical analysis revealed that COH20 targets RRM2. Upon binding the RRM1 RRM2 complex COH20 appears to reside at the V shaped pocket at the interface between RRM1 and RRM2 and block the free radical transfer pathway though a novel catechol radical stabilization mechanism. Considering the size and chemical composition of COH20 and the distance to the dinuclear iron center the bound ligand in this pocket does not appear to be susceptible to iron chelation as with 3 AP or involved in the direct quenching of the initially formed tyrosyl free radical as with HU. COH20 was found to inhibit growth of the human leukemia cell lines REH and MOLT 4 the human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP and the human oropharyngeal cancer cell line KB in vitro at a concentration of less than 10 M while exhibiting less cytotoxicity towards normal fibroblast cells than HU. COH20 also exhibited greater cytotoxicity towards the HU resistant cell line KBHURs than 3 AP indicating that it is capable of overcoming HU drug resistance. COH20 exhibited cytotoxicity towards KBMDR cells at lower concentration than 3 AP or HU 80 M versus 200 M and 1000 M respectively indicating that COH20 circumvents MDR more effectively than 3 AP. In addition COH20 had very low toxicity when administered to mice with no evidence or iron chelation or methemoglobulin.

As disclosed herein COH29 showed promising growth inhibitory effects on a wide range of human cancer cell lines including 

In certain embodiments COH29 showed a GI50 of less than about 10 M for the NCI 60 human cancer cell lines except colon cancer cell line HT29 melanoma cancer cell line UACC 257 ovarian cancer cell line NCI ADR RES and renal cancer cell line CAKI 1. In addition pharmacokinetic studies of COH29 showed a dose dependent manner when COH29 was administered by i.v. bolus.

COH4 COH20 and COH29 represent unique RR inhibitors with high antitumoral activity that provide significant advantages over previously disclosed RR inhibitors. Specifically COH20 offers a unique mechanism and target specificity that interferes with the radical transfer pathway at the RRM1 RRM2 interface with greater potency than HU and amelioration of the iron chelation related side effects observed with 3 AP. Therefore provided herein in certain embodiments are small molecule RR inhibitors and methods of using these inhibitors to inhibit RR and to treat cancer. The inhibitors disclosed herein are capable of overcoming HU resistance a common obstacle to cancer therapy and are also capable of overcoming multidrug resistance.

In certain embodiments a novel RR inhibitor as disclosed herein is COH1 COH2 COH4 COH20 or COH29 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate stereoisomer or prodrug derivative thereof.

The RR inhibitors disclosed herein specifically target RRM2 inhibiting the interaction between RRM1 and RRM2 and inhibiting the activity of the RR complex. Therefore these inhibitors may be used to certain cancers including cancers associated with the overexpression of RRM2 or for which there exists a suitable therapeutic index. As disclosed herein RRM2 may be overexpressed in breast cancer cells versus normal cells and expression of exogenous RRM2 increases cancer cell invasive potential. The inhibitors disclosed herein have been shown to inhibit growth of multiple cancer cell types in vitro supporting the use of these inhibitors to treat a wide range of cancers.

Previous studies have shown that RRM2 is highly expressed in stem cells in the colon Liu 2006 . At the early stages of colon cancer RRM2 expression decreases slightly. However RRM2 expression increases significantly once the tumor becomes aggressive. These results support the findings herein that RRM2 expression is associated with an increase in cancer cell invasiveness. In addition they support the use of the inhibitors disclosed herein to inhibit the growth or proliferation of stem cells giving rise to cancer thereby preventing or slowing the onset of certain cancer types.

In addition to cancer the inhibitors disclosed herein may be used to treat other conditions associated with RR or RR overexpression such as for example various mitochondrial redox related or degenerative diseases. In addition the inhibitors may be used to inhibit growth or proliferation of cells expressing RR.

Provided herein in certain embodiments are methods for both small and large scale synthesis of the small molecule RR inhibitors disclosed herein. In certain of these embodiments the small molecule RR inhibitor being synthesized is COH29. Small molecule RR inhibitors synthesized using the methods provided herein may be purified by various methods known in the art. Specific purification steps that may be utilized include for example precipitation trituration crystallization or chromatographic techniques such as silica gel chromatography.

In certain embodiments methods are provided for the synthesis of COH29. In certain of these embodiments the starting material is a compound having the structure 

In certain embodiments the first step in the synthesis of COH29 is the conversion of the starting material compound to a first intermediate compound having the structure 

In certain embodiments the starting material compound is converted to the first intermediate compound by adding the starting material compound to a mixture comprising anhydrous AlClin dichloromethane CHCl and a compound having the structure 

In certain embodiments the second step in the synthesis of COH29 is the conversion of a first intermediate compound of Structure III to a second intermediate compound having the structure 

In certain embodiments the first intermediate compound is converted to the second intermediate compound by dissolving the first intermediate compound and pyridinium tribromide in dichloromethane followed by washing and drying. In certain embodiments the dried reaction mixture is then mixed with thiourea in ethanol. In certain embodiments the resultant product can be concentrated washed and purified by trituration and drying.

In certain embodiments the second step of a COH29 synthesis method as provided herein is summarized as follows 

In certain embodiments the third step in the synthesis of COH29 is the conversion of a second intermediate compound of Structure V to a third intermediate compound having the structure 

In certain embodiments a second intermediate compound is converted to a third intermediate compound by adding the second intermediate compound 4 dimethylamino pyridine and EtN to an acid chloride solution containing 3 4 dimethoxybenzoic acid and dimethylformamide treated with thionyl chloride. In certain embodiments the reaction may be quenched with NaHCO. In certain embodiments the resultant suspension may be extracted with dichloromethane and in certain of these embodiments the extracted product may be triturated using hexanes.

In certain embodiments the third step of a COH29 synthesis method as provided herein is summarized as follows 

In certain embodiments the fourth step in the synthesis of COH29 is the conversion of a third intermediate compound of Structure VI to COH29. In certain of these embodiments the third intermediate compound is mixed with boron tribromide in toluene and in certain of these embodiments the reaction is quenched with ethanol followed by precipitation from water. In certain embodiments the resultant product undergoes one or more purification steps. In certain of these embodiments the product is purified using a C 18 silica gel optionally followed by crystallization.

In certain embodiments the fourth step of a COH29 synthesis method as provided herein is summarized as follows 

In certain embodiments synthesis of COH29 results in a final yield of 50 or greater and in certain of these embodiments the final yield is 60 or greater 70 or greater 80 or greater or 90 or greater.

In certain embodiments methods are provided for the large scale synthesis of COH29 using the synthetic pathway set forth in .

The following examples are provided to better illustrate the claimed invention and are not to be interpreted as limiting the scope of the invention. To the extent that specific materials are mentioned it is merely for purposes of illustration and is not intended to limit the invention. One skilled in the art may develop equivalent means or reactants without the exercise of inventive capacity and without departing from the scope of the invention.

Where R R R R R R or Rare a substituted alkyl substituted heteroalkyl substituted cycloalkyl substituted heterocycloalkyl substituted aryl or substituted heteroaryl the substituent may be a substituent group as defined above. The substituent may also be a size limited substituent group as defined above. The substituent may also be a lower substituent group as defined above.

Where R is a substituted aryl the substituent may be a substituent group as defined above. The substituent may also be a size limited substituent group as defined above. The substituent may also be a lower substituent group as defined above.

In embodiments R R Rand Rare independently substituted or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . In embodiments R R Rand Rare substituted or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl or substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl . In embodiments R R Rand Rare independently a substituted silyl. A substituted silyl as used herein refers to a substituted heteroalkyl wherein at least one of the heteroatoms is a silicon atom. The silicon atom may be directly attached to the oxygen atom of the hydroxyl that is protected thereby forming a silyl ether. In embodiments the substituted silyl is substituted with an unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 5 membered heteroalkyl unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . In embodiments the substituted silyl is substituted with an unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . In related embodiments the silicon atom of the substituted silyl is directly attached to the oxygen atom of the remainder of the compound thereby forming a silyl ether.

Where R R Rand Rare a substituted alkyl substituted heteroalkyl e.g. substituted silyl substituted cycloalkyl substituted heterocycloalkyl substituted aryl or substituted heteroaryl the substituent may be a substituent group as defined above. The substituent may also be a size limited substituent group as defined above. The substituent may also be a lower substituent group as defined above.

R R R R R R and Rmay also independently be hydrogen OH NH SH CN CF NO oxo halogen R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or R substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . In embodiments Ris not OH NH SH CN CF NO oxo or halogen. Rand Rmay optionally be joined together to form a R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 5 membered heterocycloalkyl . Rand Rmay optionally be joined together to form a R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 5 membered heterocycloalkyl . R may be R substituted or unsubstituted aryl. R R Rand Rmay be R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or R substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl .

R R R Rand Rmay independently be R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or R substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . R R R Rand Rmay independently be R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl or R substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl .

Each R R R R Rand Rare independently OH NH SH CN CF NO oxo halogen R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or R substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . Each Ris independently OH NH SH CN CF NO oxo halogen R substituted or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl R substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or R substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . Each Ris independently OH NH SH CN CF NO oxo halogen unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl .

In embodiments each R R R R Rand Rare independently OH NH SH CN CF NO oxo halogen unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl .

In embodiments R R R R R R and Rare independently hydrogen OH NH SH CN CF NO oxo halogen unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl . In embodiments at least one of R R R R R R and Ris hydrogen. In embodiments at least two of R R R R R R and Rare hydrogen. In embodiments at least three of R R R R R R and Rare hydrogen. In embodiments at least four of R R R R R R and Rare hydrogen. In embodiments at least five of R R R R R R and Rare hydrogen. In embodiments at least six of R R R R R R and Rare hydrogen. In embodiments R R R R R R and Rare hydrogen.

In embodiments R R Rand Rare independently unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl unsubstituted heteroalkyl e.g. 2 to 10 membered heteroalkyl unsubstituted cycloalkyl e.g. C Ccycloalkyl unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl e.g. 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or unsubstituted heteroaryl e.g. 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl .

In embodiments R R Rand Rare independently an activated ethylene protecting group a benzyl ether protecting group a silicon based carbonate protecting group or a cyclic acetal protecting group. In embodiments R R Rand Rare methyl benzyl p methoxybenzyl allyl trityl p methoxyphenyl tetrahydropyranyl methoxymethyl 1 ethoxyethyl 2 methoxy 2 propy 2 2 2 trichloroethoxymethyl 2 methoxyethoxymethyl 2 trimethylsilylethoxymethyl methylthiomethyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl triisopropylsilyl triphenylsilyl t butyldimethylsilyl t butyldiphenylsilyl 

The symbol n is 0 or 1. Ris hydrogen OH OR substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In embodiments Ris hydrogen OH ORor substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In embodiments Ris hydrogen. Ris substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In embodiments Ris substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. R Rand Rare independently substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In embodiment R Rand Rare independently substituted or unsubstituted alkyl or substituted or unsubstituted aryl.

Where R R RRand Ris a substituted alkyl substituted heteroalkyl substituted cycloalkyl substituted heterocycloalkyl substituted aryl or substituted heteroaryl the substituent may be a substituent group as defined above. The substituent may also be a size limited substituent group as defined above. The substituent may also be a lower substituent group as defined above.

In embodiments Ris hydrogen methyl or OCH. R Rand Rmay be unsubstituted C Calkyl or unsubstituted phenyl. In embodiments R Rand Rmay be unsubstituted C Calkyl.

In embodiments R is unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl . R R R R R R and Rmay independently be hydrogen unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl .

In embodiments Rand Rare optionally joined together to form an acetal protecting group and Rand Rare optionally joined together to form an acetal protecting group. An acetal protecting group is used according to its common meaning in the art of chemical synthesis in which an acetal group is frequently used to protect catechol hydroxyl moieties. An acetal protecting group may have the formula 

In Structure VIC Rand Rare independently hydrogen substituted or unsubstituted alkyl e.g. Cto Calkyl such as methyl or substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl . The symbol represents the point of attachment to the catechol oxygen atoms i.e. oxygen atoms attached to R Rand Rand R respectively . In embodiments Rand Rare independently hydrogen unsubstituted alkyl e.g. Cto Calkyl such as methyl or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl . In some embodiments Rand Rare hydrogen. In embodiments Rand Rare unsubstituted alkyl e.g. Cto Calkyl . In embodiments Rand Rare methyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl . In embodiments the acetal protecting group is a diphenyl methylene acetal.

In embodiments a composition is provided including the compound of Structure VIA or embodiments thereof or Structure VIB or embodiments thereof and an organic solvent e.g. a non polar solvent of a polar aprotic solvent . In embodiments the organic solvent is a non polar solvent e.g. toluene or 1 4 dioxane . In embodiments the organic solvent is dioxane. In embodiments the organic solvent is a polar aprotic solvent e.g. acetone dimethylformamide acetonitrile of dimethyl sulfoxide . In embodiments the organic solvent is dimethyl formamide.

In embodiments a composition is provided including the compound of Structure VIA or embodiments thereof or Structure VIB or embodiments thereof and a hydroxyl deprotecting agent. The hydroxyl deprotecting agent is a chemical agent useful in removing a hydroxyl protecting group as described herein. Useful chemical agents are selected as hydroxyl deprotecting agents to minimize degradation of the compound of Structure VIA and embodiments thereof Structure VIB and embodiments thereof and Structure VID and embodiments thereof. In embodiments the deprotecting agent is a reducing agent an acidic agent or a basic agent. In embodiments the deprotecting agent is boron tribromide an aryl methyl ether tetrabutylammonium fluoride a reducing agent e.g. a palladium reducing agent such as hydrogen Pd C a metal acid agent e.g. a Zn acid such as Zn acetic acid or Zn HCl or ammonia.

The method includes contacting a hydroxyl deprotecting agent as described above with a compound having the formula 

An RRM2 luciferase fusion construct pR2Luc was administered alone or in combination with an RRM2 siRNA siR2B 5 by hydrodynamic tail vein injection HPTV plasmid 0.25 mg kg siRNA 1.25 mg kg to female BALB c mice implanted with human HepG2 liver cancer cells. In vivo bioluminescence imaging revealed potent down regulation within mouse liver cancer cells over multiple weeks . Mice receiving RRM2 in combination with RRM2 siRNA exhibited a significant decrease in tumor growth versus mice receiving RRM2 alone or in combination with control siRNA siCONTROL . These results suggest that RRM2 plays critical role in cancer growth and validates it as a therapeutic target.

RRM2 mRNA expression levels were measured by RT PCR in 35 human fresh frozen breast cancer biopsies and corresponding normal tissue samples. Optimal PCR primer and probe concentrations of RRM2 and actin housekeeping gene were determined to reach maximum efficiency during the amplification. The PCR reaction was performed in a 20 l final volume adding 1 L cDNA from each sample using TAQMAN PCR mix Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . A significant increase in RRM2 expression was observed in breast cancer tissue versus corresponding normal tissue p

Human oropharyngeal cancer KB wild type p53 and human prostate cancer PC3 truncated p53 cells were transfected with sense RRM2 KBM2 and PC3M2 respectively and control vector and the resulting overexpression of RRM2 was confirmed by Western blot analysis. Transfectants were applied to the upper layer of MATRIGEL in a Borden chamber. After 72 hours cells that invaded to the lower layer were fixed with alcohol stained with methylene blue and counted and examined. RRM2 transfected cells exhibited increased invasive potential in comparison to non transfected cells .

A diverse compound library from NCI Developmental Therapeutics Program DTP was subjected to a virtual screening process to identify potential RR inhibitors. The DTP library contains 2 000 different compounds. A novel ligand binding pocket on human RRM2 identified from the X ray crystal structure PDB 2UW2 was selected to identify potential inhibitor compounds that were in close proximity to the RRM1 RRM2 interface but distant from the dityrosyl diiron center in order to avoid iron chelating side effects. This ligand binding pocket which consists of 32 amino acid residues conserved among human and mouse RRM2 protein families is in close proximity to the RRM1 RRM2 interface. The structure of the ligand binding pocket is set forth in . The pocket consists of helices 7 8 and 10 at the C terminal domain. The narrow interior end of the V shaped pocket is lined up with hydrophobic residues near the back of dityrosyl diiron cluster center. Polar residues such as D271 R330 and E334 that are located near the open end of the pocket may potentially interact with the flexible C terminus. The pocket is lined mostly with interior hydrophobic residues with charged residues exposed to the surface.

Compounds that docked into the ligand binding pocket were identified using the TRIPOS FlexX docking tool and ranked using an embedded consensus docking score. The top 80 RR inhibitor candidates that exhibited a binding affinity equal to or greater than that of 3 AP in the virtual screen were subjected to an in vitro screen using a known semi high throughput holoenzyme based assay for determining the potency and subunit selectivity of small molecule inhibitors Shao 2005 . The assay utilized recombinant RRM1 RRM2 or RRM1 RRM2 complex and measured H CDP reduction activity i.e. CDP to dCDP by HPLC. Ten compounds exhibited the ability to inhibit native RRM1 RRM2 activity by greater than 50 in vitro and four of these compounds inhibited enzyme activity by 80 or more. Three of the four compounds exhibiting 80 inhibition shared a similar structural scaffold NCI 3 NSC 659390 and NSC 45382 and also showed better solubility and lower toxicity than the other tested compounds. NCI 3 dihydroxyphenylthiazole DHPT has the following structure 

A series of NCI 3 analogs were synthesized using the strategy set forth in . An additional 24 NCI 3 analogs were developed by attaching a variety of R groups to the aminothiazole group. Compounds generated in this manner included COH1 COH2 COH4 COH20 and COH29.

The ability of NCI 3 and the NCI 3 analogs synthesized in Example 2 to inhibit RR activity was tested using the in vitro holoenzyme assay described above. COH4 exhibited significant RR inhibition. COH20 was even more effective causing 90.2 inhibition of the recombinant RRM1 RRM2 complex in vitro . IC50 results for various compounds are set forth in Table 1.

In striking contrast to 3 AP inhibition of RR by COH20 was virtually unaffected by the addition of iron Table 2 .

Site directed mutagenesis Biacore analysis and NMR Saturation Transfer Difference STD analysis were carried out to validate the binding pocket and ligand protein interaction between COH20 and RRM2. RRM2 point mutants were generated by mutating certain key residues in the binding pocket. These residues included Y323 D271 R330 and E334 each of which are charged and reside on the surface of the binding pocket and G233 which sits deep in the pocket. Attenuation of inhibition in these mutants confirmed involvement of the mutated residues in ligand binding and validated the binding pocket. Interestingly the only mutation that did not attenuate inhibition was G233V. This suggests the presence of a hydrophobic pocket that is stabilized by introduction of a valine side chain.

To confirm that the ability of COH20 to inhibit RR activity was not specific to recombinant RR an assay was performed testing the effect of COH20 on intracellular RR. KB cells treated with 10 M COH20 were lysed and protein was extracted in a high salt buffer and passed through a G25 SEPHADEX column to remove small molecules such as dNTP. The eluate was mixed with H CDP in reaction buffer to monitor RR activity. Treatment with COH20 decreased intracellular RR activity by approximately 50 . Treatment with COH20 had no effect on RRM2 protein levels as measured by Western blot indicating that the effect of COH20 on RR activity is not due to a decrease in RRM2 expression.

dNTP pools from KB cells were measured by polymerase template assay following treatment with 10 M COH20. Pre and post treatment cell pellets were mixed with 100 l of 15 trichloroacetic acid incubated on ice for ten minutes and centrifuged at high speed for five minutes. Supernatants were collected and extracted with two 50 l aliquots of Freon trioctylamine 55 45 to neutralize the trichloroacetic acid. After each addition the samples were centrifuged at high speed and supernatant was collected. Two 5 l aliquots one for each duplicate of each sample were used to check dATP dCTP dGTP and dTTP concentrations. The reaction mixture in each tube contained 50 mM Tris HCL pH 7.5 10 mM MgCl 5 mM DTT 0.25 mM template primer 1.25 M H dATP for dCTP assay or H dTTP for dATP assay and 0.3 units of SEQUENASE 2.0 in a total volume of 50 pt. DNA synthesis was allowed to proceed for 20 minutes at room temperature. After incubation 40 l of each reaction mixture was spotted onto a WHATMAN DE81 ion exchange paper 2.4 cm diameter . The papers were dried for 30 60 minutes at room temperature washed with 5 NaHPO 3 10 minutes and rinsed once with distilled water and once more with 95 ethanol. Each paper was dried and deposited in a small vial and 5 ml of scintillation fluid was added to each vial. Tritium labeled dNTPs were counted using liquid scintillation counter and compared to standards prepared at 0.25 0.5 0.75 and 1.0 pmol L of dNTPs. For comparison duplicate sets of reactions were carried out with freshly added inhibitors. COH20 was found to decrease dATP dCTP dGTP and dTTP pools in KB cells indicating that inhibition of RR results in a concomitant decreased in dNTP production . Similar experiments will be performed using other cell lines.

The in vitro cytotoxicity of COH4 and COH20 towards human leukemia REH and MOLT 4 cells human prostate cancer LNCaP cells human oropharyngeal cancer KB cells and normal fibroblast NHDF cells was evaluated using an MTT assay. 5 000 cells were seeded on six well plates for 72 hours with various concentrations of drug. COH20 was cytotoxic to the cancer cell lines at less than 10 M while causing less cytotoxicity to normal cells than 3 AP. The results are summarized in Table 3. Results for LNCaP KB and NHDF are set forth in . Based on the broad range of cancer cell types against which COH20 exhibits cytotoxicity COH20 is expected to be cytotoxic to a variety of additional cancer cell types including colon cancer breast cancer lung cancer melanoma leukemia and lymphoma cells.

In vitro cytotoxicity assays were repeated using KBHURs an HU resistant clone derived from KB cells that overexpresses RRM2. COH20 was cytotoxic to KBHURs at significantly lower concentrations than the other RR inhibitors tested confirming that COH20 is capable of overcoming HU resistance . In addition COH20 was found to be cytotoxic to KBMDR a KB clone that overexpresses the MDR pump on the cell membrane at lower concentrations than 3 AP or HU . A real time proliferation assay confirmed that COH20 also inhibits cell proliferation in KBMDR cells . Similar experiments will be repeated using the gemcitabine resistant cell line KBGem which also overexpresses RRM2. Based on the results with other cell lines it is expected that COH20 will also exhibit cytotoxicity and growth inhibition towards KBGem.

The in vitro cytotoxicity of COH29 towards a panel of human cancer cell lines was tested using the MTT assay described above. COH29 significantly inhibited growth across a broad range of cancer cell types with an ICof less than about 10 M in all cell types tested except for colon cancer HT29 melanoma UACC 257 ovarian cancer NCI ADR RES and renal cancer CAKI 1 . Representative results are summarized in Table 4.

Flow cytometry and annexin staining were performed on KB cells treated with COH20 at 9 or 27 M or 3 AP at 3 M for 24 hours. These results showed that COH20 treatment arrests cells in S phase in a dose dependent manner . After treatment with COH20 for 72 hours annexin staining showed significant cell death indicating apoptosis . COH20 induced apoptosis with approximately the same potency as 3 AP.

COH20 was injected into three male rats at 1 mg kg for single dose pharmacokinetic evaluation. Elimination of COH20 from plasma was found to be tri exponential with a rapid initial decline phase possible tissue distribution or liver uptake followed by an intermediate phase combined distribution and elimination and a slower terminal phase elimination . The terminal half life T was approximately 5.5 hours. More detailed pharmacokinetic studies will be performed with various dosages of COH20 to establish parameters such as clearance bioavailability and tissue plasma partition coefficients.

Pharmacokinetic evaluation was performed on COH29 using the same techniques with COH29 administered at a dosage of 25 mg kg. Results from triplicate analysis are summarized in Table 5. Area under the curve AUC calculations showed COH29 acting in a dose dependent manner when administered by i.v. bolus .

In order to determine the maximal tolerated dose of COH20 COH20 was administered to mice intravenously at dosages ranging from 10 to 160 mg kg. Other than one mouse that died in the 160 mg kg group body weight remained stable for all treatment groups indicating that COH20 is a tolerable compound with minimal toxicity . There was no evidence of lethal iron chelation or induction of methemoglobulin further indicating that COH20 has no significant iron chelation side effects.

A Biacore T100 instrument was used to study the ligand protein interaction between COH20 or 3 AP and RRM2. Wild type RRM2 was isolated and immobilized onto CM4 sensor chips using standard amine coupling methods at 25 C. and a flow rate of 10 L minute. Specifically the carboxymethyl dextran surfaces of the flow cells were activated with a 7 min injection of a 1 1 ratio of 0.4 M N ethyl NO 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC and 0.1 M N hydroxysuccinimide NHS . RRM2 was diluted in 10 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 to 25 g ml and injected over target flow cell for target immobilization 8000RU. 10 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 buffer was injected into the reference flow cell for blank immobilization. The remaining activated surface was blocked with a 7 min injection of 1M ethanolamine HCl pH 8.5. Phosphate buffered saline PBS was used as a running buffer during immobilization. COH20 and 3 AP were dissolved in DMSO to prepare 100 mM stock solutions. The compounds were then diluted serially in running buffer PBS 1.5 DMSO 10 fold carboxymethyl dextran 0.002 Methyl 6 O N heptylcarbamoyl D glucoyranoside to the appropriate running concentrations. Samples were injected over the reference flow cell and target flow cell with immobilized RRM2 at a flow rate of 60 L min at 25 C. Association and dissociation were measured for 180 seconds and 60 seconds respectively. All compounds were tested in triplicate at five different concentrations. Concentration series for each compound were done at least twice. Within a given compound concentration series the samples were randomized to minimize systematic errors. Between samples the sensor chip was regenerated by injection of 0.3 SDS for 30 seconds. The results showed a significant interaction between COH20 and RRM2 but not between COH20 and 3 AP .

The Biacore T100 was also used to analyze the ability of COH20 to interfere with binding of RRM2 to RRM1. Fixed concentrations of RRM1 1 M in the absence and presence of a two fold dilution concentration series of COH20 3.125 25 M were injected over a reference flow cell and a target flow cell with immobilized RRM2 at a flow rate 30 L min at 25 C. Association and dissociation were measured for 90 seconds and 60 seconds respectively. Duplicates runs were performed using the same conditions. Between samples the sensor chip was regenerated by injection of 0.3 SDS 0.2 M NaCOfor 30 seconds. COH20 was found to interrupt the RRM1 RRM2 interaction at the interface .

The cytotoxic efficacy of COH20 will be tested in vivo using a mouse xenograft model. Xenograft tumor models will be created using human cancer cell lines such as KB KBHURs and KBGem. For establishment of the KB xenograft model 1 5 10KB cells in a volume of 0.1 ml saline will be injected into the right hind flank of 5 6 week old nude female mice. Tumor volume will be monitored twice weekly using digital calipers. When tumor volume reaches approximately 100 160 mm mice will be divided into groups of ten such that the median and mean body weight and tumor volume are roughly the same for all mice within a group. COH20 will be administered either 1 alone in a single dose to determine effective dosage 2 alone at various intervals for a scheduling study or 3 in combination with known cancer therapeutics such as chemotherapeutics. During a monitoring period of approximately four weeks changes in tumor cell growth body weight organ dysfunction and iron chelating side effects will be analyzed at various timepoints. Following the monitoring period mice will be euthanized and tissue tumor and plasma will be analyzed by visual and histological examination. Based on the cytotoxicity of COH20 towards various cancer cell lines in vitro it is expected that mice treated with COH20 will exhibit higher survival rates decreased tumor growth and fewer tumor related side effects e.g. weight loss organ dysfunction .

The structure of NCI 3 analogs such as COH20 and COH29 may be refined and optimized by generating various analogs and analyzing their binding to RRM2 and the RRM1 RRM2 complex using site directed mutagenesis studies Biacore analysis and NMR STD experiments. X ray crystallography studies may be performed to determine the three dimensional structure of the COH20 RRM2 complex. Using these tools additional RR inhibitors may be generated with higher potency greater selectivity and lower toxicity.

Additional hydrophobic interactions between the valine side chain and the bound ligand are believed to contribute to enhanced binding and inhibition suggesting that an additional hydrophobic side chain extending from COH20 could optimize binding affinity. Therefore COH20 analogs that contain these hydrophobic side chains e.g. COH1 COH2 COH4 COH29 compounds having Structure I and compounds selected from Group I are also likely to be RR inhibitors.

Intermediate 1 was synthesized in a reaction vessel equipped with a bubbler vented to a cold finger trap. Phenylacetyl chloride 151 mL 1.12 mol was added drop wise over 30 minutes to a stirring suspension of anhydrous AlCl 161 g 1.21 mol in dichloromethane DCM CHCl 600 mL at 0 C. under nitrogen. Veratrole 129 mL 1.00 mol was added drop wise over six hours maintaining the internal temperature below 10 C. Upon completion of addition the cooling bath was removed. After 16 hours at ambient temperature the reaction was cooled to 0 C. and quenched by drop wise addition of 2N HCl 700 mL while maintaining the internal temperature below 20 C. The organic layer was washed with water 600 mL and saturated aqueous NaHCO 500 mL filtered through CELITE and concentrated under reduced pressure to approximately 400 mL total volume. Hexanes 1.7 L were added and the product precipitated with vigorous stirring. The resulting solid was filtered and the filter cake was washed with hexanes 2 250 mL . The solid was dried in vacuo at 50 C. to afford 1 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 2 phenylethanone Intermediate 1 213 g 831 mmol 83 yield as an off white solid.

Intermediate 2 was synthesized in a reaction vessel equipped with a bubbler vented to a cold finger trap. Intermediate 1 213 g 831 mmol and pyridinium tribromide 315 g 886 mmol were dissolved in DCM 1.2 L under nitrogen. After five hours at ambient temperature the reaction mixture was cooled in an ice batch and quenched with water 750 mL while maintaining the internal temperature below 20 C. The organic layer was washed with water 750 mL and concentrated to dryness. The resulting slurry was taken up in ethanol 1.2 L and cooled to 20 C. and thiourea 114 g 1.48 mol was added. Upon addition completion the reaction was stirred at ambient temperature for 24 hours. The reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting slurry was partitioned between EtOAc 1.0 L and 2N NaOH 800 mL . The emulsion was allowed to separate and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 750 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 250 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was triturated with EtO 1.5 L and filtered and the filter cake was washed with EtO 200 mL . The product was dried in vacuo at 50 C. to afford 4 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 5 phenylthiazol 2 amine Intermediate 2 230 g 736 mmol 89 yield for 2 steps as a tan solid.

Intermediate 3 was synthesized in a reaction vessel equipped with a bubbler vented to a cold finger trap. Thionyl chloride 100 mL 1.36 mol was added drop wise over two hours to a cooled solution of 3 4 dimethoxybenzoic acid 250 g 1.36 mol in dimethylformamide DMF 20 mL in CHCl 1.0 L while maintaining an internal temperature below 15 C. After addition completion the reaction was stirred for three hours at ambient temperature then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. Acid chloride 164 g 818 mmol 1.5 eq was added portion wise to a stirring suspension of Intermediate 2 170 g 545 mmol 4 dimethylamino pyridine 4 DMAP 6.73 g 54.5 mmol 10 mol and EtN 384 mL 2.73 mol in DMF 1.0 L under nitrogen maintaining an internal temperature below 20 C. The reaction was stirred for 15 hours at ambient temperature then the remaining acid chloride 112 g 545 mmol was portion wise. After six hours at ambient temperature the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium NaHCO 500 mL washed with water 500 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was purified by flash chromatography 0 5 MeOH CHCl. The combined chromatographic fractions were concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The solid was dried in vacuo at 50 C. to afford N 4 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 5 phenylthiazol 2 yl 3 4 dimethoxybenzamide Intermediate 3 245 g 515 mmol 70 as an off white solid.

COH29 was synthesized in a reaction vessel equipped with a bubbler vented to a cold finger trap. Boron tribromide BBr 191 mL 1.98 mol was slowly added to a stirring solution of Intermediate 3 245 g 515 mmol in toluene 1.2 L under nitrogen maintaining the internal temperature below 15 C. Upon addition completion the reaction was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and stirred for five hours. The reaction mixture was cooled and slowly quenched with EtOH 800 mL while maintaining the internal temperature below 20 C. Upon addition completion the solution was stirred for two hours at ambient temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was triturated with DCM 1.0 L and filtered and the filter cake was washed with DCM 100 mL . The resulting solid was taken up in hot EtOH 400 mL and slowly added to water 2.4 L to induce precipitation. The resulting slurry was stirred for two hours at ambient temperature and filtered and the filter cake was washed with water 200 mL . This trituration process was repeated three additional times to afford an off white solid. The resulting solid was dried at 50 C. under vacuum for 24 hours then at 125 C. under vacuum for 24 hours to afford COH29 118 g 281 mmol 55 

As stated above the foregoing are merely intended to illustrate the various embodiments of the present invention. As such the specific modifications discussed above are not to be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various equivalents changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the invention and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are to be included herein. All references cited herein are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

29. Remington 2000 The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Gennaro ed. 20edition Williams Wilkins PA USA .

