---

title: Method and device for printing a scheduled print job
abstract: A method and apparatus for printing a scheduled print job by a printing device connected to a client device over a network. The method includes transmitting, by the client device, a request to print the scheduled print job to the printing device. The scheduled print job include print data and schedule data corresponding to a scheduled time the print data is to be printed. The printing device obtains the print job from cloud storage or from local storage depending on a storage selection indicator, and executes the scheduled print job at the scheduled time. A determination is made as to whether the scheduled print job was printed successfully at the scheduled time. Further, a message indicating whether the scheduled print job was printed successfully, based on the determination, is sent to a predetermined device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09588720&OS=09588720&RS=09588720
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09588720
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150506
---
This application is a Continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 600 916 entitled METHOD AND DEVICE FOR PRINTING A SCHEDULED PRINT JOB filed Aug. 31 2012 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 715 206 filed on Mar. 1 2010 and titled METHOD AND DEVICE FOR PRINTING A SCHEDULED PRINT JOB which application is incorporated by reference in its entirety into the present application for all purposes.

An embodiment relates generally to printing a scheduled print job. The present invention is more particularly related to monitoring and managing printing of the scheduled print job.

In environments such as an office or computer lab computers may be connected to one or more printing devices shared over a network. To print an electronic document a computer user typically transmits a request to print the electronic document to one of the shared printing devices. The shared printing device prints the electronic document in response to the print request and the computer user retrieves the printed electronic document from the shared printing device.

However in such environments it is difficult to maintain confidentiality of the printed electronic document. For example it is difficult to prevent other users from viewing the printed electronic document between the time the document is printed by the printing device and when the printed electronic document is retrieved by the computer user. Further there is also the risk that another user may accidentally remove the printed electronic document when picking up their own printed electronic document.

One embodiment is a printing device that includes a network control service a local storage device and a job scheduler. The network control service is configured to receive a request to print a scheduled print job the scheduled print job including a print job and scheduled print job attributes that include schedule data defining a scheduled time the print job is to be printed and a storage selection indicator. The local storage device is configured to store the print job and the scheduled print job attributes. The job scheduler is configured to obtain the print job from cloud storage or the local storage device depending on the storage selection indicator obtain the scheduled print job attributes from the local storage device enter in a scheduled job list in the printing device schedule data for the scheduled print job execute the scheduled print job at the scheduled time based on the schedule data determine whether or not the scheduled print job was printed successfully at the scheduled time and send to a specified device a message indicating whether or not the scheduled print job was printed successfully.

Embodiments may be implemented by instructions processed by one or more processors by one or more computer implemented methods or by devices or apparatuses configured accordingly.

However since the electronic document may be scheduled for printing at a later time and or date the user may forget to retrieve the printed electronic document at the scheduled time. The delayed printing may also make it difficult to confirm that necessary resources are available at the time of printing or to confirm that the electronic document was printed successfully. Further the user may need to modify the scheduled printing of the electronic document based on a change of circumstances prior to the scheduled printing time.

Print jobs need to be more scalable and accessible especially when the print device is connected to Internet or intranet. There is a need to overcome resource limitations on a printing device related to scheduled print job storage and accessibility of scheduled print jobs through a print device which is connected to the Internet or an intranet. is a block diagram that depicts an example scheduled printing system including client devices and e.g. a portable or desktop computer printing devices e.g. normal print devices and scheduled print device and e mail server connected to each other over a network .

The scheduled print device is a printing device on which a scheduled print application is deployed. Client devices and are used to submit print jobs of an immediate print type or a scheduled print type. When a client device submits a scheduled print job the print job is submitted along with scheduled print related commands and a time and or date at which the print job is to be printed. Further the e mail server allows the scheduled print device to send print job status information back to a user via e mail. As depicted in the scheduled printing system may include one or more normal print devices to which the print job can be distributed based on a command within the print job or to which print jobs can be routed in case there is an error in the scheduled print device while printing a scheduled print job.

The client device may include an application and a printer driver . Application may be any type of application executed on the client device . The application may include one or a combination of for example a word processing application spreadsheet application e mail client web browser portable document format PDF viewer image viewing editing software or any other application configured to generate data for processing by the scheduled print device . The printer driver is configured to provide a user interface for a user to request printing of a print job as further discussed below. The client device may provide user interfaces such as those depicted in . The printer driver is configured to process the data from the application and generate print data and or schedule data that is provided to the scheduled print device for processing.

The normal print device may include a print process . The print process may be implemented by one or more processes for printing a print job received from the client device or the scheduled print device .

The scheduled print device includes a print process which may be implemented by one or more processes for printing a print job received from the client device and a scheduled print application . The scheduled print application may include an operation panel user interface module a print job filter module a job scheduling module a web configuration module a web service API module a storage storing scheduled print job data and a notification module . However it is noted that one or more of the operation panel user interface module the print job filter module the job scheduling module the web configuration module the web service API module the storage storing scheduled print job data and the notification module may be provided separately from the scheduled print application .

The operation panel user interface module may be any mechanism and or medium that provides for the exchange of information between a user and the scheduled print device such that the user may view scheduled print jobs and override one or more corresponding print schedules based on a user input. The user may override the print schedule by changing a scheduled print time or by requesting immediate printing of a scheduled print job. Alternatively the user may request deletion of the scheduled print job. Example user interfaces provided by the operation panel user interface module are depicted in .

The print job filter module parses a print job and identifies if the print job received by the scheduled print device is a scheduled print job or a regular print job based on for example scheduled print related commands. If the print job is of the scheduled type the print job filter module stores the print job in the storage for further processing and creates a schedule for the job scheduling module . Alternatively the schedule may be created by the job scheduling module or other separate module. The job scheduling module maintains and executes a list of scheduled print jobs stored in the scheduled print device . The job scheduling module can be accessed from an operation panel of the scheduled print device through a web configuration module or web service API module to modify or delete scheduled print jobs. Further the job scheduling module may forward the scheduled print job to one or more normal print devices for printing based on whether multiple destinations are designated for the scheduled print job or the scheduled print job cannot be completed due to an error e.g. due to a lack of resources including paper toner oil etc. in the scheduled print device . In other embodiments the scheduled print job is forwarded by another separate module such as a dedicated scheduled print job forwarding module.

The web configuration module may be implemented by an mechanism or process for generating Web pages which allows a user or an administrator to remotely configure and manage e.g. request immediate printing of modify or delete scheduled print jobs the scheduled print application . The web service API module exposes scheduled print data as a Web Service from the scheduled print device . For example by accessing the web service API module a client application running on for example a personal computer can collect data from the scheduled print application. Further the client application can also collect data from multiple devices e.g. a plurality of scheduled print devices by accessing the web service APIs of the respective multiple devices. For example the web service API can be used to create a dashboard application to collect scheduled print job information from a plurality of scheduled print devices .

The scheduled print device also includes storage which is configured to store the scheduled print job data received from the client device and data related to the scheduled print job. In one embodiment the scheduled print job data includes schedule data defining a time and or date when the print job is to be printed. In other embodiments the schedule data includes information that the scheduled print device uses to automatically determine the time and or date when the print job is to be printed. For example a time and or date may be automatically determined based on schedule data including an identity of the user requesting the print job the size of the print job a priority of the print job a location from which the print job is requested a code corresponding to a time and or date etc.

The notification module notifies the user requesting the scheduled print job of a status of the scheduled print job or the device e.g. if there is any error etc. . The notification module may notify the user through e mail short message service SMS instant message service 1M tweet or a pop up message sent to the client device or other specified device when the scheduled print job is completed or if the scheduled print job was not able to be completed at a specified time due to an error in the scheduled print device .

For example the notification module may generate and send a message indicating whether the scheduled print job was completed successfully at a scheduled time. When the scheduled print job is completed successfully the notification module generates and sends a message confirming that the scheduled print job was printed successfully. When the scheduled print job was not completed successfully the notification module may generate and send a message indicating an error. The error message may further specify a rescheduled time or alternative print device e.g. normal print device for printing the scheduled print job.

In one embodiment the notification module may generate a reminder message to remind a user that the scheduled print job is scheduled to be printed at the scheduled time. For example the notification module may generate a message reminding a user that the scheduled print job will be printed in X minutes. The message may optionally include a link or other mechanism to allow the user to modify or delete the scheduled print job prior to the scheduled print time. The user may modify or delete the scheduled print job for example by accessing the web service API module .

As discussed above the message generated by the notification module may be sent to a user for example via an e mail. Further the message may be sent using a text messaging system such as SMS. In an alternative embodiment the message may be sent using an instant messaging service such as the AOL Google Yahoo or Blackberry instant messaging services. The message may be addressed to a designated user by for example e mail address or IM identifier. Alternatively the message may be addressed to a designated user device by for example IP address mobile phone number home phone number network identifier etc. The addressing information may be included in the scheduled print job or determined based on information such as a user ID included in the scheduled print job.

The e mail server may include an e mail application and an e mail storage . The e mail application is installed on the e mail server and provides e mail services. The e mail server may exchange information with the client device the scheduled print device and or other user device using one or a variety of different protocols. The different protocols may include for example the Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Post Office Protocol 3 POP 3 Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP or the HTTP protocol. The e mail storage stores e mail messages addressed to one or more users.

However it is noted that the e mail server is not required in embodiments in which the message generated by the notification module is not sent via e mail. For example when the message generated by the notification module is sent via SMS or IM the scheduled printing system may include a SMS service provider or IM service provider respectively.

The computer system may also include a disk controller coupled to the bus B to control one or more storage devices for storing information and instructions such as mass storage which may be a hard disk drive for example and drive device e.g. floppy disk drive read only optical disc drive read write optical disc drive optical disc jukebox tape drive flash memory or a flash memory based drive and removable magneto optical drive . The storage devices may be added to the computer system using an appropriate device interface e.g. small computer system interface SCSI integrated device electronics IDE enhanced IDE E IDE direct memory access DMA or ultra DMA .

The computer system may also include special purpose logic devices e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs or configurable logic devices e.g. simple programmable logic devices SPLDs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs and field programmable gate arrays FPGAs in order to carry out the desired functionality.

The computer system may also include a display controller coupled to the bus B to control a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT organic light emitting diode OLED display liquid crystal display LCD or projector for displaying information to a computer user. The computer system may include input devices such as a keyboard pointing device or touch display for interacting with a computer user and providing information to the CPU . The pointing device for example may be a mouse a trackball or a pointing stick for communicating direction information and command selections to the CPU and for controlling cursor movement on the display. In addition a printer may provide printed listings of data stored and or generated by the computer system.

The computer system performs a portion or all of the processing steps in response to the CPU executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in a memory such as the memory unit . Such instructions may be read into the memory unit from another computer readable medium such as the mass storage or a removable media One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in the memory unit or the removable media . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

As stated above the computer system includes at least one removable media which is a computer readable medium or memory for holding instructions programmed according to the teachings described herein and for containing data structures tables records or other data described herein. Examples of computer readable media are compact discs hard disks floppy disks tape magneto optical disks PROMs EPROM EEPROM flash EPROM DRAM SRAM SDRAM or any other magnetic medium optical discs e.g. CD ROM or any other storage medium from which a computer can read.

Stored on any one or on a combination of computer readable media is software for controlling the computer system for driving a device or devices and for enabling the computer system to interact with a human user. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems development tools and applications software. Such computer readable media further includes the computer program product for performing all or a portion if processing is distributed of the processing described herein.

The computer code devices may be any interpretable or executable code mechanism including but not limited to scripts interpretable programs dynamic link libraries DLLs Java classes and complete executable programs. Moreover parts of the processing may be distributed for better performance reliability and or cost.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the CPU for execution. A computer readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical magnetic disks and magneto optical disks such as the mass storage or the removable media . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the memory unit .

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying out one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the CPU for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions remotely into a dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system may receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector coupled to the bus B can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and place the data on the bus B. The bus B carries the data to the memory unit from which the CPU retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the memory unit may optionally be stored on mass storage either before or after execution by the CPU .

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to the bus B. The communication interface provides two way data communication coupling to a network that is connected to for example a LAN or to another communications network such as the Internet. For example the communication interface may be a network interface card to attach to any packet switched LAN. As another example the communication interface may be an asymmetrical digital subscriber line ADSL card an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communications line. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation the communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. However in other embodiments the communication interface may simply provide for one way data communication.

The network typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network may provide a connection to another computer through a local network e.g. a LAN or through equipment operated by a service provider which provides communication services through a communications network. The local network and the communications network use for example electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams and the associated physical layer e.g. CAT 5 cable CAT 6 cable coaxial cable optical fiber etc. . The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network and through the communication interface which carry the digital data to and from the computer system may be implemented in baseband signals or carrier wave based signals. The baseband signals convey the digital data as unmodulated electrical pulses that are descriptive of a stream of digital data bits where the term bits is to be construed broadly to mean symbol where each symbol conveys at least one or more information bits. The digital data may also be used to modulate a carrier wave such as with amplitude phase and or frequency shift keyed signals that are propagated over a conductive media or transmitted as electromagnetic waves through a propagation medium Thus the digital data may be sent as un modulated baseband data through a wired communication channel and or sent within a specified frequency band different than baseband by modulating a carrier wave. The computer system can transmit and receive data including program code through the network and the communication interface . Moreover the network may provide a connection to a mobile device such as a personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer or cellular telephone.

Alternatively the client device may be implemented in a digital copier printer multi function machine MFP as further discussed below. For example the client device may capture an image which is transmitted to the scheduled print device for printing. In other embodiments the scheduled print job may he requested at the scheduled print device .

Similar to the computer system discussed above the normal print device and or scheduled print device may perform a portion of or all processing steps in response to the CPU executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in a memory such as the ROM or of one of the memory types discussed above with respect to the computer system . The instructions may be read into the memory from another computer readable medium as discussed above such as mass storage or removable media. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in the memory. In alternative embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

There is provided a multi port communication interface which allows the normal print device and or scheduled print device to communicate with external devices. Reference numeral represents a telephone or other communication line including a wireless channel. Reference number represents a wired communication line such as a wired telephone or Ethernet connection. Further information of the multi port communication interface is described with respect to . An interface controller is used to connect an operation panel to a system bus . The operation panel includes standard input and output devices found on a digital copier printer multi function machine or business office appliance including some function buttons such as reduce enlarge and numeric buttons etc. Additionally a liquid crystal display or other displays as discussed above may be included within the operation panel to display parameters and messages of the apparatus. The operation panel also can be a touch panel in which the display and function buttons may change according to the context.

A local connection interface is a connection through a local port such as RS232 USB and IEEE 1394. This interface allows external devices to be attached to the apparatus.

A storage interface connects storage devices to the system bus . The storage devices include a flash memory and a disk . There is a connection connected to the storage interface which allows for additional memory devices to be connected. The flash memory is used to store semi static data which describes parameters of the device which infrequently change over the life of the apparatus including the option configuration network access parameters and work group and also can be used to store dynamic data that describes parameters dynamically changing such as print count. An option interface allows additional option devices to be attached and controlled. A clock timer is utilized to keep track of both the time and date and also to measure elapsed time.

On the left side of the various sections making up the normal print device and or scheduled print device are depicted. Reference numeral designates a sorter and contains sensors and actuators used to sort the output of the flotilla print device and or scheduled print device . There is a duplexer that allows a duplex operation to be performed and includes conventional sensors and actuators. The normal print device and or scheduled print device includes a large capacity tray unit that allows paper trays holding a large number of sheets to be used. The large capacity tray unit includes conventional sensors and actuators.

A paper feed controller is used to control the operation of feeding paper into and through the normal print device and or scheduled print device . A scanner is used to scan images into the normal print device and or scheduled print device and includes a control system of conventional scanning elements such as a light mirror etc. Additionally scanner sensors are used such as a home position sensor to determine that the scanner is in the home position and a lamp thermistor is used to ensure proper operation of the scanning lamp. There is a printer imager which prints the output of the normal print device and or scheduled print device and includes a conventional laser printing mechanism a toner sensor and an image density sensor. The fuser is used to fuse the toner onto the page using a high temperature roller and includes an exit sensor a thermistor to assure that the fuser is not over heating and an oil sensor. Additionally there is an optional unit interface used to connect optional units such as an automatic document feeder a different type of sorter collator or other elements that can be added to the normal print device and or scheduled print device .

The CPU or other microprocessor or circuitry executes a monitoring process to monitor the state of each of the sensors of the normal print device and or scheduled print device and a sequencing process is used to execute the instructions of the code used to control and operate the normal print device and or scheduled print device . Additionally there is 1 a central system control process executed to control the overall operation of the normal print device and or scheduled print device and 2 a communication process used to assure reliable communication to external devices connected to the flotilla print device and or scheduled print device . The system control process monitors and controls data storage in a static state e.g. the ROM of a semi static state e.g. the flash memory or disk or a dynamic state e.g. a volatile or non volatile memory the RAM or the flash memory or disk .

The above details have been described with respect to a digital copier printer multi function machine but this embodiment is equally applicable to other business office machines or devices such as an analog copier a facsimile machine a printer a facsimile server or other business office machines and business office appliances that are configured to store data for future processing.

Further the scheduled print job filter encryption module extracts e mail and or mobile phone number information from the print job. The scheduled print job filter encryption module sends the extracted e mail information to an SMTP client module which e mails scheduled print job status information based on the extracted email information and the extracted mobile phone number information to SMS module which sends a text message including the scheduled print job status information based on the extracted mobile phone number information. If the scheduled print job filter encryption module determines that the print job is not a scheduled print job the scheduled print job filter encryption module returns the print job to the print system PDL interpreter which interprets print data e.g. PDL data included in the print job and prints the print data associated with the print job. In one embodiment the SMTP client module and the SMS module are included in the job scheduler . Alternatively the SMTP client module and or the SMS module may be provided separate from the job scheduler .

An operation panel user interface module is configured to provide an interface for a user to access scheduled print jobs stored in the scheduled print device . When the user operates the operation panel user interface module the user enters a user ID and corresponding authentication information. depicts an example interface for the user to enter the user ID and corresponding authentication information. In other embodiments a user may access the scheduled print jobs through other authenticating methods that may be based on the user s voice biometric information etc. After the user ID and the authentication information are inputted by the user or the user is authenticated by other methods the operation panel user interface module retrieves scheduled print jobs associated with the user from the Job DB . In one embodiment the scheduled print jobs are retrieved according to a user ID.

The retrieved scheduled print jobs are displayed to the user for example as depicted in B. After one or more scheduled print jobs are selected by the user the operation panel user interface module performs a user requested action on the selected one or more scheduled print jobs. For example when the user requests that one or more scheduled print jobs be printed immediately the operation panel user interface module pulls the selected one or more scheduled print jobs from the Job DB and sends the one or more scheduled print jobs to the Diprint 9100 module . The Diprint 9100 module forwards the one or more print jobs to the print system PDL interpreter which prints the print data associated with the one or more scheduled print jobs. When the print system PDL interpreter is aware that the print job is not a scheduled print job the print job may be printed without being forwarded to the scheduled print job filter encryption module . Further the user may request that the one or more scheduled print jobs be deleted or modified as further discussed below.

The scheduled print web configuration module and the web service API module may connect to a user application or an administrator application using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or the hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS . However in other embodiments the user application or the administrator application may connect to the scheduled print web configuration module and the web service API module using other communication protocols such as the file transfer protocol FTP the simple object access protocol SOAP or representational state transfer REST . As discussed above the user application or the administrator application may connect to the scheduled print web configuration module and the web service API module to manage e.g. configuration information edit or delete scheduled print jobs etc. the scheduled print device or the scheduled print jobs stored therein or to access status information such as a job log and error log stored on the scheduled print device . As noted above in one embodiment the scheduled print jobs may be managed using the user interfaces depicted in .

In step S the scheduled print device receives the request to print the scheduled print job from the client device . The scheduled print device stores the received scheduled print job in memory in step S. In step S the scheduled print device executes the scheduled print job at the scheduled time. The scheduled print device in step S determines whether the scheduled print job was printed successfully. After determining whether the scheduled print job was printed successfully the scheduled print device sends a message indicating whether the scheduled print job was printed successfully to a specified device or user such as the client device or other device associated with a user designated to receive the message.

The Scheduled Print Details window includes a user ID field password field e mail address field mobile number field scheduled date field scheduled time field distribute selection box and details button . A user may access the scheduled print application on the scheduled print device using the user ID and or password entered into user ID field and password field respectively. The e mail address field and mobile number field when provided with appropriate information are used by the scheduled print device to provide job status notifications to a specified device or designated user. The scheduled date and time fields and define the date and time when the scheduled print job should be printed. Further the distribute selection box enables job distribution to selected one or more printing devices e.g. normal print devices . The one or more printing devices may be designated for example by selecting details button which causes a Scheduled Print Distribute Details window to be displayed to the user. In the Scheduled Print Distribute Details window fields are provided for printers respectively to which the scheduled print job may be distributed. However other embodiments may provide fields for one or more printers not limited to ten printers. The printers may be designated using an IP address host name or any other information used by the scheduled print device to address the printers. Further the information identifying the printers may be manually entered into the printer fields selected from a list of available printers or automatically populated based on specified criteria such as user ID. When communication methods other than e mail or SMS are employed for the providing the scheduled print job notifications the e mail address filed and or mobile number fields and can be modified to accept information for sending the scheduled print job notifications according to the other communication methods.

On the other hand when the print job is a scheduled print job the scheduled print device parses the PJL commands comments that are generated by the printer driver of the client device in step S. In step S a unique JobID is created and job information corresponding to the print job is stored into the Job Schedule Database. After the job information corresponding to the print job is stored in steps S or S the print job is encrypted and stored in the scheduled print device . Further the scheduled print job is added to the job scheduler of the scheduled print device .

For example the Job Scheduler accesses the scheduled job list in step S and retrieves a scheduled print job from the scheduled job list in step S. The Job Scheduler determines whether the current time is greater than or equal to the scheduled time for printing the scheduled print job in step S. If the current time is greater than or equal to the scheduled time a job execution thread for the scheduled print job is started and the scheduled print job is removed from the scheduled job list in step S. If the current time is determined to be less than the scheduled time in step S or after the job execution thread is executed in step S the Job Scheduler sleeps for a specified period of time e.g. one minute in step S. After sleeping for the specified period of time in step S the Job Scheduler repeats the process beginning at step S.

In step S the scheduled print job is sent to local host port 9100 e.g. DiPrint 9100 depicted in . In step S the job execution thread determines whether the scheduled print job was completed successfully. If the scheduled print job is completed successfully the job execution thread determines whether the scheduled print job is to be distributed to any other printing devices in step S. For example the job execution thread determines whether the scheduled job attributes include at least one printing device address or host name to which the scheduled print job should be distributed. If the scheduled job attributes is determined to include at least one printing device address or host name the scheduled print job sent to port 9100 of each of the at least one printing devices in step S. In step S an e mail and or text message indicating whether the scheduled print job was printed successfully is created and sent. After creating and sending the e mail and or text message the scheduled print job is deleted in step S.

On the other hand if the print job is determined not to have been completed in step S the job execution thread determines whether an error occurred while printing the scheduled print job in step S. If an error did not occur while printing the scheduled print job the job execution thread returns to step S at which time the job execution thread again determines whether the print job has been completed. However if an error is determined to have occurred in step S the job execution thread determines whether an alternate printer for printing the scheduled print job exists in step S. If an alternate printer does not exist in step S a notification may optionally be sent to an administrator or any other designated party. If an alternate printer does exist the job execution thread is sent to port 9100 of the alternate printer. The process then proceeds to step S as discussed above.

An example Scheduled Print Configuration screen is depicted in . In the administrator may input the threshold of pages for immediate print e.g. 100 pages . Further the administrator may enter an alternate printer address e.g. 172.30.2.220 administrator or other designated party e mail address e.g. admin acme.com and define off peak hours e.g. 7 00 PM to 6 00 AM . However it should be noted that the Scheduled Print Configuration screen is not so limited. For example the page threshold may be defined by other information indicative of resources used for printing a scheduled print job such as an estimated print time toner requirements resolution requirements etc. Further the administrator may optionally define a plurality of alternate printer addresses administrator or designated party e mail addresses or off peak hours. Alternatively the off peak hours may be automatically determined based on printing history information or the like.

For example the web service API can be accessed via the Internet using a uniform resource locator URL such as

In one embodiment the web service API accepts the following parameters 1 command and 2 clientid which are mandatory parameters. For example the Administrator Dashboard may access scheduled job information of a scheduled print device using the following request 

In response to a web service API request the web service API of the scheduled print device processes the request and returns a web service API response. depicts an example generic XML message included in the web service API response that is returned to the Administrator Dashboard when the command submitted with the web service API request is invalid. depicts additional example response codes and their corresponding descriptions.

In the is a generic example and depends on the actual command requested. In one example if the command is scheduledjobs then the response depicted in would be modified as follows 

In the above example response the is a generic example. An example of the actual information included in the example web service API response for the command scheduledjobs is depicted in .

In operation when a client device submits a scheduled print job the print job is submitted along with scheduled print related commands and a time and or date at which the print job is to be printed. During and at the end of the job email server sends status information back to the user. The normal print devices allow the print job to be distributed based on a command within the print job or to which print jobs can be routed in case there is an error in the scheduled print device while printing a scheduled print job.

The NCS is coupled to the Print System PDL interpreter and the Operation Panel User Interface Module and includes Diprint 9100 Module which receives information from the Job Scheduler . The Print System PDL Interpreter is additionally coupled to the Scheduled Print Job Filter Encryption Module . The Schedule Print Job Filter Encryption Module is additionally coupled to the Job DB and the Cloud Storage. The Job DB is additionally coupled to the Operation Panel User Interface Module the Job Scheduler and the Web Configuration module and Web Service API module . The Job Scheduler is additionally coupled to Cloud Storage in . The Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP client module and or the Short Message Service SMS module .

In operation the NCS receives a print job from the printer driver of the client device which is connected to a TCP port e.g. port 9100 of the scheduled print device . After receiving the print job the NCS transfers the print job to the Print System PDL Interpreter which forwards the print job to the Scheduled Print Job Filter Encryption Module . The Scheduled Print Job Filter Encryption module determines whether or not the print job is a scheduled print job. If the print job is determined to be a scheduled print job based on inclusion of scheduled data then the Scheduled Print Job Filter Encryption Module stores the print job in the Job DB or in Cloud Storage depending on instructions in the print job control language PJL . In another embodiment the Scheduled Print Job Filter Encryption module encrypts the print job and stores the encrypted print job in the local storage Job DB or in Cloud Storage depending on instructions in the print job control language PJL .

Job Scheduler accesses the Job DB or Cloud Storage depending on the job information for the particular scheduled job to obtain the stored print job and adds the print job to its own list of print jobs stored in the Job DB of scheduled print device . Job Scheduler then executes the scheduled print job at the appropriate time.

If the scheduled print job filter encryption module determines that the print job is not a scheduled print job then the scheduled print job filter encryption module returns the print job to the Print System PDL interpreter which interprets the print data i.e. the PDL data included in the print job and prints the print data associated with the print job.

The Scheduled Print Job filter Encryption Module extracts e mail and or mobile phone number information from the print job and sends the extracted e mail information to the SMTP client module . Based on the extracted email information and the extracted mobile phone number information the SMPT client module uses an API which accepts a recipient s email ID to send e mails with scheduled print job status information to the SMS module which sends a text message including the scheduled print job status information based on the extracted mobile phone number information.

The Operation Panel User Interface Module is configured to provide an interface for a user to access scheduled print jobs stored in the scheduled print device . When the user operates the Operation Panel User Interface Module the user enters a user ID and corresponding authentication information. depicts an example interface for the user to enter the user ID and corresponding authentication information. In other embodiments a user accesses the scheduled print jobs through other authenticating methods that may be based on the user s voice and or biometric information. After the user provides the user ID and the authentication information or the user is authenticated by other methods Operation Panel User Interface Module retrieves scheduled print jobs associated with the user from the Job DB . In one embodiment the scheduled print jobs are retrieved according to a user ID.

The retrieved scheduled print jobs are displayed to the user for example as depicted in B. After the user selects one or more scheduled print jobs the Operation Panel User Interface Module performs a user requested action on the selected one or more scheduled print jobs. For example when the user requests that one or more scheduled print jobs be printed immediately the Operation Panel User Interface Module pulls the selected one or more scheduled print jobs from the Job DB and sends the one or more scheduled print jobs to the Diprint 9100 module . The Diprint 9100 module forwards the one or more print jobs to the print system PDL interpreter which prints the print data associated with the one or more scheduled print jobs. When the print system PDL interpreter is aware that the print job is not a scheduled print job the print job is printed without being forwarded to the scheduled print job filter encryption module . Further the user may request that the one or more scheduled print jobs be deleted or modified as previously described.

The a Scheduled Print Web Configuration Module and the Web Service API Module connects to a user application or an administrator application using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or the hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS . However in other embodiments the user application or the administrator application connects to the Scheduled Print Web Configuration Module and the Web Service API Module using other communication protocols such as the file transfer protocol FTP the simple object access protocol SOAP or representational state transfer REST . As discussed above the user application or the administrator application connects to the scheduled print web configuration module and the web service API module to manage e.g. configuration information edit or delete scheduled print jobs etc. the scheduled print device or the scheduled print jobs stored therein or to access status information such as a job log and error log stored on the scheduled print device . As noted above in one embodiment the scheduled print jobs can be managed using the user interfaces depicted in .

The Printing Preferences window in allows the user to define several printing options including whether the print job is to be of the scheduled print type in a drop down window . For print jobs of the scheduled print type the user may define further details by for example selecting the details button . When the user selects the details button a Scheduled Print Details window is displayed.

The Scheduled Print Details window depicted in includes a user ID field password field e mail address field mobile number field scheduled date field scheduled time field distribute selection box and details button . A user may access the scheduled print application on the scheduled print device using the user ID and or password entered into user ID field and password field respectively. The e mail address field and mobile number field when provided with appropriate information are used by the scheduled print device to provide job status notifications to a specified device or designated user. The scheduled date field and time field define the date and time when the scheduled print job should be printed. The storage selection button indicates that the storage location of the print job is local storage on the print device and the storage selection button indicates that the storage location of the print job is Cloud Storage. Based on this selection appropriate job control language commands are sent to the printer. Further the distribute selection box enables job distribution to selected one or more printing devices e.g. normal print devices . The one or more printing devices may be designated for example by selecting details button which causes a Scheduled Print Distribute Details window to be displayed to the user.

As depicted in the scheduled print device first identifies the number of pages in the received print job in step .

In step the scheduled print device determines whether the print job is a scheduled print job by for example determining whether the PJL commands comments associated with the print job includes PDL SCHEDULEJOB . Alternatively the scheduled print device determines whether the print job is a scheduled print job based on other specified information stored in the PJL commands comments.

If the print job is determined not to be a scheduled print job the number of pages determined in step dictates how the print device responds. The scheduled print device determines whether the number of pages in the print job exceeds a threshold for immediate print in step . If the number of pages in the print job does not exceed the threshold then the print job is sent in step to the print system for printing. However if the number of pages in the print job exceeds the threshold the print job is scheduled in step for off peak printing and job information corresponding to the print job is created and stored into a Job Schedule Database.

On the other hand if the print job is a scheduled print job then the PJL instructions determine how the print device responds. In step the scheduled print device parses the PJL commands comments that are generated by the printer driver of the client device . In step a unique JobID is created and job information corresponding to the print job is stored into the Job Schedule Database. After the job information corresponding to the print job is stored in either steps or the print job is encrypted and stored in step in the scheduled print device . Further the scheduled print job is added to the job scheduler of the scheduled print device .

In step the scheduled print device determines that the field CLOUDSTORAGE is present in the PJL commands. Based on the field the job is stored in step either in Cloud Storage or stored in step in local storage on the printer. The Job Filter Module also stores the filename path of the print job in to CloudStorageInfo field in the database.

In step the job execution thread determines whether the scheduled print job was completed successfully. If the scheduled print job did not complete successfully as determined in step then the job execution thread determines whether an error occurred while printing the scheduled print job in step .

If a printer error did not occur while printing the scheduled print job the job execution thread returns to step at which time the job execution thread again determines whether the print job has been completed.

If a printer error did occur while printing the scheduled print job the job execution thread determines whether an alternate printer for printing the scheduled print job exists in step . If an alternate printer does not exist in step a notification may optionally be sent to an administrator or any other designated party. If an alternate printer does exist the job execution thread in step is sent to port 9100 of the alternate printer.

If the scheduled print job is completed successfully or printer error occurred then in step the job execution thread determines whether the scheduled print job is to be distributed to any other printing devices. For example the job execution thread determines whether the scheduled job attributes include at least one printing device address or host name to which the scheduled print job should be distributed. If the scheduled job attributes are determined to include at least one printing device address or host name the scheduled print job sent to port 9100 of each of the at least one printing devices in step .

In step an e mail and or text message indicating whether the scheduled print job was printed successfully is created and sent.

After creating and sending the e mail and or text message the scheduled print job is deleted in step .

Numerous modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.

