---

title: Presenting additional content items to a social networking system user based on receiving an indication of boredom
abstract: A social networking system presents content items to a user and determines if the user has less than at threshold level of interest in the presented content items based on one or more user interactions with the presented content items. For example, the social networking system determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items if at threshold number of requests for content are received within a time interval. If the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items, the social networking system identifies additional content items to present to the user, and may also identify content items previously presented to the user. Content is selected form the additional content items or from the previously presented content items and presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09553939&OS=09553939&RS=09553939
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09553939
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150123
---
This disclosure relates generally to social networking systems and in particular to presenting content to users of a social networking system.

Users of a social networking system share their interests and engage with other users of the social networking system by sharing or generating content items such as photographs status updates and playing social games. While this allows users to easily exchange information with other social networking system users the amount of information gathered from users is staggering. This causes a social networking system to receive a large amount of information from users describing a wide range of events ranging from events including recent moves to a new city graduations births engagements marriages and the like as well as more mundane content such as status messages information about what music has been listened to by users and recent check in events at coffee shops.

A social networking system presents various content items to a user based on the information it receives from other users. For example the social networking system presents a user with content items describing various actions performed by other social networking system users. Because of the large amount of information received by a social networking system a large number of content items may be presented to a user. However a user may become bored with a set of content items presented by the social networking system during a time period for example because the user may have already consumed the available content items. This may impair user experience which may cause the user to interact less frequently with the social networking system.

A social networking system presents content items to a user of the social networking system. For example the social networking system presents content items to the user via a news feed. Additionally the social networking system maintains a view state identifying the content items and an order in which the identified content items are presented to the user. For example the news feed includes multiple positions with each content item presented in a position so a view state identifies a content item presented to the user and a position in the news feed in which the content item was presented. Examples of content items presented by the social networking system include stories describing actions of other social networking system users and sponsored content such as advertisements.

In one embodiment content items are presented to a user of the social networking system via an application executing on a client device. For example the application presents a news feed including various content items selected by the social networking system to the user. The application executing on the client device monitors interactions with the client device received from the user and determines whether the user has at least a threshold level of interest in the content items presented by the application. If the user performs an action that suggests less than the threshold level of interest in the content items the application generates an indication of boredom associated with the user. For example if the application receives greater than a threshold number of a specific type of interaction form the user e.g. requests to refresh content or requests to retrieve additional content within a threshold period of time the application generates an indication of boredom associated with the user. If the application generates an indication of boredom associated with the user the application sends a request from the client device to the social networking system for additional content to present to the user. Alternatively the social networking system rather than the application determines whether to associate an indication of boredom associated with the user. For example the social networking system associates an indication of boredom associated with the user if the social networking system receives more than a threshold number of requests for additional content items to present to the user from the application or from the client device within a threshold period of time.

If an indication of boredom is associated with the user the social networking system identifies additional content items to present to the user or identifies content items previously selected for presentation to the user but not displayed to the user to again present to the user. For example the social networking system identifies newly generated content items and previously generated content items that were not previously selected to present to the user as additional content items to again present to the user via a news feed and generates scores for the additional content items and the previously presented content items. Scores associated with additional content items or with previously presented content items may be modified based on an indication of boredom associated with the user. Based on the scores the social networking system ranks the additional content items and the previously presented content items and selects a set of the ranked content items to present to the user via the news feed. Thus the social networking system provides alternative content items via the news feed presented to a user associated with an indication of boredom to encourage user interaction with content presented via the news feed. For example the social networking system identifies content items that were previously selected for presentation to the user but not previously displayed or otherwise presented to the user and displays one or more of the identified content items to the user by including the identified content items that were selected for presentation but not displayed in positions of the news feed where they are displayed when the social networking system determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the content items currently displayed to the user by the news feed. Hence when the social networking system determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in presented content items the social networking system repositions content items selected for presentation to the user so content items previously selected for presentation but not presented to the user are presented to the user.

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The client devices are one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone or another suitable device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . In one example the application executing on the client device communicates instructions or requests for content items from the social networking system to modify content presented to a user of the client device . As another example the application is a browser application that receives web pages including content items from the social networking system and presents the web pages to a user of the client device . In another embodiment the client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

In addition to presenting content items to the user of the client device the application may also monitor the various user interactions with the client device or with the application and user input received from the user with respect to content presented to the user by the application . For example the application monitors when a user interacts with an interface element e.g. a button presented to the user for requesting additional content from the social networking system or when the user performs a gesture or other interaction with the client device to request additional content from the social networking system . Based on the monitored user interactions the application may determine one or more characteristic behaviors associated with the user. For example based on the monitored user interactions the application determines whether the user has at least a threshold level of interest in content presented by the application . In one embodiment the application may apply a model to the monitored interactions that determines a level of interest in content presented by the application based on types of interactions performed by the user a frequency with which different types of interactions are performed by the user and other suitable information. Certain types of interactions by the user may occur when the user has less than a threshold level of interest in content being presented by the application . For example the user may repeatedly provide an input to the application to request additional or new content from the social networking system within a given period of time when the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the content presented by the application . If the application determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the content presented by the application the application may associate an indication of boredom with the user and communicate the indication of boredom to the social networking system as further described below in conjunction with .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system which is further described below in conjunction with . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by a client device or communicating data to client devices for use by an application executing on the client device. In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . A third party system may also communicate information to the social networking system such as advertisements content or information about an application provided by the third party system .

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding social networking system user. Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with information identifying social networking system users displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing individuals to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

The content store stores objects that each represent various types of content. Examples of content represented by an object include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a brand page or any other type of content. Social networking system users may create objects stored by the content store such as status updates photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system events groups or applications. In some embodiments objects are received from third party applications or third party applications separate from the social networking system . In one embodiment objects in the content store represent single pieces of content or content items. Hence social networking system users are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media to the social networking system through various communication channels. This increases the amount of interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

The action logger receives communications about user actions internal to and or external to the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Examples of actions include adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user and attending an event posted by another user. In addition a number of actions may involve an object and one or more particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well and stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as actions on third party systems that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system and information describing these interactions is stored in the action log . Examples of interactions with objects include commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items and any other suitable interactions. Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system that are included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communicating with a user establishing a connection with an object joining an event to a calendar joining a group creating an event authorizing an application using an application expressing a preference for an object liking the object and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log may record a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as with other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of a user augmenting the interests included in the user s user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on a third party system such as an external website and communicated to the social networking system . For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through a social plug in enabling the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as in the preceding example may communicate information about a user s actions outside of the social networking system to the social networking system for association with the user. Hence the action log may record information about actions users perform on a third party system including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In one embodiment the edge store stores information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

In one embodiment an edge may include various features each representing characteristics of interactions between users interactions between users and objects or interactions between objects. For example features included in an edge describe rate of interaction between two users how recently two users have interacted with each other the rate or amount of information retrieved by one user about an object or the number and types of comments posted by a user about an object. The features may also represent information describing a particular object or user. For example a feature may represent the level of interest that a user has in a particular topic the rate at which the user logs into the social networking system or information describing demographic information about a user. Each feature may be associated with a source object or user a target object or user and a feature value. A feature may be specified as an expression based on values describing the source object or user the target object or user or interactions between the source object or user and target object or user hence an edge may be represented as one or more feature expressions.

The edge store also stores information about edges such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores or affinities may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest an object or in another user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. A user s affinity may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest for an object a topic or another user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 254 filed on Nov. 30 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 969 filed on Nov. 30 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 088 filed on Nov. 30 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored as a single edge in the edge store in one embodiment. Alternatively each interaction between a user and a specific object is stored as a separate edge. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

In one embodiment the social networking system identifies news feed stories and other content items such as advertisements likely to be of interest to a user through a news feed presented to the user. A news feed story presented to a user describes an action taken by an additional user connected to the user and identifies the additional user. Additionally a news feed story may describe objects represented in the social networking system such as an image a video a comment from a user a status message an external link content generated by the social networking system an application a game or other types of content items maintained by the content store . In some embodiments a news feed story describing an action performed by a user may be accessible to users who are not connected to the user that performed the action. The news feed manager may generate stories for presentation to a user based on information in the action log and in the edge store or may select candidate news feed stories from the content store . One or more of the candidate news feed stories are selected and presented to a user by the news feed manager .

The news feed manager generates the news feed stories for presentation in a news feed selects content items for presentation via the news feed and communicates the news feed to one or more client devices for presentation to users via the application for example. An example of generating a news feed is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 031 453 filed on Sep. 19 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In one embodiment the news feed manager receives a request to present one or more news feed stories to a social networking system user from the application executing on a client device and accesses one or more of the user profile store the content store the action log and the edge store to retrieve information associated with the user by the social networking system . For example content items such as news feed stories advertisements or other data associated with additional users connected to the user are retrieved. The retrieved content items are analyzed by the news feed manager to identify candidate content items which include content having at least a threshold likelihood of being relevant to the user. For example content items associated with additional users not connected to the user or content items associated with additional users for which the user has less than a threshold affinity are discarded as candidate content items. Based on various criteria the news feed manager selects one or more of the candidate content items for presentation to the identified user.

In various embodiments the news feed manager presents content items such as news feed stories to a user through a news feed including a plurality of content items e.g. news feed stories advertisements etc. selected for presentation to the user. In some embodiments the news feed includes a plurality of positions that are each configured to present a content item such as a news feed story or an advertisement. The news feed may include a limited number of news feed stories or may include a complete set of candidate news feed stories. For example the number of news feed stories included in a news feed may be determined in part by a user preference included in user profile store . The news feed manager may also determine an order in which selected news feed stories are presented via the news feed. For example the news feed manager determines that a user has a highest affinity for a specific user and increases the number of news feed stories in the news feed associated with the specific user or modifies positions in the news feed where news feed stories associated with the specific user are presented. In one embodiment content items presented via the news feed are presented in reverse chronological order based on timestamps associated with the content items.

The news feed manager may also account for actions by a user indicating a preference for types of content items and selects content items having the same or similar types for presentation to the user. Additionally the news feed manager may analyze news feed stories received by the social networking system from various users to obtain information about user preferences or actions. Similarly the news feed manager may analyze actions associated with a user or with additional users connected to the user to identify user preferences for content items. This may be used to refine subsequent selection of content items for presentation to the user via a news feed.

In addition to selecting news feed stories the news feed manager may select one or more advertisements for presentation to a user. For example a news feed presented to a user may include one or more advertisements as well as news feed stories. To select news feed stories or advertisements for presentation via a news feed the news feed manager determines scores for the advertisements and for the news feed stories. In one example a score for an advertisement is based at least in part on a bid amount associated with the advertisement a position in the news feed in which the advertisement is to be presented and an expected amount of interaction with the advertisement. Similarly a score for a news feed story is based at least in part on an expected amount of interaction with the news feed story and a position in the news feed in which the news feed story is to be presented. Based on the scores associated with news feed stories and advertisements the news feed manager selects one or more content items for presentation. For example the news feed manager ranks news feed stories and advertisements based on their scores and selects news feed stories or advertisements for presentation based on the ranking.

Additionally the news feed manager records for each user on the social networking system a view state of the content items that have been presented to each user and the order in which previously presented content items were presented to a user. In one example a view state associated with a user associates an identifier of a content item presented to the user with a position in a news feed in which the content item was presented. The view state at a particular time may be stored in a view state object associated with the user in the user profile store or in the content store . Based on a view state associated with a user the news feed manager may refine subsequent selection of content items for presentation to the user.

In one embodiment the news feed manager captures a view state of the news feed for a user viewing the news feed a viewing user based on actions associated with the viewing user. For example a view state is captured when the viewing user initiates viewing of a news feed by logging into a social networking system . Content items e.g. news feed stories or advertisements are provided to the user via the news feed and as content items are presented to the viewing user a view state associated with the user is modified. The news feed manager may update a view state associated with a viewing user after each content item is presented to the viewing user and store the updated view state in the content store or in the user profile store . In one embodiment the view state is updated when the viewing user s interaction with the social networking system expires such as when the user logs out of the social networking system . When the viewing user ceases interaction with content items presented by the social networking system the view state associated with the viewing user which includes an order in which content items were presented and indications of whether various content items were displayed to the viewing user is stored in the content store and is associated with the user s user profile stored in the user profile store .

Based on the view state describing content items presented to the user of the news feed presented to the user the news feed manager may determine that the user is not ready to be presented with additional content items. For example if a user starts a new session interacting with the social networking system but does not navigate through content items presented via a news feed the news feed manager infers that the user has not read or has not been displayed content items presented via the news feed. If the user later starts another session interacting with the social networking system the previously presented content items are again presented to the user based on a view state associated with the user.

The news feed manager may receive a request for an updated or refreshed news feed or for additional content to be included in the news feed from a user viewing the news feed a viewing user via an application executing on a client device . The application may include an indication of boredom in the request if the application determines the user has less than a threshold level of interest in content items presented via the newsfeed. If the request includes an indication of boredom the news feed manager modifies selection of content items for presentation via the news feed. For example the news feed manager determines content items e.g. news feed stories and advertisements previously selected for presentation to the viewing user but not displayed to the viewing user as further described below in conjunction with for presentation. Additional content items that have not previously been presented to the viewing user are also identified with content selected for presentation from the previously presented content items and from the additional content items as further described below in conjunction with . For example the news feed manager generates scores associated with additional content items and with previously presented content items and selects content for presentation to the viewing user based on the scores. The news feed manager may use information associated with the viewing user by the social networking system when selecting content from the previously presented content items and the additional content items. For example if an indication of boredom is received along with the request for additional content the news feed the news feed manager may alter selection of content from the additional content items and the previously presented content items as further described below in conjunction with .

The news feed manager may provide previously presented content items in positions below the additional news feed stories for presentation to the viewing user based on information received from the application executing on the client device associated with the viewing user indicating that the previously presented content items were displayed to the viewing user indicating that the viewing user has less than a threshold level of interest in the previously presented content items. Accordingly the viewing user is initially presented with the additional content items which may be ordered based at least in part on their scores and then presented with previously presented content items. Interactions between the viewing user and the application executing on the client device are used to determine if the viewing user has less than the threshold level of interest in the previously presented content items. Examples of user interactions for determining the viewing user s level of interest in previously presented content items include the viewing user accessing an interface element presented by the application to retrieve additional content items a gesture received by the application to retrieve additional content items e.g. a scroll action interactions with content items by the viewing user and a length of time the viewing user spends viewing content items presented via the client device . Determination of a level of interest in presented content items is further described below in conjunction with .

One or more advertisement requests ad requests are included in the ad request store . An advertisement request includes advertisement content also referred to as an advertisement and a bid amount. The advertisement content is text image audio video or any other suitable data presented to a user. In various embodiments the advertisement content also includes a landing page specifying a network address to which a user is directed when the advertisement is accessed. The bid amount is associated with an ad request by an advertiser and is used to determine an expected value such as monetary compensation provided by an advertiser to the social networking system if advertisement content in the ad request is presented to a user if the advertisement content in the ad request receives a user interaction when presented or based on any other suitable condition. For example the bid amount specifies a monetary amount that the social networking system receives from the advertiser if advertisement content included in an ad request is displayed and the expected value is determined by multiplying the bid amount by a probability of the advertisement content being accessed by a user.

Additionally an advertisement request may include one or more targeting criteria specified by the advertiser. Targeting criteria included in an advertisement request specify one or more characteristics of users eligible to be presented with advertisement content in the advertisement request. For example targeting criteria are used to identify users having user profile information edges or actions satisfying at least one of the targeting criteria. Hence targeting criteria allow an advertiser to identify users having specific characteristics simplifying subsequent distribution of content to different users.

In one embodiment targeting criteria may specify actions or types of connections between a user and another user or object of the social networking system . Targeting criteria may also specify interactions between a user and objects performed external to the social networking system such as on a third party system . For example targeting criteria identifies users that have taken a particular action such as sending a message to another user using an application joining a group leaving a group joining an event generating an event description purchasing or reviewing a product or service using an online marketplace requesting information from a third party system or any other suitable action. Including actions in targeting criteria allows advertisers to further refine users eligible to be presented with content from an advertisement request. As another example targeting criteria identifies users having a connection to another user or object or having a particular type of connection to another user or object.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party systems . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may receive and route messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text messages short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server via the application for additional content items to be presented to the user via the application . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or BlackberryOS.

In various embodiments the social networking system presents content items including news feed stories and advertisements to a user via a news feed. As the user navigates through a news feed the user may finish viewing content items of interest to the user presented via the news feed and request additional content items for presentation. Alternatively the user may have less than a threshold level of interest in content items presented by the news feed and may request presentation of additional content items via the news feed. To increase user interest with presented news feed stories or advertisements the social networking system may present content items previously selected for presentation to the user such as content items not displayed to the user or additional content items that have not been presented to the user via the newsfeed if the social networking system receives an indication the user has less than a threshold level of interest in content items presented by the news feed.

In the social networking system or the application executing on the client device determines if the user has less than a threshold level of interest in the content items presented via the news feed . The application may receive a variety of user interactions associated with the news feed or content items presented to the user via the news feed and determines the user s level of interest in the content items based on the received interactions. For example the application determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the content items in the news feed if the application receives greater than a threshold number of interactions to refresh the news feed from the user within a threshold period of time or if the application receives at least a threshold number of interactions requesting additional content items to include in the news feed within a threshold period of time. For example the application determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the content items included in the news feed if the user holds and drags down the news feed greater than a threshold number of times to refresh the news feed or to request additional content items to be presented in the news feed within a threshold time interval while viewing the news feed via the application . In another example the application determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the content items presented by the news feed if the user accesses an interface element of the application that communicates a request for additional content to the social networking system greater than a threshold number of times within a time interval. If the application determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the content items the application includes an indication of boredom in a request for content communicated to the social networking system. Alternatively the social networking system determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in content items in the news feed based on information received by the social networking system . For example the social networking system determines the user has less than a threshold level of interest in the content items in the news feed if more than a threshold number of requests for additional content are received form the application presenting the news feed within a threshold period of time.

If the social networking system determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the content items presented by the news feed the social networking system includes additional content items in the news feed in positions higher than positions of the content items previously presented to the user in the news feed . In the example of the social networking system includes additional content items H I and J in positions and of the news feed which were not previously presented to the user which mores presentation of previously presented content items A B C and D to positions and respectively in the news feed . Content items H I J may be content items previously presented to the user that the user did not view or may be content items that have not been presented to the user. Selection of content items based on a determination the user has less than a threshold level of interest in the content items is further described below in conjunction with . Content items E F and G are not shown in news feed as they have been moved to positions below that of position . Thus the social networking system provides the user with additional content items to interact with if the user has less than a threshold level of interest in content items presented via the news feed .

In one embodiment the application monitors user actions and gestures received via one or more input devices or other sensors of the client device on which the application is executed. For example the application may receive information describing the user s eye position based on images captured by an image capture device of the client device . The application may process the images to determine if a user s eyes are focused on a display device of the client device . If the user s eyes are not focused on the display device when the news feed is presented by the application for at least a threshold period of time the application determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items. In another example the application identifies gestures performed by the user and captured by an input device e.g. a touchscreen of the client device and determine whether the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items based on the gestures. For example if the user performs a downward swiping gesture via an input device more than a threshold number of times within a given time period the application determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items.

Alternatively the social networking system may independently determine whether the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items based on data received by the social networking system . For example the social networking system determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in presented content items based on a number of requests for additional content received from the application within a specified time interval. If the number of requests for additional content received from the user within the specified time interval equals or exceeds a threshold number the social networking system determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items.

The application sends a request to the social networking system for additional content to include in the news feed. If the application determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items the request includes an indication of boredom associated with the user. When the social networking system receives the request the social networking system identifies additional content items as well as content items previously presented to the user as further described below in conjunction with . The additional content items may include content items that have not been presented to the user e.g. newly generated content items newly received content items as well as previously generated content items that were not previously selected for presentation to the user. The social networking system selects content from the additional content items and the previously presented content items while accounting for the indication of boredom included in the request as further described below in conjunction with .

The social networking system transmits the selected content to the application which presents the selected content. For example the social networking system returns a web page including the selected content in a news feed and the application presents the web page to the user. Alternatively the social networking system transmits content for presentation by the application in a news feed generated by the application . The application may present the selected content items in positions above the content items that were previously displayed to the user via the news feed to encourage the user to interact with new content.

The social networking system maintains a view state for a social networking system user. The view state identifies content items presented to the user and an order in which the content items were presented to the user. For example the view state associates content item identifiers with positions in a news feed in which the content items were presented. As described above content items include news feed stories and advertisements as well as any other suitable type of content. For purposes of illustration describes presentation of content items via a news feed but in other embodiments the content items may be presented using any suitable format. In one embodiment the view state for a user is stored in the content store and is associated with the user s user profile stored in the user profile store . The view state associated with the user may be modified each time content items are presented to the user by the social networking system . In some embodiments the view state is maintained over time to store the order in which content items have been presented to the user via a news feed or other format. Associating a view state with a user profile maintained by the social networking system allows the view state to account for presentation of content items to the user via multiple client devices allowing the user to view a consistent ordering of content items when accessing content from the social networking system via different client devices .

In one embodiment the social networking system determines whether the user has less than a threshold level of interest in content presented by the social networking system . For example the social networking system receives a request for content from a client device associated with the user that includes an indication of boredom associated with the user. An application associated with the social networking system and executing on a client device may monitor interactions of the user with the application to determine whether the user has less than a threshold level of interest in the content presented by the social networking system as described above in conjunction with and . In some embodiments the application includes an indication of boredom in a request for content sent to the social networking system if the application determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in presented content. The social networking system determines the user identified by the request has less than the threshold level of interest in the content if the indication of boredom is identified from the request.

Alternatively the social networking system determines whether the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items independent from the application based on information received from the application and associated with the user. For example the social networking system determines whether the user has at least the threshold level of interest in the content based on a number of requests for additional content associated with the user received from the application or based on a frequency with which requests for content associated with the user are received from the application . If the social networking system receives at least a threshold number of requests for additional content or receives requests for additional content at greater than a threshold frequency the social networking system determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content.

If the social networking system determines the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content the social networking system identifies one or more additional content items that were not previously presented to the user. For example new news feed stories or other content items are generated by the news feed manager and maintained in a queue for presentation to the user. One or more news feed stories or other content items may be identified from this queue as additional content items to include in the updated news feed. Identification of news feed stories is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 031 453 filed on Sep. 19 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments one or more of the additional content items are identified based on changes in content items received or modified by the social networking system after a time associated with a view state associated with the user that identifies content items displayed to the user. A change in content items from a view state associated with the user may indicate for example a new content item or a previously presented content item associated with a recent interaction by an additional user of the social networking system connected to the user e.g. an indication of preference for the previously presented content item a comment associated with the previously presented content item sharing the previously presented content item with a user . In one example content items that were previously received but not selected to be presented to the user are identified . Additionally one or more advertisements included in the ad request store and not previously presented to the user may be identified as additional content items. For example advertisements associated with one or more targeting criteria satisfied by the user and not previously presented to the user are identified from the ad request store as additional content items.

In addition to identifying additional content items not previously presented to the user the social networking system also identifies one or more content items previously presented to the user. For example news feed stories or other content items previously identified for presentation to the user but not displayed to the user by a client device are identified . As another example the social networking system identifies an advertisement previously selected for presentation to the user specified by the received request such as an advertisement previously presented to the user but with which the user did not interact or that was not displayed to the user. To identify one or more content items previously presented to the user the social networking system determines if content items have been displayed to the user identified as presented to the user by the view state associated with the user. Content items identified as presented e.g. displayed to the user by the view state are identified along with positions in the news feed in which the content items were presented from the view state.

The social networking system scores the additional content items and the identified one or more previously presented content items. The social networking system may differently score the additional news feed stories the previously presented news feed stories the additional advertisements and the previously presented advertisements. In one embodiment the social networking system scores the additional news feed stories and the previously presented news feed stories based on an expected amount of user interaction with a news feed story. The expected amount of interaction may be based on an organic value associated with a news feed story determining an organic value associated with a news feed story is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 545 266 filed on Jul. 10 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Additionally the social networking system scores the additional advertisements and the previously presented advertisements based at least in part on a bid amount associated with the advertisements and an expected amount of user interaction with the advertisement. For example an expected value is determined for an advertisement based on a bid amount associated with the advertisement and a likelihood of the user interacting with the advertisement. The score for the advertisement is determined based at least in part on the expected value. In some embodiments the additional content items and the previously presented content items are differently scored . For example an additional cost is associated with scoring previously selected but not displayed content items based on again presenting the previously selected but not displayed content items in a different position in the news feed determining a score associated with again presenting previously selected for presentation but not displayed content items based on the position of the content items in the news feed is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 341 680 filed on Jul. 25 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The social networking system may modify or alter the scoring of the additional content items and previously presented content items based on determining the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items. In one embodiment the social networking system scores certain types of content items higher if the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items. For example the social networking system increases scores of news feed stories relative to advertisements if the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items. As another example the social networking system increases scores of additional content items relative to scores of previously presented content items if the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items. Alternatively if the user has less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items the social networking system modifies thresholds used to identify content items to score . In some embodiments affinity between the user and news feed stories previously provided to a client device but not presented to the user or between additional users associated with news feed stories previously provided to a client device for presentation to the user but not displayed to the user are compared to a threshold score with previously presented content items for which the user has at least a threshold affinity scored . The social networking system may modify the threshold score on determining the user has less than the threshold level of affinity for the content items. For example the social networking system reduces a threshold affinity between the user and a previously presented news feed story used to identify the previously presented news feed story for scoring or reduces a threshold affinity between the user and an additional content item to identify the additional content item for scoring .

Based at least in part on the scores the social networking system selects content from the additional content items or from the previously presented content items for presentation to the user. In one embodiment the additional content items and the previously presented content items are ranked based on their associated scores. In one embodiment scores associated with additional news feed stories scores associated with previously presented news feed stories scores associated with additional advertisements and scores associated with previously presented advertisements are converted into a common unit of measurement so advertisements and news feed stories are ranked together in a single ranking Ranking both news feed stories and advertisements is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 545 266 filed on Jul. 10 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Alternatively news feed stories are ranked based on their associated scores and advertisements are separately ranked based on their associated scores.

Based on the ranking one or more content items are selected and provided to an application executing on a client device for presentation to the user. For example content items having at least a threshold position in the ranking or having at least a threshold score are selected and provided to the application executing on the client device for presentation to the user. In some embodiments the social networking system modifies the threshold position or threshold ranking for selecting content items if the user is determined to have less than the threshold level of interest in the presented content items e.g. the social networking system lowers a threshold score or a threshold position in the ranking to increase the number of content items selected . If a content item previously presented to the user is selected for subsequent presentation the content item is removed from its original position in the news feed and provided for presentation in an alternative position in the news feed. In one embodiment content items having at least a threshold position in the ranking are provided in the order determined by the ranking while remaining content items are presented in a chronological order such as reverse chronological order. After the new content items are provided to the application executing on the client device the view state for the user is updated to include the modified ordering of the content items provided to the user in the news feed to indicate the positions in the news feed in which the content items are presented. The updated view state is stored in the content store and associated with a user profile of the user.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the patent rights to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the patent rights. It is therefore intended that the scope of the patent rights be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the patent rights which is set forth in the following claims.

