---

title: Secured media distribution system and method
abstract: A media distribution system provides controlled distribution of media owned by various parties hosted on a local media access device. The media access device may store temporary media, such as rented or leased media, on a separate provider controlled storage partition. This gives the media provider control over rented or leased media even though it is locally hosted. The media access device can download media from providers at various predefined times so as to limit its use of bandwidth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363563&OS=09363563&RS=09363563
owner: Duvon Corporation
number: 09363563
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150422
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 865 908 filed Apr. 18 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 749 305 filed Jan. 5 2013.

The invention relates to distribution and storage of digital media and in particular to a secured media distribution system and method therefor.

The devices features and functions described herein are intended to address the movie and media delivery marketplace. There are currently a number of movie and media delivery systems available that provide users the capability to stream movies online to their TVs PCs and portable smart devices.

From the discussion that follows it will become apparent that the present invention addresses the deficiencies associated with the prior art while providing numerous additional advantages and benefits not contemplated or possible with prior art constructions.

A media distribution system comprising a media access device is disclosed herein. The media distribution system herein provides an alternative to traditional media delivery methodologies while enhancing access and use controls for media providers and users.

Various systems and methods for media distribution are disclosed herein. For example in one embodiment a media access device is disclosed with such media access device comprising one or more storage devices having at least one provider managed partition and at least one user managed partition one or more communication devices that receive media and one or more processors that determine if the media is provider media or if the media is user media based on ownership of the media. The media is stored in the provider managed partition if the media is determined to be provider media and the media is stored in the user managed partition if the media is determined to be user media.

The processors may move the provider media from the provider managed partition to the user managed partition when ownership of the provider media changes. Alternatively or in addition the processors may move the provider media from the provider managed partition to the user managed partition when a user purchases the provider media. One or more output terminals that output the user media or the provider media for presentation to a user may be included in the media access device.

The communication devices may receive one or more instructions from a media provider defining use and access restrictions for the provider media. A media provider may control addition and removal of the provider media via the communication devices. A user may control addition and removal of user media in the user managed partition.

In another exemplary embodiment a non transitory storage medium is disclosed. In this embodiment the non transitory storage medium stores instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to receive media via one or more communication devices determine if the media is provider media or if the media is user media based on ownership of the media store the media in a provider managed partition of one or more storage devices if the media is determined to be provider media and store the media in a user managed partition of the storage devices if the media is determined to be user media. The provider media or the user media is transmitted via one or more output terminals for presentation to a user.

The instructions may also cause the processors to move the provider media from the provider managed partition to the user managed partition when ownership of the provider media changes. In addition or alternatively the instructions may cause the processors to move the provider media from the provider managed partition to the user managed partition when a user purchases the provider media.

The instructions may cause the processors to add or remove the provider media based on instructions received from a media provider. Also the instructions may cause the processors to add or remove the user media based on instructions received from a user. In addition the instructions may cause the processors to change access and use restrictions for the provider media based on instructions received from a media provider. It is noted that the provider media or the user media may be transmitted via the output terminals is selected by a user.

In another exemplary embodiment a media access device implemented method for providing media is disclosed with such method comprising receiving media via one or more communication devices of the media access device determining if the media is provider media or user media based on ownership of the media and storing provider media in a provider media partition and storing user media in a user media partition based on the determination. The provider media partition and the user media partition are partitions of one or more storage devices of the media access device. The provider media or the user media is presented to a user via one or more output terminals of the media access device.

The provider media may be moved to the user media partition when ownership of the provider media changes. In addition or alternatively the provider media may be moved to the user media partition when the provider media is purchased by a user. It is noted that the provider media may be added or removed based on one or more instructions from a media provider. Similarly the user media may be added or removed based on one or more instructions from a user. Access to the provider media may be provided based on use and access restrictions defined by a media provider.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the invention will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough description of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the invention.

The media distribution system herein is generally configured to allow consumer access to digital media in a secure and or controlled fashion via a local media access device. The media distribution system provides a digital media rental system which allows a digital media provider to remotely connect to an end user media access device to load the digital media content for a user. As used herein media includes but is not limited to movies music videos eBooks digital news concerts sporting media special event media etc.

Media can be directly downloaded to the media access device at a predetermined time chosen by the user subscription model . This allows users with lower bandwidth to take advantage of digital media services. Media can be chosen from an app that is loaded on any PC laptop portable smart device tablet smart phone or other digital device that accesses the internet. The media distribution system may provide an application programming interface API to allow the user to access the content to be leased rented and or purchased.

In addition the media distribution system includes systems and methods for allowing media that is owned by the user of a media access device to be co located on the same device as media that is owned by third parties. Security features of the media distribution system protect the interests of each party prohibiting the other from accessing copying downloading viewing or otherwise connecting to the media without permissions being granted by the media s owner.

The digital media rental system allows a user to interact with one or more media providers to receive digital media movies music eBooks and other digital content . While other known devices provide a conduit to receive media in a similar fashion the media access device herein differs significantly as will now be described.

In a typical movie or video rental scenario a user will access a media provider from their internet ready TV or other portable internet device and browse the content offered by the provider. Once the content is chosen and purchased or rented the content is made accessible for viewing and is streamed from the provider through the internet to the user s device. Streaming commonly seen in the forms of audio and video streaming online as used herein refers to playing a media file without completely downloading the file first. The media may be buffered on a playback device while it is playing and downloading.

Once the media session is complete the transaction ends. The media access device herein provides the capability of downloading multiple digital media files simultaneously storing them for access at the user s convenience. In a similar manner to a movie rental model the user can go to the online video store choose multiple titles for viewing and have these titles delivered to the media access device. The rented or other purchased content is stored locally on the media access device for later use.

Traditionally leased or rented media is typically stored in cloud based or other online storage but the media access device eliminates the need to store media remotely. A secondary function of the media access device is to allow temporary storage and management of media that is being leased or rented from a media provider like Netflix or Blockbuster . As will be described further below the media access device provides separate and secure storage for rental media to ensure media security.

The media loaded to the media access device will typically be chosen from a media provider and be managed by a corresponding service agreement. A typical media provider service agreement allows users to pay a flat rate for a specific number of digital media rentals within a given period. As an example we will assume 10 media rentals in a 30 day period. The user entering into the agreement will access the provider website and create a media list from which the provider will begin providing media directly to the user via the media access device as defined by this list. The user can manage their content list remotely from any of their internet ready devices. In this manner media can be managed locally as well as remotely.

A key feature of the media access device lies in allowing the user to determine a time for the media to be delivered from the media provider to the media access device. This feature significantly improves user bandwidth optimization and is particularly well suited for users with lower speed connections which make streaming difficult if not impossible. The user of the device can choose any time during the day or night for the delivery of the media to the device allowing them to obtain it immediately or schedule the delivery of the media during non peak usage hours negating the need for higher bandwidth to enjoy the digital content.

Media rental or lease will now be described. It is noted that the user would create an account and or login to a media provider website. Once at the media site they create a list of media the user wishes to view for the given period in this case 30 days . Once the user has executed and completed the media agreements called for by the provider they would choose a time of day in which the media would be delivered to their media access device.

At the predetermined time the media provider would automatically access the media access device and begin downloading the media selections from the list created by the user. For this example we will assume that the provider has agreed to allow the user to host or store three rental titles locally on their media access device at any given time.

The media would be loaded into the device in the sequestered and encrypted storage area of the media access device limiting the user s options to those granted by the provider. These options would typically include but are not limited to play rewind pause start stop fast forward purchase and delete. It is noted that the media access device may utilize various storage technologies now known or later developed including magnetic optical or flash based storage.

The media would remain on the media access device for the time allotted such as defined by the agreement entered into by the user and the media owner. Once the user has accessed and viewed the media and indicated it should be deleted it will be subsequently removed from the device and be replaced by the next media selection from the user s list created and hosted on the provider site. The media access device will always host the minimum number of media titles in this case three giving the user a variety of choices as opposed to the typical single movie streaming model. It will be understood that minimum numbers of media titles may be hosted on the media access device.

At any time within the media hosting arrangement the user can choose to purchase a title from the media owner. Once the purchase has been completed the media will be immediately removed from the sequestered storage portion of the device and relocated to a personal cloud portion of the device. This personal cloud portion is a media repository where the user keeps their personal digital content i.e. the media the user owns which may be managed through a media distribution system. Exemplary media distribution systems include StoAmigo a cloud based file management and storage system from Duvon Corporation Dropbox Box SugarSync Google Drive and iCloud 

Though described herein with regard to movies or television shows it is noted that the media access device may handle music eBooks and other digital media that can be rented or purchased from digital media providers in the same fashion.

Another advantage of the media distribution system is that it provides security for the rented or leased media. As described briefly above in operation the security feature may store digital content delivered to the device from a provider in a sequestered storage area on a media access device that is controlled and managed at least partially by the provider. This allows the provider to execute permissions or conditions for use or access that may be associated with the media. In this manner the provider has complete control and ownership of the media even while the media is being hosted on the user s media access device.

The media will typically be encrypted to ensure that the user cannot accidentally or otherwise access the media without express permission. A media owner can therefore choose at any time to remotely delete and or otherwise block usage of the media as well. This is because the permission setting on the media being shared is based on the recipient of the share as opposed to the media itself. With this permission based sharing media can be managed without the need for passwords and other antiquated protection methods. Permissions are always controlled by the owner of the media and can be changed and or revoked at any time. This gives the media owner ultimate control over their media. Media can be taken back at any time regardless of the content of the share the user the share is tied to or the media being shared.

In addition to the encryption methodology for protection of the media the media access device also incorporates a multiple partition approach on its storage device designed to prevent access to the media that is owned managed and controlled by the media provider. Having rented media stored on a separate partition within the storage device of the media access device adds a second layer of security ensuring the media remains the sole property of the media owner.

A typical scenario for media storage and access within the device will now be described with reference to the flow diagram of . At a step rental media is sent from a media provider to the media access device. At a step the media access device recognizes the content as leased or rented material such as via an API code identification or other identification scheme provided by the media provider. If the media has been leased or rented the identification process notifies the media access device that the material is not the property of the media access device s user at a step .

At a step the media access device then routes the media to a secure partition or portion of the media access device s storage device for storage and access by the user. The media owner in this case the media provider maintains full rights of access including removal and deletion of the media from the device and may control or change usage access or other rights capabilities at a step . It is noted that while the media access device is storing the media for the user to access it may also be encrypted to ensure that there is no way for the user to accidentally or otherwise gain access to the media without the express consent of the media owner.

As stated above once the user is done with the media it can either be purchased or removed from the media access device thereby allowing the media provider to download another media selection from the user s list to the media access device at the predetermined time defined by the user.

Referring to step if the media is confirmed as user owned content the media may be stored in a user partition on the media access device s storage device at a step . The user may then control or change usage access or other rights capabilities to this user owned media at a step . It is understood that the storage can be but is not limited to a physical drive with dual dedicated partitions one for the user and one for the provider or completely separate physical drives.

As can also be seen the media access device will typically be located at a user s premises such as the user s home. The media provider which may be a server or the like may be remote from the media access device and be in communication with the media access device via the Internet or other network.

The user may access e.g. play media hosted stored on the media access device from various client devices. As shown in for example the user may view or be presented media on the media access device from a television smartphone laptop or other computer or tablet . Typically these devices will be on the same local network as the media access device . It is also noted that users incorporating devices like smartphone laptop or other computers and tablets can access their media distribution system remotely outside of their local area network LAN through a cloud service like StoAmigo. The user can access their cloud service from any available internet connection.

As described above the user may host or store various media on the media access device . For security purposes this media may be stored in various portions or partitions on a storage device of the media access device . As shown in for example a provider managed partition and a user managed partition are provided. The media provider controls the provider managed partition to retain control and ownership of its media even though the media access device is in the user s possession. Typically rented or leased media will be stored in the provider managed partition as described above. Similarly the user controls the user managed partition thereby allowing the user to control use or access of his or her media.

In general a processor may be a microprocessor controller circuit or the like. In one or more embodiments a process will be configured to control components of the media access device to provide the functionality described herein. To illustrate the instructions may be configured to segregate provider media and user media when stored and control access to the same as described herein. A processor may execute one or more instructions such as machine readable code to provide such functionality. It is contemplated that these instructions may be stored on a memory or storage device or may be hardwired into a processor. In some embodiments the instructions may be stored on and retrieved from a non transitory storage medium for execution by a processor.

A storage device may utilize various data storage technologies for reliably storing data thereon. For example a storage device may be a magnetic hard drive flash drive or optical drive in one or more embodiments. Typically the provider managed storage and user managed storage will be separate storage areas. It is contemplated that the provider managed storage and user managed storage may be separate storage areas or partitions on a single physical storage device or multiple storage devices.

Various communications devices may be provided as well. For instance in the embodiment of the media access device has a first communication device for communicating with a media provider via a wide area network namely the internet . The media access device may also comprise one or more second communication devices for communicating via a local area network. In for instance the media access device comprises a wireless LAN communication device as well as a wired LAN communication device. It is noted that one or the other or both may be provided in some embodiments.

In general the second communications devices transmit media to one or more client devices on a local area network where the media may be presented viewed by a user. To illustrate it is contemplated that the local area network may be a local subnet at the user s location such as the user s residence office or the like. The first communication device may be used to receive media such as rented or purchased media from a media provider from a remote location via the internet or other wide area network.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible that are within the scope of this invention. In addition the various features elements and embodiments described herein may be claimed or combined in any combination or arrangement.

