---

title: Method and apparatus for aggregating with information generalization
abstract: Methods, apparatuses, and computer program products are described herein that are configured to perform aggregation of phrase specifications. In some example embodiments, a method is provided that comprises identifying two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments, the two or more generalized phrase specifications contain at least one aggregatable constituent. The method of this embodiment may also include generating an aggregated phrase specification from the two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments, the aggregated phrase specification comprises a combined noun phrase generated from the aggregatable constituents and one or more additional constituents based on a determined level of generalization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600471&OS=09600471&RS=09600471
owner: Arria Data2Text Limited
number: 09600471
owner_city: Aberdeen
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20150501
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2012 063343 filed Nov. 2 2012 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to natural language generation technologies and more particularly relate to a method apparatus and computer program product for aggregating phrase specifications.

In some examples a natural language generation NLG system is configured to transform raw input data that is expressed in a non linguistic format into a format that can be expressed linguistically such as through the use of natural language. For example raw input data may take the form of a value of a stock market index over time and as such the raw input data may include data that is suggestive of a time a duration a value and or the like. Therefore an NLG system may be configured to input the raw input data and output text that linguistically describes the value of the stock market index for example Securities markets rose steadily through most of the morning before sliding downhill late in the day. 

Data that is input into a NLG system may be provided in for example a recurrent formal structure. The recurrent formal structure may comprise a plurality of individual fields and defined relationships between the plurality of individual fields. For example the input data may be contained in a spreadsheet or database presented in a tabulated log message or other defined structure encoded in a knowledge representation such as the resource description framework RDF triples that make up the Semantic Web and or the like. In some examples the data may include numerical content symbolic content or the like. Symbolic content may include but is not limited to alphanumeric and other non numeric character sequences in any character encoding used to represent arbitrary elements of information. In some examples the output of the NLG system is text in a natural language e.g. English Japanese or Swahili but may also be in the form of synthesized speech.

Methods apparatuses and computer program products are described herein that are configured to perform aggregation of phrase specifications. In some example embodiments a method is provided that comprises identifying two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments the two or more generalized phrase specifications contain at least one aggregatable constituent. The method of this embodiment may also include generating an aggregated phrase specification from the two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments the aggregated phrase specification comprises a specification for a combined noun phrase generated from the aggregatable constituents and one or more additional constituents based on a determined level of generalization.

In further example embodiments an apparatus is provided that includes at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code with the at least one memory and the computer program code being configured with the at least one processor to cause the apparatus to at least identify two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments the two or more generalized phrase specifications contain at least one aggregatable constituent. The at least one memory and computer program code may also be configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to generate an aggregated phrase specification from the two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments the aggregated phrase specification comprises at least one of a combined noun phrase generated from the at least one aggregatable constituents and one or more additional constituents based on a determined level of generalization.

In yet further example embodiments a computer program product may be provided that includes at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable program instructions stored therein with the computer readable program instructions including program instructions configured to identify two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments the two or more generalized phrase specifications contain at least one aggregatable constituent. The computer readable program instructions may also include program instructions configured to generate an aggregated phrase specification from the two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments the aggregated phrase specification comprises at least one of a combined noun phrase generated from the at least one aggregatable constituents and one or more additional constituents based on a determined level of generalization.

In yet further example embodiments an apparatus is provided that includes means for identifying two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments the two or more generalized phrase specifications contain at least one aggregatable constituent.

The apparatus of this embodiment may also include means for generating an aggregated phrase specification from the two or more generalized phrase specifications. In some example embodiments the aggregated phrase specification comprises at least one of a combined noun phrase generated from the at least one aggregatable constituents and one or more additional constituents based on a determined level of generalization.

Example embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments are shown. Indeed the embodiments may take many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. The terms data content information and similar terms may be used interchangeably according to some example embodiments to refer to data capable of being transmitted received operated on and or stored. Moreover the term exemplary as may be used herein is not provided to convey any qualitative assessment but instead merely to convey an illustration of an example. Thus use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.

In language words phrases sentences or the like may be aggregated to enhance readability for example instead of Stocks retreated from a broad advance yesterday. Stocks closed mixed an aggregated sentence may recite Stocks retreated from a broad advance yesterday and closed mixed. As can be seen from this example the latter sentence is more readable and flows much more naturally. By way of further example Pressure is stable and Temperature is stable can be aggregated into a more readable sentence Pressure and temperature are stable . However in some examples the complexity of the words phrases sentences or the like may hinder the ability for a natural language generation system to aggregate words phrases sentences or the like for example aggregating sentences with detailed numeric values like Pressure is stable at 20 psi and Temperature is stable at 30 C .

As such some example embodiments that are described herein are configured to aggregate phrase specifications by generalizing their respective properties or constituents such as the detailed numeric values in the example above e.g. 20 psi and 30 C . For example in an instance in which 20 psi and 30 C are both within normal operating ranges a vague descriptor that generalizes the value of 20 psi and 30 C such as within their normal range or within a standard operating range would enable aggregation of sentences that would otherwise not be aggregatable. Thus by generalizing the numeric values a resultant aggregated sentence may be Pressure and temperature are within their normal range .

The methods apparatus and computer program products as described herein are configured to aggregate one or more phrase specifications. A phrase specification is a specification of the content of a linguistic constituent such as a sentence. Such representations of content include but are not limited to meaning text theory e.g. SemR DSyntR and or SSyntR lambda calculus representations of semantics case frames messages pre constructed surface form fragments and or like. As such in some example embodiments one or more phrase specifications and a domain specific function which specifies allowable generalizations e.g. generalizations of constituents within the phrase specification that do not significantly reduce utility of an output text from an end user s perspective of those one or more phrase specifications may be identified. In some example embodiments the one or more phrase specifications may be aggregated based on the generalization and or removal of one or more constituents e.g. a coherent subpart of a phrase specification such as but not limited to a property within a message an argument to a predicate a syntactic subconstituent within a larger syntactic element a role within a case frame and or like within the phrase specification. After generalization the one or more generalized phrase specifications may be compared and those generalized phrase specifications of the one or more generalized phrase specifications that can be aggregated e.g. are identical but for an aggregatable constituent are placed into groups. For each group of phrase specifications a level of generalization may then be determined that still enables the group of phrase specifications to be aggregated. In some example embodiments the aggregatable constituents may be combined or otherwise merged to create an aggregated phrase specification. In some example embodiments the aggregated phrase specification may contain one or more additional constituents based on the determined level of generalization.

A message store or knowledge pool is configured to store one or more messages that are accessible by the natural language generation system . Messages are one example of a phrase specification described herein and are language independent data structures that correspond to informational elements in a text and or collect together underlying data referred to as properties arguments or slots which can be presented within a fragment of natural language such as a phrase or sentence. Messages may be represented in various ways for example each property may consist of a named attribute and its corresponding value these values may recursively consist of sets of named attributes and their values and each message may belong to one of a set of predefined types. The concepts and relationships that make up messages may be drawn from an ontology e.g. a domain model that formally represents knowledge about the application scenario. In some examples the domain model is a representation of information about a particular domain and specifies how information about a domain is communicated in language. For example a domain model may contain an ontology that specifies the kinds of objects instances concepts and or the like that may exist in the domain in concrete or abstract form properties that may be predicated of the objects concepts and the like relationships that may hold between the objects concepts and the like and representations of any specific knowledge that is required to function in the particular domain. The domain model may also contain a set of rules for generalization removal and or aggregation of phrase specifications that are generated based on a corpus analysis domain analysis or the like.

In some example embodiments a natural language generation system such as natural language generation system is configured to generate words phrases sentences text or the like which may take the form of a natural language text. The natural language generation system comprises a document planner a microplanner and or a realizer . The natural language generation system may also be in data communication with the message store the domain model and or the linguistic resources . In some examples the linguistic resources include but are not limited to text schemas aggregation rules reference rules lexicalization rules and or grammar rules that may be used by one or more of the document planner the microplanner and or the realizer . Other natural language generation systems may be used in some example embodiments such as a natural language generation system as described in Building Natural Language Generation Systems by Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale Cambridge University Press 2000 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

The document planner is configured to input one or more messages from the message store . The document planner may comprise a content determination process that is configured to select the messages such as the messages that contain a representation of the data that is to be output via a natural language text. The document planner may also comprise a structuring process that determines the order of messages to be included in a text. In some example embodiments the document planner may access one or more text schemas for the purposes of content determination and document structuring. The output of the document planner may be a tree structured object or other data structure that is referred to as a document plan. In an instance in which a tree structured object is chosen for the document plan the leaf nodes of the tree may contain the messages and the intermediate nodes of the tree structure object may be configured to indicate how the subordinate nodes are related e.g. elaboration consequence contrast sequence and or the like to each other.

The microplanner is configured to construct a realization specification based on the document plan output from the document planner such that the document plan may be expressed in natural language. In some example embodiments the microplanner may convert one or more messages into a text specification by performing aggregation lexicalization and referring expression generation. A text specification is a specification of the content of a linguistic constituent such as a sentence and contains a set of instructions for a realizer such as realizer to produce a grammatically well formed text. The output of the microplanner in some example embodiments is a tree structured realization specification whose leaf nodes are text specifications and whose internal nodes express rhetorical relations between the leaf nodes. The microplanner and the aggregator are further described with reference to .

A realizer is configured to traverse a text specification output by the microplanner to express the text specification in natural language. The realization process that is applied to each text specification makes use of a grammar e.g. the grammar of the linguistic resources which specifies the valid syntactic structures in the language and further provides a way of mapping from phrase specifications into the corresponding natural language sentences. The output of the process is in some example embodiments a natural language text.

A phrase specification may also have one or more constituents that are generalizable or removable. Constituents that are generalizable or removable may be defined by the domain model for a particular domain and or may be identified based on a corpus analysis business rules user settings and or the like. For example a particular value such as a temperature may be generalized by a range such as below the normal range in the normal range or above the normal range in some domains but in other domains such a generalization may be improper. In further example embodiments the domain model may contain a generalized constituent list which provides a list of alternative generalized constituents for a given generalizable constituent. The domain model may also define the various levels of generalization for each generalizable constituent. For example the domain model may identify within a normal range as the most generalized constituent whereas other more specific generalizations may be available such as between 25 C and 35 C . Alternatively or additionally the microplanner the aggregator or the like may receive or otherwise determine via a reordering flag whether the one or more phrase specifications can be reordered for the purposes of aggregation.

As such and as shown in block the one or more phrase specifications may be generalized. Such a generalization may include but is not limited to generalizing all of the constituents that are marked as generalizable by the aggregator and or removing all of the constituents that are marked as removable by the aggregator . In some example embodiments the constituents may be generalized using a generalized constituent marked as most generalized in the generalized constituent list or predefined constituent list. The generalized constituent list may contain one or more constituents that may be selected by the aggregator to replace a generalizable constituent in a phrase specification. For example the constituent last Sunday may be generalized by from least generalized or lowest level of generalization to most generalized or highest level of generalization earlier this week earlier this month or in the past . Alternatively or additionally a portion of the constituents marked as generalizable may be generalized and or a portion of the constituents marked as removable may be removed.

As is shown in block a group of generalized phrase specifications that can be aggregated together are identified by the aggregator . For example sequences of phrase specifications if reordering is not permitted based on the reordering flag or subsets of the generalized phrase specifications if reordering is permitted based on the reordering flag may be identified as being aggregatable in an instance in which the sequences or subsets of phrase specifications are identical except for their identified aggregatable constituent. For example if the aggregatable constituent of pressure is stable within normal range is pressure and the aggregatable constituent of temperature is stable within normal range is temperature then the aggregator may determine that the remaining constituents namely is stable within normal range and is stable within normal range are identical and thus may determine the phrase specifications are aggregatable. Alternatively or additionally phrase specifications may also be aggregated based on an indication in the domain model business rules a user setting and or the like.

In some example embodiments the one or more phrase specifications are generalized to a highest level of generalization at block to identify groups of phrase specifications that can be aggregated. Once those groups of phrase specifications are identified then at block the level of generalization may be reduced or otherwise lowered so long as the group of phrase specifications can still be aggregated. For example constituents may be added back that were removed so long as the group of phrase specifications can still be aggregated. As is shown in block a level of generalization that permits the group of phrase specifications to still be aggregated is determined by the aggregator . In some example embodiments the constituents that were removed at block may be added back to the phrase specifications in the group providing the phrase specifications in the group are still aggregatable. In some example embodiments a generalized constituent may be added back to the phrase specification instead of the removed constituent if the generalized constituent enables the group of phrase specification to still be aggregatable whereas adding the removed constituent would render the group of phrase specifications no longer aggregatable. Alternatively or additionally less generalized constituents as defined by the generalized constituent listing may replace the generalized constituents providing the phrase specifications in the group are still aggregatable.

Alternatively or additionally other methods of generalization may be used by the aggregator for example the aggregator may incrementally generalize one or more phrase specifications until the one or more phrase specifications are aggregatable alternatively the aggregator may determine multiple levels of generalization for each phrase specification and aggregate the phrase specifications based on the lowest level of generalization and or the like.

At block an aggregated phrase specification is generated. In some example embodiments the aggregated phrase specification may contain a combination of the constituents such as a combined noun phrase that contains the identified aggregatable constituents and further contains one or more additional constituents based on the determined level of generalization. For example the aggregated phrase specification may contain the combined noun phrase and the one or more generalized constituents but may otherwise be a copy of a phrase specification of the one or more phrase specifications in the group of phrase specifications. At block the aggregated phrase specification may be output by the aggregator to the microplanner and or realizer for use in generating an output text.

By way of example and with reference to the aggregator may input one or more phrase specifications shown as sentences in this example such as heart rate was stable at 72 yesterday mean blood pressure was unstable yesterday with mean value 95 and respiratory rate was stable at 16 yesterday . In order to generalize the one or more phrase specifications those constituents that are generalizable or removable may be identified. For example at 72 in heart rate was stable at 72 yesterday and at 16 in respiratory rate was stable at 16 yesterday may be marked as generalizable based on the domain model business rules a user setting and or the like. In some examples both at 72 and at 16 may be generalized as within the normal range based on a generalizable constituent listing in the domain model. In some examples yesterday in both heart rate was stable at 72 yesterday and respiratory rate was stable at 16 yesterday may be marked as removable. Both with mean value 95 and yesterday may also be marked as removable in mean blood pressure was unstable yesterday with mean value 95 . Those constituents marked as removable may be indicated as such by the domain model business rules a user setting and or the like.

As such the one or more phrase specifications may be generalized by removing each of the removable constituents and by replacing each of the generalizable constituents with generalized constituents. The one or more generalized phrase specifications may then contain heart rate was stable within normal range mean blood pressure was unstable and respiratory rate was stable within normal range in some example embodiments.

A group of generalized phrase specifications may then be identified. A group of generalized phrase specifications may include those phrase specifications that can be aggregated e.g. phrase specifications that are identical but for the aggregatable constituent . In an instance in which reordering is permitted heart rate was stable within normal range and respiratory rate was stable within normal range may be determined as aggregatable because they are identical but for the aggregatable constituents heart rate and respiratory rate and thus form a group. Mean blood pressure was unstable is not aggregatable with the other phrase specifications based on the constituent was unstable . Reordering would be necessary in this example because the original input had heart rate was stable within normal range as the first phrase specification mean blood pressure was unstable as the second phrase specification and respiratory rate was stable within normal range as the third specification. As such for heart rate was stable within normal range and respiratory rate was stable within normal range would be reordered. In an instance in which reordering as not permitted then these phrase specifications would not be aggregatable.

Once a group of phrase specifications consisting of heart rate was stable within normal range and respiratory rate was stable within normal range is determined to be aggregatable those phrase specifications within the group are analyzed to determine the level of generalization that would still enable the phrase specifications within the group to be aggregated. For example the constituent yesterday was removed from both phrase specifications and as such the addition of the constituent yesterday back to the phrase specifications would still enable the phrase specifications to be aggregated because each of the phrase specifications in the group would remain identical but for the aggregatable constituent. Whereas there may not be a more specific way to express the constituents at 72 and at 16 in a similar manner and as such the generalization within the normal range may represent the lowest level of generalization that is available for these phrase specifications. Consequently the phrase specifications to be aggregated may include heart rate was stable within normal range yesterday and respiratory rate was stable within normal range yesterday .

The aggregatable constituents heart rate and respiratory rate may be combined to form combined noun phrase heart rate and respiratory rate . In some examples the aggregator may generate the noun phrase heart and respiratory rate . Heart and respiratory rate may then be combined with or otherwise instantiated in an aggregated phrase specification with the remaining constituents in a phrase specification of the group of phrase specifications. The aggregated phrase specification is configured to contain those constituents of the phrase specification of the group of phrase specifications based on the determined level of generalization e.g. were stable within normal range yesterday . As such the resultant aggregated phrase specification contains heart and respiratory rate were stable within normal range yesterday . Therefore an output text may include the aggregated phrase specification heart and respiratory rate were stable within normal range yesterday and any unchanged e.g. not aggregated phrase specifications in original form e.g. not generalized such as mean blood pressure was unstable yesterday with mean value 95 .

In the example embodiment shown computing system comprises a computer memory memory a display one or more processors input output devices e.g. keyboard mouse CRT or LCD display touch screen gesture sensing device and or the like other computer readable media and communications interface . The processor may for example be embodied as various means including one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor s one or more processor s without an accompanying digital signal processor one or more coprocessors one or more multi core processors one or more controllers processing circuitry one or more computers various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as for example an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA or some combination thereof. Accordingly although illustrated in as a single processor in some embodiments the processor comprises a plurality of processors. The plurality of processors may be in operative communication with each other and may be collectively configured to perform one or more functionalities of the reference system as described herein.

The natural language generation system is shown residing in memory . The memory may comprise for example transitory and or non transitory memory such as volatile memory non volatile memory or some combination thereof. Although illustrated in as a single memory the memory may comprise a plurality of memories. The plurality of memories may be embodied on a single computing device or may be distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the natural language system the microplanner and or the reference system. In various example embodiments the memory may comprise for example a hard disk random access memory cache memory flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc read only memory DVD ROM an optical disc circuitry configured to store information or some combination thereof.

In other embodiments some portion of the contents some or all of the components of the natural language generation system may be stored on and or transmitted over the other computer readable media . The components of the natural language generation system preferably execute on one or more processors and are configured to enable operation of an aggregator as described herein.

Alternatively or additionally other code or programs e.g. an administrative interface a Web server and the like and potentially other data repositories such as other data sources also reside in the memory and preferably execute on one or more processors . Of note one or more of the components in may not be present in any specific implementation. For example some embodiments may not provide other computer readable media or a display .

The natural language generation system is further configured to provide functions such as those described with reference to . The natural language generation system may interact with the network via the communications interface with remote data sources e.g. remote reference data remote performance data remote aggregation data remote knowledge pools and or the like third party content providers and or client devices . The network may be any combination of media e.g. twisted pair coaxial fiber optic radio frequency hardware e.g. routers switches repeaters transceivers and protocols e.g. TCP IP UDP Ethernet Wi Fi WiMAX Bluetooth that facilitate communication between remotely situated humans and or devices. In some instance the network may take the form of the internet or may be embodied by a cellular network such as an LTE based network. In this regard the communications interface may be capable of operating with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types access types and or the like. The client devices include desktop computing systems notebook computers mobile phones smart phones personal digital assistants tablets and or the like.

In an example embodiment components modules of the natural language generation system are implemented using standard programming techniques. For example the natural language generation system may be implemented as a native executable running on the processor along with one or more static or dynamic libraries. In other embodiments the natural language generation system may be implemented as instructions processed by a virtual machine that executes as one of the other programs . In general a range of programming languages known in the art may be employed for implementing such example embodiments including representative implementations of various programming language paradigms including but not limited to object oriented e.g. Java C C Visual Basic.NET Smalltalk and the like functional e.g. ML Lisp Scheme and the like procedural e.g. C Pascal Ada Modula and the like scripting e.g. Perl Ruby Python JavaScript VBScript and the like and declarative e.g. SQL Prolog and the like .

The embodiments described above may also use synchronous or asynchronous client server computing techniques. Also the various components may be implemented using more monolithic programming techniques for example as an executable running on a single processor computer system or alternatively decomposed using a variety of structuring techniques including but not limited to multiprogramming multithreading client server or peer to peer running on one or more computer systems each having one or more processors. Some embodiments may execute concurrently and asynchronously and communicate using message passing techniques. Equivalent synchronous embodiments are also supported. Also other functions could be implemented and or performed by each component module and in different orders and by different components modules yet still achieve the described functions.

In addition programming interfaces to the data stored as part of the natural language generation system such as by using one or more application programming interfaces can be made available by mechanisms such as through application programming interfaces API e.g. C C C and Java libraries for accessing files databases or other data repositories through scripting languages such as XML or through Web servers FTP servers or other types of servers providing access to stored data. The message store the domain model and or the linguistic resources may be implemented as one or more database systems file systems or any other technique for storing such information or any combination of the above including implementations using distributed computing techniques. Alternatively or additionally the message store the domain model and or the linguistic resources may be local data stores but may also be configured to access data from the remote data sources .

Different configurations and locations of programs and data are contemplated for use with techniques described herein. A variety of distributed computing techniques are appropriate for implementing the components of the illustrated embodiments in a distributed manner including but not limited to TCP IP sockets RPC RMI HTTP Web Services XML RPC JAX RPC SOAP and the like . Other variations are possible. Also other functionality could be provided by each component module or existing functionality could be distributed amongst the components modules in different ways yet still achieve the functions described herein.

Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the components of the natural language generation system may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs and the like. Some or all of the system components and or data structures may also be stored as contents e.g. as executable or other machine readable software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium so as to enable or configure the computer readable medium and or one or more associated computing systems or devices to execute or otherwise use or provide the contents to perform at least some of the described techniques. Some or all of the system components and data structures may also be stored as data signals e.g. by being encoded as part of a carrier wave or included as part of an analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums which are then transmitted including across wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

If there are two are more phrase specifications that contain a constituent that is aggregatable then the phrase specifications may be generalized in operations and to create one or more generalized phrase specifications. A phrase specification may be generalized by identifying constituents in the phrase specification that are either generalizable or removable. As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for removing all constituents identified as removable. As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for replacing all constituents identified as generalizable with a most generalized constituent from a generalized constituent listing.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for causing phrase specifications that can be aggregated based on one or more removed or generalized constituents to be grouped into phrase specification groups and stored in a data structure ListPhraseSpecGroups. In some example embodiments the two or more generalized phrase specifications are identified as aggregatable in an instance in which each of the two or more generalized phrase specifications are identical but for the aggregatable constituents in each of the two or more generalized phrase specifications.

Operations in some example embodiments are configured to generate aggregated phrase specifications for each of the groups of phrase specifications. As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for setting a data structure PhraseSpecGroup to a first group of phrase specifications in ListPhraseSpecGroups.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for generating an aggregated phrase specification based on at least one phrase specification in PhraseSpecGroup. As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for populating the aggregated phrase specification with a combined noun phrase or other aggregation of the constituents that are identified as aggregatable constituents in the phrase specifications in PhraseSpecGroup. As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for populating the aggregated phrase specification with one or more constituents based on a determined level of generalization. Populating the aggregated phrase specification with one or more constituents based on a determined level of generalization is further described with reference to .

As is shown in decision operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for determining whether there are additional groups of phrase specifications in ListPhraseSpecGroups. If so then as is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for setting PhraseSpecGroup to the next group of phrase specifications in ListPhraseSpecGroups. The process then loops back to operation . If there are not an additional group of phrase specifications in ListPhraseSpecGroups then as is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for outputting one or more aggregated phrase specifications and or one or more phrase specifications that were not aggregated.

If a constituent was removed in operation then as is shown in decision operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for determining whether the phrase specifications in PhraseSpecGroup would still be aggregatable with the removed constituent or a generalized version of the removed constituent. If not then the process continues to decision operation .

If the phrase specifications in PhraseSpecGroup would still be aggregatable with the removed constituent or a generalized version of the removed constituent then as is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for populating the aggregated phrase specification with the removed constituent or a generalized constituent of the removed constituent provided that it is consistent with the other phrase specifications in PhraseSpecGroup and as such the PhraseSpecGroup is still aggregatable.

As is shown in decision operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for determining whether a constituent was generalized in operation from a phrase specification in PhraseSpecGroup. If not then the process ends.

If a constituent was generalized in operation then as is shown in decision operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for determining whether the phrase specifications in PhraseSpecGroup would still be aggregatable with a less generalized version of the generalized constituent. If not then the process ends.

If the phrase specifications in PhraseSpecGroup would still be aggregatable with a less generalized version of the generalized constituent then as is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the microplanner the aggregator the processor or the like for populating the aggregated phrase specification with another generalized constituent such as a less generalized constituent from the constituent listing provided that it is consistent with the other phrase specifications in PhraseSpecGroup and as such the PhraseSpecGroup is still aggregatable. In some example embodiments and provided one or more generalized constituents would still enable the PhraseSpecGroup to be aggregatable the aggregator is configured to select the least generalized constituent or the constituent that closest to the original constituent. Alternatively or additionally a generalized constituent may be generated based on a predefined constituent listing that is defined by the domain model and is configured to provide constituents from least general to most general.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions and combinations of operations for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowcharts and combinations of blocks in the flowchart can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In some example embodiments certain ones of the operations herein may be modified or further amplified as described herein. Moreover in some embodiments additional optional operations may also be included. It should be appreciated that each of the modifications optional additions or amplifications described herein may be included with the operations herein either alone or in combination with any others among the features described herein.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

