---

title: M2M services enablement architecture for cellular access networks
abstract: A Machine-to-Machine (M2M) services enablement architecture () for a cellular Access Network (AN) () that allows the cellular AN operator to not only deploy its M2M Services Capabilities (SC) as an M2M SC Server () within its network domain, but to also use its M2M SC to work as an M2M SC Proxy () when communicating with an M2M Service Provider (SP) network () that also deploys an M2M SC Server (). The M2M SC Proxy in the cellular AN relays all signaling plane communications between an M2M device's/gateway's SC () and the SP's M2M SC Server. The M2M SC Proxy provides the cellular AN with an access to all of the Across-Layers (Transport and Service Layers) information needed for the M2M services enablement in the cellular AN. This proxy-based solution allows the cellular AN to serve all types of M2M SPs, and relieves the M2M SP from the need to support different cellular AN interworking interfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398398&OS=09398398&RS=09398398
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 09398398
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20150515
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 517 790 filed Jun. 14 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 131 330 which claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 508 243 filed on Jul. 15 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 510 301 filed on Jul. 21 2011 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. This application is related to commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 517 733 filed Jun. 14 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 989 091 entitled Dynamic M2M Services Enablement Solution Over 3GPP Access Networks .

The present disclosure relates to Machine to Machine M2M communications. More particularly and not by way of limitation particular embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to a system and method that allows a cellular Access Network AN to be used to enable an access agnostic M2M Services Architecture that supports provision of M2M Services by an M2M Service Provider SP .

Machine to Machine M2M communications involve the communication using wired or wireless means or a combination of both between two machines without human intervention. It is noted here that the term M2M communication is also referred to as Machine Type Communication MTC in certain literature. However for the sake of consistency only the term M2M communication is used in the discussion herein. Some examples of M2M communications are smart metering e.g. remote reading of a utility meter healthcare monitoring e.g. remote monitoring of a patient s heart rate agricultural monitoring e.g. monitoring of a crop condition fleet management tracking e.g. monitoring current status of trucks on road security surveillance e.g. automatic real time monitoring of a building or complex billing transactions inventory management e.g. through monitoring of Point of Sale POS transactions in a supermarket etc. These M2M communications typically use M2M communications capable sensors or diagnostic devices which may perform the metering monitoring etc. mentioned earlier on one end and an M2M user device or receiver on the other end to receive data e.g. wirelessly via a cellular Access Network as discussed below with reference to from the sensor devices and process the data as per desired M2M service e.g. utility metering service healthcare monitoring service billing preparation service etc. .

All of the too many different M2M services use certain common M2M Services Capabilities SC such as SCs related to routing security allocation of respective resources discovery and reachability of other entities in the cloud e.g. a carrier network etc. These M2M Services Capabilities are usually used by all different M2M services e.g. on M2M user devices in an M2M Service Provider SP network etc. while communicating with the M2M Application s Server AS in the M2M Service Provider SP network.

In general the M2M communications also may be referred to as M2M services that are bound to a Service Layer while a cellular Access Network AN which is discussed in more detail below may provide a Transport Layer for the M2M communications to take place. In order for any M2M services enablement architecture to work in a very flexible way and with the ability to offer the M2M services freely and independently of the access network operator it may be preferable for any such M2M services enablement architecture to rely on the separation between the Transport AN based and the Service SP network based Layers. With this preference in mind a European Telecommunications Standards Institute M2M Technical Committee ETSI M2M TC has been working on defining an M2M Service Layer SL Architecture that comprises the following main principles 

 I Overall Aspects a An M2M service enablement architecture that is access agnostic i.e. significantly independent of underlying cellular AN technology . b Loosely coupled architecture between the transport and the service layers. c No M2M service changes required when moving from one Access Network to another. d Simultaneous access to the same M2M Service Layer from different Access Networks.

 II Access and Device Aspects An M2M service enablement architecture that supports the following types of devices a A Direct Access M2M Device that supports direct access to a cellular network. b An M2M Gateway that supports the cellular network access with Indirect Access M2M Devices discussed below connected to it. This gateway may work as a concentrator e.g. of data received from multiple Indirect Access devices connected thereto . c An Indirect Access M2M Device that is connected to an M2M Gateway and that does not support direct access to a cellular network.

 III Network Aspects An M2M service enablement architecture that makes use of the following a Transport and Service Layers separation as much as possible . b M2M services can be offered independent of specific access network operator. c Common M2M Services Capabilities SC are defined to be used by all M2M applications. This common M2M SC could be deployed separate from the M2M specific Application s Server AS .

As shown in the cellular AN may include multiple cell sites each under the radio coverage of a respective base station BS or base transceiver station BTS . These base stations may receive wireless communication as indicated by exemplary radio links A C from various M2M communication entities discussed in detail below with reference to operating in an M2M device domain and forward the received communication to an M2M core portion of the cellular network . The M2M core may include a cellular backhaul portion and a cellular Core Network CN . In case of a Third Generation 3G base station for example the cellular backhaul may include functionalities of a 3G Radio Network Controller RNC or Base Station Controller BSC . Portions of the backhaul such as for example BSC s or RNC s together with base stations may be considered to comprise the RAN portion of the network . Examples of such RANs include Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Networks UTRAN Evolved UTRAN E UTRAN GSM EDGE RAN GERAN where GSM refers to Global System for Mobile communications and EDGE refers to Enhanced Data Rate for GSM Evolution systems Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX systems based on Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard IEEE 802.16e etc. The Core Network CN on the other hand may provide logical service and control functions e.g. subscriber account management billing subscriber mobility management etc. Internet Protocol IP connectivity and interconnection to other networks e.g. the Internet or entities roaming support etc. The CN may be for example a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP CN a Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 CN for Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based cellular systems or an ETSI TISPAN TIPHON Telecommunications and Internet Protocol Harmonization over Networks and SPAN Services and Protocols for Advanced Networks CN.

As mentioned earlier ETSI s proposed M2M services enablement architecture such as the architecture in relies on a common M2M SC enablement application e.g. related to routing security etc. that is defined to be used by all M2M applications. This M2M SC enablement application referred to herein as simply the M2M SC may provide M2M functions that can be shared by different M2M applications whether residing on an M2M AS or on an M2M communication entity shown in and discussed later below and expose these functions through a set of open interfaces not shown . The M2M SC may utilize Core Network functionalities while simplifying and optimizing M2M application development and deployment through hiding of network specificities. Various M2M applications provide program code which upon execution by respective M2M communication entities or user device may provide application specific M2M services such as the smart metering service the healthcare monitoring service etc. discussed earlier. Relevant portions of the M2M SC may reside on each M2M communication entity as shown for example in as well as on the M2M user device . Thus an M2M application e.g. the M2M application in may run the service logic not shown and use corresponding M2M SC e.g. the M2M SC in accessible via an open interface to facilitate provision of an M2M service supported by the M2M SP . The M2M SC may interact with an M2M Application s Server AS in the M2M SP using an appropriate Application Programming Interface API which may include a complete interface a single function or a set of application specific APIs to thereby facilitate provision of various M2M services associated with M2M applications supported by the M2M SP .

In the discussion below the terms M2M communication entity M2M entity and M2M Device may be used interchangeably for ease of discussion. For example depending on a given context the term M2M Device may refer to an M2M Device whether Direct Access or Indirect Access or an M2M Gateway or both. However if context dictates otherwise a device and a gateway may be specified individually rather than through the common terms M2M entity or M2M Device. Furthermore it is noted here that the M2M communication entity or Device may represent a User Equipment UE or Mobile Station MS also known by various analogous terms such as mobile handset wireless handset wireless device terminal etc. properly configured for M2M communications. Some examples of such mobile handsets devices include cellular telephones or data transfer equipments e.g. a Personal Digital Assistant PDA or a pager smartphones e.g. iPhone Android Blackberry etc. computers Bluetooth devices etc.

As shown in the M2M entity or device may include device specific M2M Application s or program code and device specific M2M SC . Thus the M2M Device runs M2M Application s using its own M2M SC to provide M2M service s e.g. to the M2M User for which it is designed or configured. In the discussion below when the M2M communication entity is an M2M Device whether Direct Access or Indirect Access such device specific SC may be referred to D SC and when the M2M entity is an M2M Gateway such device specific SC may be referred to as G SC so as to distinguish between SC s in M2M Devices and Gateways. A shortened version D G SC may be used in the discussion below to refer to both of these SC s together. The M2M Device may be considered to support access to the cellular network e.g. 3GPP access logically as if it were a combination of two logical M2M Devices an M2M Access Transport Device and an M2M Service Device . Although not specified herein or always mentioned below for the sake of brevity it is understood that when the M2M entity is an M2M Gateway the reference numerals and may refer to an M2M Access Transport Gateway and an M2M Service Gateway respectively. The M2M Access Transport Device may support all aspects of the 3GPP access air interface and the 3GPP access network. On the other hand the M2M Service Device may support all aspects that are related to the M2M Service Layer SL . Such logical configuration may reflect the earlier mentioned separation between Transport and Service Layers. Thus for example the M2M Access Device may have a device identifier for transport level access to the cellular network that is different from the device identifier that is used on the service level for the M2M Service Device . Furthermore the M2M Service Device may include an M2M Application Identifier not shown and an M2M Service Subscription Identifier not shown to perform Service Layer operations whereas the M2M Transport Device may include M2M access network Subscription Identifier not shown and an M2M access network address not shown to support access interface with the cellular access network using the Transport Layer. Thus in case of an M2M application one portion of the application may reside on the M2M AS whereas a corresponding portion may reside on the M2M entity as part of M2M Application s . In that regard the M2M Service Device may host the M2M entity specific portion of the application and use the M2M Access Device to access the M2M AS in the SP network using the cellular network for transport.

It is observed from the above discussion that ETSI M2M TC is specifying an access agnostic M2M Service Layer SL architecture i.e. the architecture shown in and discussed in more detail in ETSI Technical Specification TS 102.69 titled Machine to Machine communications M2M Functional architecture so that an M2M SP can offer M2M services independent of the specific type of access network used by an M2M communication entity. In other words the ETSI M2M SL architecture provides a standard at the Service Layer SL regardless of what the Transport Access Layer is. However currently there is no enablement architecture as per ETSI TS 102.69 that clearly defines merged or interworking versions of cellular Transport Layer and M2M Service Layer architectures in such a manner as to allow the cellular AN to be used to enable a common M2M services architecture that is mainly in line with the principles of ETSI M2M SL architecture specified in above mentioned ETSI TS 102.69 while simultaneously allowing the cellular AN to have the proper control over what its network is being used for. Here the term common refers to the access agnostic nature of such M2M SL architecture i.e. a common SL architecture that can function with many different IP based access networks such as for example 3GPP 3GPP2 Long Term Evolution LTE Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Fixed Access Forum General Packet Radio Service GPRS and CDMA 2000 1 networks .

On the other hand even though 3GPP System Architecture Working Group 2 SA2 has identified some aspects of the enablement of the M2M architecture in a 3GPP cellular access network in AN controlled or SP controlled configurations in that architecture 3GPP SA2 has not identified how the different possible access networks and M2M Service Provider networks would work to enable a comprehensive solution that allows the cellular access network to be aware of the type of M2M services that are being offered on top of the access network transport. For example 3GPP SA2 has not addressed the following cases 

 1 How a 3GPP access network which deploys an M2M SC within the access operator s network is able to interwork serve and communicate with an M2M Service Provider SP network that also deploys an M2M SC in its network.

 2 When an M2M Device roams into a Visited Access Network that deploys M2M SC how the Home Access Network can be used to allow the Visited Access Network to route some M2M services directly to the M2M SP network while other M2M services are routed via the Home Access Network.

 3 How a 3GPP access network that deploys M2M SC in line with ETSI M2M SL architecture is able to offer services to other M2M Service Providers that deploy a different M2M SL architecture i.e. not in line with ETSI M2M SL architecture . Such non ETSI M2M SL architecture may be variously referred to herein as M2M Service Layer Other or M2M Services Other or M2M SL Other or M2M SL OTH. 

 4 How a 3GPP access network regardless of where the M2M SC is deployed is able to allow its transport services to be used by M2M services when the access network does not have a Service Level Agreement SLA with the M2M SP.

 5 How a 3GPP access network that does not deploy M2M SC is able to interwork serve and communicate with an M2M SP network that also does not deploy an M2M SC in its network.

Like 3GPP SA2 3GPP2 is also trying to specify e.g. in 3GPP2 report X.P0067 0 titled Machine to Machine Architecture and Enhancement Study for cdma2000 Networks an M2M services enablement architecture that uses 3GPP2 access networks CDMA based to offer M2M services in line with ETSI M2M SL architecture and any other M2M SL architecture. However 3GPP2 s architecture also fails to address the above mentioned cases listed in the context of 3GPP SA2 .

Another problem not covered in the existing solutions is how an M2M service provider can use multiple IP addresses to put forward its services. For example an M2M SP that utilizes 3GPP 3GPP2 and fixed IP accesses to support its services.

Currently legacy M2M services solution that is used by 3GPP access networks is not clearly defined and does not follow a specific or well defined M2M SL architecture such as the M2M SL architecture defined by ETSI TS 102.69 . Existing proprietary or operator specific solutions do not use a common M2M SC concept. Rather such solutions use a specific solution for each M2M application which is the reason behind the whole industry s effort to identify a common i.e. generic or access agnostic M2M SL architecture that can be used by any access network for all M2M applications.

It is therefore desirable to devise an interworking solution as to how to allow the cellular AN to be used to enable a common M2M services architecture that is mainly in line with the principles of ETSI M2M SL architecture e.g. separation of Transport and Service Layers common M2M SC to be used by all M2M applications etc. as discussed earlier while simultaneously allowing the cellular AN operator to have the proper control over what its network is being used for. In other words it is desirable to enable the cellular AN to offer its specific services e.g. transport services to any M2M Services while at the same time being able to enforce its Service Level Agreement SLA to collect proper billing information to anticipate the needed capacity management for the M2M services that are being offered etc.

Furthermore for such common M2M services enablement architecture to be successfully used and adopted by different cellular accesses that support for example 3GPP access network architecture and Core Network CN it is also desirable to provide a detailed solution that identifies and addresses the following concerns of interworking across Service and Transport Layers.

 a The ability of the 3GPP access network to be aware preferably dynamically of the Across Layers A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier which may be the same as what is sometimes referred to as the M2M Device Gateway External Identifier which is typically used by entities e.g. an M2M SC server in the M2M SP network that are external to the 3GPP network to identify an M2M Device Gateway that is used for MTC within the 3GPP system . Such an External Identifier may be distinguished from an Internal Identifier which is a subscription related identifier used within the 3GPP system to uniquely identify an M2M communication entity used for MTC. This Internal Identifier may not be necessarily known by entities external to the 3GPP network. In the discussion herein a parameter e.g. a Device Gateway Identifier or information is considered to be Across Layers or A Layers parameter information when the parameter information is needed for the enablement of M2M services by both the Transport and the Service Layers. For ease of discussion the term A Layers M2M Device Identifier may be occasionally used to refer to A Layers identifier of an M2M device and or gateway.

A dynamic solution is preferred because of its flexibility to accommodate changes to various needed parameters e.g. A Layers parameters on the fly and in a cost effective manner. On the other hand if an M2M device gateway is pre configured e.g. by its M2M Services Provider with needed parameters then it may be difficult to change such pre configured devices gateways in the field for example when their associated M2M Services Provider changes or its M2M subscription changes.

 b The ability of the 3GPP access network to map the A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier to the 3GPP access subscription and 3GPP Access Subscription identifier.

 c The ability of the 3GPP access network to correctly identify and map the IP traffic that is coming from different M2M SP networks towards the same M2M Access Device e.g. the M2M Access Device shown in .

 d The ability of the 3GPP access network to correctly find the reachability of the M2M Service Device e.g. the M2M Service Device shown in based on traffic that is being sent to a specific A Layers M2M Device Identifier a specific M2M D G SC and or a specific M2M application.

 e The ability of the 3GPP access network to know the type of the M2M application that is running on top of the M2M Access Device used by the M2M Service Device. This may be desirable in order for the 3GPP access network to identify the proper Quality of Service QoS that is needed for the specific M2M application.

 f The ability of the M2M SP network to send traffic to the specific M2M Service Device M2M D G SC and or M2M application.

 g The ability of the M2M SP network to be able to configure the M2M communication entity with the proper A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier during the first service initial attach to the SP network. A dynamic solution may be preferable as mentioned in sub part a above. The solution should ensure that the A Layers M2M D G Identifier configured by the M2M SP network is also available to the 3GPP AN and unique within the 3GPP AN.

 h The M2M SP network should be aware of the M2M Services Subscription that authorizes the M2M Service Device Gateway to receive the identified M2M service.

 i The ability of the solution to offer simultaneous access to the same M2M Services Subscription from different access networks while having the proper identification and distinction of the different traffics coming over such different access networks.

Particular embodiments of the present disclosure provide a solution to the above mentioned problem of devising a common M2M services enablement architecture which is based on ETSI s principle of separation between the Service and Transport layers by introducing the following aspects 

 I The use of M2M Proxy. This approach allows the cellular AN operator to not only deploy its M2M SC as an M2M SC Server within its network domain but to also use its M2M SC to work as an M2M SC Proxy when communicating with an M2M SP network that also deploys an M2M SC Server.

 II Allow the visited cellular AN that deploys an M2M SC within its network to route M2M services directly to the M2M SP network which may be home M2M SP or visited M2M SP . This is based on the home cellular AN policy that may reflect the M2M Transport subscription. It also could be based on the M2M SP network policy and or the M2M Services subscription.

 III Allow the cellular AN operator to offer M2M Services to M2M Services Providers that deploy an M2M SL architecture that is different from the ETSI SL architecture by defining the needed Interworking Function IWKF .

 IV Allow the cellular AN provider to offer its transport and other services to any M2M SP network regardless of the SP network architecture with respect to M2M SC i.e. whether M2M SC is deployed inside the SP network or not.

 V Allow the cellular AN provider to offer its transport and other services to any M2M SP network whether the cellular AN operator has an existing SLA with the SP or not.

Particular embodiments of the present disclosure further provide an M2M Services Enablement Solution MSES that addresses how to use the above mentioned common M2M services enablement architecture in the context of an exemplary 3GPP Access Network. This solution allows a 3GPP AN to offer a transport connection for M2M Devices over its 3GPP Evolved Packet Core EPC to M2M Device s per choice M2M SP. The present disclosure s solution for M2M Services Enablement does not change the existing access network procedures for establishing a transport connection over the AN using its air interface. In other words except for small enhancements the transport layer connection establishment may continue to use the same procedures defined by the AN standards. In addition such solution according to the present disclosure also provides a dynamic mechanism that allows configuration of the Across Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier while the 3GPP AN the M2M SP and the M2M Device are fully aware of this A Layers M2M D G Identifier. Thus particular embodiments of the present disclosure offer a common solution for the offering of M2M Services Enablement to any M2M Device that uses any cellular access which uses 3GPP EPC for providing a transport connection.

In one embodiment the present disclosure is directed to a cellular Access Network AN operatively coupled to a Machine to Machine M2M Service Provider SP wherein the cellular AN comprises an M2M Services Capabilities SC deployed inside the cellular AN and configured to function as an M2M SC Proxy when the M2M SP deploys an M2M SC Server and no M2M SC Server is deployed in the cellular AN. The M2M SC Proxy is configured to act on behalf of the M2M SC Server in the M2M SP and to relay signaling plane communication between an entity specific SC in an M2M communication entity and the M2M SC Server in the M2M SP wherein the M2M communication entity is in wireless communication with the cellular AN and accesses the M2M SP via the cellular AN. The cellular AN also comprises an InterWorking Function IWKF configured to provide an interworking interface between the cellular AN and the M2M SP.

In another embodiment the present disclosure is directed to an improvement in an M2M communication configuration that is based on a separation between a Transport Layer supported by a cellular AN and a Service Layer supported by an M2M SP and b usage of a common M2M SC for all M2M applications. The improvement comprises deploying the M2M SC inside the cellular AN as an M2M SC Proxy when the M2M SP deploys an M2M SC Server and no M2M SC server is deployed in the cellular AN. The M2M SC Proxy is configured to act on behalf of the M2M SC Server in the SP and to relay signaling plane communication between an entity specific SC in an M2M communication entity and the M2M SC Server in the M2M SP wherein the M2M communication entity is in wireless communication with the cellular AN and accesses the M2M SP via the cellular AN. The improvement also comprises co locating an IWKF within the M2M SC Proxy wherein the IWKF is configured to provide an interworking interface between the cellular AN and the M2M SP.

In a further embodiment the present disclosure is directed to a method of providing M2M communication using a cellular AN that is operatively coupled to an M2M SP. The method is implemented in the cellular AN and comprises deploying an M2M SC inside the cellular AN configuring the M2M SC to function as an M2M SC Proxy when the M2M SP deploys an M2M SC Server and configuring the M2M SC Proxy to act on behalf of the M2M SC Server and to relay signaling plane communication between an entity specific SC in an M2M communication entity and the M2M SC Server in the M2M SP wherein the M2M communication entity is in wireless communication with the cellular AN and accesses the M2M SP via the cellular AN.

In another embodiment the present disclosure is directed to an M2M SC Proxy in a cellular AN wherein the cellular AN is operatively coupled to an M2M SP that deploys an M2M SC Server and no M2M SC Server is deployed in the cellular AN. The M2M SC Proxy is configured to perform the following i function as a proxy to the M2M SC Server in the M2M SP and act on behalf of the M2M SC Server in the M2M SP and ii relay signaling plane communication between an entity specific SC in an M2M communication entity and the M2M SC Server in the M2M SP wherein the M2M communication entity is in wireless communication with the cellular AN and accesses the M2M SP via the cellular AN.

The common M2M services enablement architecture that is in line with ETSI M2M SL architecture proposed in particular embodiments of the present disclosure enables the freedom to choose the M2M SP according to the dynamics of the market and at the same time provides the ability to have a loosely coupled M2M services architecture. The M2M services enablement architecture according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure thus provides the flexibility and means for a cellular AN operator to offer its access network services including transport layers to be used for serving M2M Services according to the ETSI M2M SL architecture and in a way that allows the cellular AN operator to achieve the following a Use a single deployment model by deploying M2M SC within its network while being able to serve all types of M2M Service operators. b Have an immediate and easy access to all information that is required for across layers functionalities. This information can be used to help the cellular AN operator to offer its AN in a more intelligent bit pipe. c Serve other M2M Service Providers who use non ETSI M2M SL architecture. d Have the flexibility to route M2M traffic in the visited network based on home cellular AN operator policy and M2M subscription.

The common M2M services enablement architecture according to particular embodiments of the present disclosure also allows the M2M SP to a Deploy M2M SC within its network without the need to support different cellular AN interworking interfaces. This may be achieved by allowing M2M SC proxy functionality inside the cellular AN. b Deploy its services on multiple access technologies simultaneously with the same deployment model.

In the exemplary case of a 3GPP Access Network certain embodiments of the present disclosure a Allow a 3GPP AN operator to offer its transport services to any M2M Device that uses the 3GPP EPC to connect to its per choice M2M SP while the 3GPP AN is fully aware of the A Layers identity of the M2M Device Gateway the type of the traffic that is being used over the transport connection and the M2M applications that use the provided transport connection. b Allow the M2M SP to offer its Initial Services Enablement to its M2M Devices that use any cellular access e.g. 3GPP E UTRAN CDMA2000 based Evolved High Rate Packet Data eHRPD etc. and to dynamically configure the M2M SP s per choice A Layers M2M Device Identifier and at the same time to be able to reach the M2M Device as long as it is registered. c Provide a dynamic solution for updating the M2M Access Subscription of an M2M device gateway with the dynamically allocated A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier and the updated M2M Network Services Capabilities N SC Access Point Names APNs e.g. SL signaling and SL Data APNs . d Provide a dynamic solution for updating the M2M Access Subscriber policy profile with the Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF using the dynamically allocated A Layers M2M Device Identifier and the M2M Applications and their associated QoS.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present disclosure. It should be understood that the disclosure is described primarily in the context of a 3GPP cellular telephone data network but it can be implemented in other forms of cellular wireless networks as well.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment or according to one embodiment or other phrases having similar import in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. Also depending on the context of discussion herein a singular term may include its plural forms and a plural term may include its singular form. Similarly a hyphenated term e.g. in line across layers etc. may be occasionally interchangeably used with its non hyphenated version e.g. inline across layers etc. a capitalized entry e.g. Proxy Services Enablement Architecture Access Network A Layers etc. may be interchangeably used with its non capitalized version e.g. proxy services enablement architecture access network A layers etc. and plural terms may be indicated with or without an apostrophe e.g. BSC s or BSCs SC s or SCs APN s or APNs etc. . Such occasional interchangeable uses shall not be considered inconsistent with each other.

It is noted at the outset that the terms coupled connected connecting electrically connected etc. are used interchangeably herein to generally refer to the condition of being electrically electronically connected. Similarly a first entity is considered to be in communication with a second entity or entities when the first entity electrically sends and or receives whether through wireline or wireless means information signals whether containing voice information or non voice data control information to from the second entity regardless of the type analog or digital of those signals. It is further noted that various figures including component diagrams shown and discussed herein are for illustrative purpose only and are not drawn to scale.

As shown in two different options based on the deployment of the common M2M SC may be a Option 1 Tightly coupled M2M Services Architecture in which the M2M SC is inside the SP network identified by reference numeral 82 and shown dotted in . This option is referred to as Option 1 referring to a first network configuration or NT at the bottom of . b Option 2 Loosely coupled or distributed M2M Services Architecture in which the M2M SC is inside the cellular AN identified by reference numeral and also shown dotted in . This option is indicated as Option 2 referring to a second network configuration or NT at the bottom of . In both the SP network and the cellular AN are shown by different dotted lines to indicate flexible architecture options resulting from the above two deployment options for the common M2M SC . It is observed here that the implementation of the above two deployment options would result in two different cellular access networks with M2M SC and without M2M SC and two different M2M SP networks with M2M SC and without M2M SC . Before discussing additional aspects of the architecture and different combinations of such access network and SP network configurations in further detail a brief overview of certain network elements in is provided now.

For the sake of brevity each network element or other entity in is not described in detail especially in view of earlier detailed discussion of similar elements entities in which discussion continues to apply in the context of as well . However a few additional details are provided for certain elements in . For example each of the base stations or access nodes may be a BS in a Third Generation 3G network or an evolved Node B eNodeB or Home eNodeB HeNB when the transport network is a Long Term Evolution LTE network. In other embodiments one or more of the BS s may also include a site controller an access point AP a radio tower or any other type of radio interface device capable of operating in a wireless environment. In one embodiment one or more of the base stations may be configured to implement an intra cell or inter cell Coordinated Multi Point CoMP transmission reception arrangement. In case of an LTE carrier network the core network may be an Access Gateway AGW . As is understood the cellular AN or depending on a particular configuration mentioned above may be a cellular telephone network or a Public Land Mobile Network PLMN in which the M2M Devices shown in but not shown in for the sake of simplicity of the drawing may be subscriber units. Furthermore portions of the cellular AN or may include independently or in combination any of the present or future wireline or wireless communication networks such as for example the PSTN an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS based network or a satellite based communication link. In certain embodiments the AN or may be connected to the Internet via its core network s connection to an IP packet switched network not shown or may include a portion of the Internet as part thereof. In one embodiment a cellular AN may include more or less or different type of functional entities than those shown in the context of the cellular AN or in .

Although various examples in the discussion below are provided primarily in the context of the cellular AN or being a 3GPP access network the teachings of the present disclosure may equally apply with suitable modifications as may be apparent to one skilled in the art using the present teachings to a number of different Frequency Division Multiplex FDM and Time Division Multiplex TDM based cellular wireless systems or networks as well as Frequency Division Duplex FDD and Time Division Duplex TDD wireless systems networks . Such cellular networks or systems may include for example standard based systems networks using Second Generation 2G 3G or Fourth Generation 4G specifications or non standard based systems. Some examples of such systems or networks include but not limited to GSM networks GPRS networks Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Alliance TIA EIA Interim Standard 136 IS 136 based TDMA systems Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA systems 3GPP LTE networks WCDMA based High Speed Packet Access HSPA systems 3GPP2 s CDMA based High Rate Packet Data HRPD or eHRPD systems CDMA2000 or TIA EIA IS 2000 systems EV DO systems WiMAX systems International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced IMT Advanced systems e.g. LTE Advanced systems other UTRAN or E UTRAN networks GSM EDGE systems Fixed Access Forum or other IP based access networks a non standard based proprietary corporate wireless network etc.

Referring back to the IWKF which may also be referred to as MTC IWKF or MTC IWF in certain literature may be implemented in the cellular AN or and one or more instances of such MTC IWKF may reside in the cellular AN or which may be for example a Home PLMN HPLMN for one or more M2M devices in the M2M device domain . The IWKF may be a stand alone entity or a functional entity of another network element e.g. an M2M SC Proxy discussed with reference to below . The IWKF may provide an interface and function as an intermediary entity to facilitate communication between the cellular CN and an M2M SC server also referred to in certain literature as an MTC server e.g. the M2M SC server shown in and discussed later below . The IWKF may be used for the control plane communication to hide the internal topology of the cellular AN or or for relay and translation of signaling protocols used for M2M communications to invoke specific functionality in the AN or . In one embodiment the IWKF may authenticate the M2M SC server before communication establishment with the cellular AN or may authorize control plane requests from the M2M SC server and or may support secure communications between the cellular AN or and the M2M SC server. In the bi directional dotted line indicates an optional user plane signaling between an AN based entity here the CN and an SP based entity here the AS . Other solid bi directional lines not identified individually in for the sake of brevity indicate typical user plane signaling and interconnection involving various entities in the cellular AN or as well as the SP network or .

The use of M2M SC in the cellular AN provide an entry point to the cellular AN provider to all the information that are needed for enforcing A Layers functionalities. In other words such use allows the cellular access network operator to have access to the needed information about the Across Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier possible M2M D G SC Identifier and M2M Applications that are running on the M2M service device e.g. the Service Device shown in which uses the M2M transport device e.g. the Access Transport Device in over the cellular access network air interface and Access Transport Layer. This option may work just fine when the M2M SC is deployed inside the cellular access operator network as an M2M SC Server not shown while the Services Provider network does not have the M2M SC deployed.

However when the cellular AN does not deploy an M2M SC server but the SP network deploys the common M2M SC as an M2M SC server e.g. the M2M SC Server shown in and discussed below it may be desirable to allow for the functionality of an M2M SC Proxy e.g. the M2M SC Proxy shown in which is discussed below in the cellular AN in order to allow the cellular access operator to have access to all the Across Layers information that are needed for the M2M services enablement.

It is noted here that current versions of both ETSI TS 102.69 and 3GPP Technical Report TR 23.888 titled System Improvements for Machine Type Communications fail to discuss such joint deployment of common M2M SC and related signaling and architectural details thereby leaving certain deployment and interworking options between the cellular AN and the SP network unaddressed. The embodiment in addresses this situation while remaining in compliance with ETSI M2M TC s principles regarding an access agnostic M2M SL architecture mentioned earlier under the Background section of the present disclosure. Thus in the architecture in the cellular access operator s M2M SC i.e. the common M2M SC deployed in the cellular AN acts as an M2M SC Proxy which is configured to relay all signaling plane communications between the D G SC s residing on respective M2M devices or gateways operating in the M2M device domain as mentioned earlier and the Services Provider s M2M SC Server . Not only that but the M2M SC proxy also may be configured to provide the cellular access operator with the access to all of the across layers information that are needed for the M2M services enablement in cellular access network. The use of M2M SC Proxy may provide many additional functionalities some examples of which are given below 

 1 Act as a Proxy on behalf of the M2M Services Provider s M2M SC Server. It is noted here that when the common M2M SC is deployed as an M2M SC server whether in the SP network or in the AN as discussed in more detail later below the D G SCs use this M2M SC server to register for M2M services. Thus here the M2M SC proxy is an M2M SC that works as a proxy to another M2M SC server here the M2M SC server in the M2M SP network . This approach allows the cellular AN operator to not only deploy its M2M SC as an M2M SC Server within its network domain but to also use its M2M SC to work as an M2M SC Proxy when communicating with an M2M SP network that also deploys an M2M SC Server.

 2 If the cellular access network s M2M SC works as an M2M SC proxy the M2M Services Provider may not need to directly interwork with the cellular core network for further services e.g. allocating IP addresses M2M device gateway discovery i.e. identifying how to reach a particular M2M communication entity etc. offered by the cellular access operator network. This may allow the IWKF interface to be co located within the cellular access network s M2M SC Proxy as shown in thereby providing an efficient architecture. Generally two interworking related possibilities arise in case of the proxy server configuration of a The interworking functionality is already implemented in the M2M SC server in which case it does not matter to the M2M SC server how the IWKF interface is deployed in the AN . b The interworking functionality is not implemented in the M2M SC server . In this case the M2M SC proxy may provide the needed interworking through co located IWKF . Thus in either case the SP based M2M SC server may not need to support the IWK function . In any event in one embodiment if the M2M SC Proxy is enabled and supported the M2M SP may always communicate with the AN over the same interface i.e. when the SP has its own M2M SC server this server may communicate with another server here the M2M SC proxy in a routine manner and may not need to be aware of the IWKF interface or how such interface is implemented in the access network. It is observed however that IWKF may be implemented separately from the M2M SC proxy e.g. between the CN and the M2M SC proxy in the manner illustrated in in certain embodiments and hence may not be co located within M2M SC proxy in those embodiments.

 3 Have access to the signaling communication between the G D SC and the M2M Services Provider network s M2M SC server . This may eliminate further signaling and provide much needed optimization that may be required in the case when the M2M SC server is within the M2M Services Provider and needs any of the cellular access network services. For example in case of a specific Device ID the M2M SP and the cellular AN may need to agree on the specific Device ID e.g. the A Layers M2M Device Identifier mentioned before that will be used between the SP and the AN provider. In that case having an interface e.g. the API based interface shown in between the M2M server and Proxy may provide the cellular AN with the chance to get this information here the specific Device ID over to the SP network via this interface. Otherwise some other signaling or procedure must be used to communicate this information between these two entities.

As shown in in one embodiment the memory in the proxy may also store different A Layers information also referred to interchangeably as A Layers parameters and make that information available to the PCU as needed to assist the PCU in enabling the cellular AN operator with the access to all of the needed across layers information for the M2M services enablement in the cellular AN . As mentioned before in one embodiment the A Layers parameters is a device s gateway s external identifier such as for example the earlier mentioned A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier . In one embodiment these A Layers parameters may reside in the M2M device gateway and the proxy may retrieve them from the M2M device gateway. In an embodiment where an M2M server or other similar element in the SP network stores such information which also may have been retrieved from the device gateway the proxy may then receive this information from that server. The M2M SC proxy may interact with the cellular CN and the SP network more specifically the M2M SC server in the embodiment of via an interface unit which may include the optional IWKF as shown by a dotted block in in certain embodiments. The interface unit also may be coupled to the PCU and may accomplish the desired proxy supported interworking functionality through instructions from the PCU .

The PCU may include by way of example a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC and or a state machine. The PCU may employ distributed processing in certain embodiments.

As mentioned before the proxy functionality discussed herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable storage medium e.g. the memory in for execution by a general purpose computer or a processor e.g. the PCU in . Examples of computer readable storage media include a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a digital register a cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks magnetic tapes and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and Digital Versatile Disks DVDs . In certain embodiments the memory may employ distributed data storage with without redundancy.

Alternative embodiments of the M2M SC proxy may include additional components responsible for providing additional functionality including any of the functionality identified above and or any functionality necessary to support the solution as per the teachings of the present disclosure described above. It is noted here that additional architectural details of the proxy are not shown in merely for the sake of simplicity. Thus for example input output I O devices e.g. a computer keyboard a touch screen a computer display monitor a computer mouse etc. attached to or associated with the proxy are not shown in . However it is understood that various I O and other external devices systems which may operate in conjunction with the M2M SC proxy may be used with the proxy to accomplish various proxy related functions discussed in particular embodiments of the present disclosure.

Section II Routing of Certain M2M Services in the Visited Access Network while Others Through the Home Access Network

When some M2M Devices and or Gateways roam to a visited cellular Access Network not shown for example when such devices gateways are mounted on a mobile carrier such as for example a truck an airplane etc. that deploys M2M SC e.g. the M2M SC in the generic architecture of therewithin while the home access network of these devices gateways does not deploy M2M SC within its cellular access network the home access network not shown may still have the chance to allow the visited cellular access operator to route some of the M2M services signaling and traffic locally i.e. through visited network but without going through the home access network to the M2M Services Provider which may be a visited M2M SP or a home M2M SP .

When the M2M Device Gateway roams into a visited cellular access network the home cellular access network based on local home access network operator and M2M Access subscriber policy may indicate e.g. during user authentication based on the Service Level Agreements SLAs between the home and visited network operators etc. to the visited access network which traffic could be routed directly and locally to the M2M Services Provider network which as mentioned earlier may be a visited M2M SP or a home M2M SP . In one embodiment the use of M2M SC e.g. the M2M SC in the generic architecture of as mentioned before as a proxy inside the visited cellular access network similar to the configuration shown in may provide the visited cellular access network the information that it needs to be able to have access to all across layers information that are needed for allowing the visited network to locally route such traffic. In one embodiment the decision of routing specific traffic via the visited cellular access network can also be based on M2M Services provider policy and or M2M Device s Gateway s M2M Services Subscription which is discussed in Part Two below in more detail with reference to a 3GPP access network . These policy and subscription information may be statically configured and stored for example in the M2M SC proxy in the visited access network or dynamically communicated from the relevant service provider to the visited access network based on prior understanding between the M2M SP and visited AN operator. In this case the proxy based architecture of the visited cellular access network s connection to the home M2M SP may be similar to that shown in .

Section III Exemplary Architectural Cases that Address M2M Services Enablement for a Cellular Access Network

Each of the architectural cases identified in is now described in detail. It is observed here that all of the architectural M2M services enablement cases discussed below and shown in may be supported when particular embodiments of the present disclosure are used in a cellular AN offering M2M Services. It is further observed here that in the cases i.e. cases at blocks that assume the use of M2M SC within the cellular AN the M2M SC may be deployed either as an M2M SC Server or as an M2M SC Proxy. However in certain embodiments the same M2M SC may be deployed to function in two different ways depending on network architecture as an M2M SC server for one Service Provider SP1 and as an M2M SC proxy for another Service Provider SP2 .

In this case the common M2M SC e.g. the M2M SC in is deployed within M2M SP Network e.g. as an M2M SP server while cellular AN which may have an SLA with the M2M SP offers Transport and other services as indicated at block in . This case is the earlier referred Option 1 in i.e. the tightly coupled M2M Services architecture in which M2M SC is coupled with M2M Application s through M2M AS and deployed in the M2M Services Provider network . This option may not be flexible and may require the M2M SP network to support interfaces to interwork with every type of cellular access network in order to offer its M2M Services over that cellular access network. It may also require the M2M SP network to provide across layers M2M device and services application information back to the cellular access network in order for the cellular access network to be able to offer M2M Services enablement in a more coordinated way. If the above across layers information is not provided back to the cellular access network then the cellular access network may be required to provide a bit pipe for the M2M SP network i.e. the cellular AN may provide a transport to the SP s Service Layer above it but without knowledge of what is running over its Transport Layer . Such an option is neither flexible nor provides variety of M2M service offering choices.

In this case M2M SC is deployed as an M2M SC server not shown within cellular AN while serving M2M Service Provider which may have an SLA with the cellular AN operator need not deploy M2M SC within its network as indicated at block in . This case is the earlier referred Option 2 in i.e. the loosely coupled or distributed M2M Services architecture in which M2M SC is separate from M2M Application s and M2M AS i.e. M2M SC is not deployed in the same network with M2M application s . This architecture deployment option allows the M2M SP the flexibility not to support an interworking function e.g. the IWKF in with the cellular access network except at the application level between the M2M AS in the SP network and the M2M SC server not shown that resides inside the cellular access network. This option may allow the cellular access network operator an access to all across layers information that enables the cellular access network to offer M2M Services enablement in a more intelligent manner. This option may also allow the M2M Services Provider to offer its M2M services across multiple access networks as long as the access network supports the same M2M SL architecture e.g. ETSI compliant architecture . Furthermore this case may allow greater flexibility for billing inside the cellular access network and for providing the proper Quality of Service QoS as per the M2M application characteristics.

These cases blocks and in relate to supporting M2M Services for an M2M SP network that uses a non ETSI M2M SL architecture. Both of these cases assume AN operator s SLA with the M2M SP. Case 3.1 addresses the situation when an M2M SP supports an M2M SL architecture that is different from what is specified by ETSI e.g. the common M2M SC based ETSI preferred architecture in and the cellular AN deploys M2M SC e.g. the common M2M SC in as an M2M SC server. Whereas Case 3.2 relates to the situation when the AN does not deploy M2M SC i.e. AN does not have the M2M SC server like Case 3.1 but the SP network still supports a non ETSI M2M SL architecture.

As shown in the cellular AN conveniently referred to here as Transport Network may represent the architecture associated with Option 2 in discussed earlier . Thus the access transport network represents the second network configuration NT from which configuration deploys M2M SC in the AN here in the form of an M2M SC server in . As mentioned earlier when the common M2M SC is deployed as an M2M SC server here as the M2M SC server the D G SCs use this M2M SC server to register for M2M services. For the sake of simplicity the cellular backhaul portion is not shown in . The M2M core in is shown to include a Home Subscriber Server HSS along with other elements of a 3GPP Evolved Packet Core EPC such as for example a 3GPP Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA server a 3GPP2 AAA an eHRPD Serving Gateway HSGW where eHRPD refers to Evolved High Rate Packet Data a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF and a PDN Gateway P GW wherein PDN refers to Packet Data Network . The interconnections among these EPC elements are also illustrated in . Functionalities of these EPC elements are well known and hence these elements are not discussed in any appreciable detail herein because such detail is not relevant to the present discussion. However it is noted here that additional messaging details involving certain of these elements are provided in which are discussed later under Part Two below.

In the embodiment of the IWKF is shown co located within the M2M SC server . In other embodiments as mentioned before the IWKF may be inside the cellular AN but may not be co located within AN s M2M server. In the API based interconnection between the M2M SC server and the M2M AS in and between the IWKF and the AS in is also noted along with eHRPD LTE based radio links A C. The non ETSI based M2M SP network in is identified as Service Other or M2M Services Other or M2M SL OTH as mentioned before to distinguish it from ETSI compliant configurations in . As mentioned before relates to Case 3.2 i.e. the situation when the AN does not deploy M2M SC i.e. AN does not have the M2M SC server like Case 3.1 but the SP network still supports a non ETSI M2M SL architecture. Hence in the reference numeral from is used to identify an Access Transport Network configuration which is referred to in as first network configuration or NT that does not deploy M2M SC. Because of the absence of an M2M SC server or proxy in cellular AN in the IWKF may be used in the AN to interwork with the non ETSI compliant SP network to enable M2M service provision in the cellular AN . The rest of the network elements or entities in are the same as those shown in and hence discussion of such elements entities is not repeated herein for the sake of brevity.

Cases 3.1 and 3.2 illustrate that in certain embodiments it may not matter whether the AN has M2M SC server or not. In other words Cases 3.1 and 3.2 address the case that regardless of whether ETSI M2M SC is deployed inside cellular access network e.g. as an M2M SC server in the cellular AN may still provide M2M services enablement to an M2M service provider network that deploys an M2M SL architecture other than ETSI. Hence this option i.e. Cases 3.1 and 3.2 may be considered similar to Case 1 discussed above where the M2M services are tightly coupled and the cellular access network is being used as a bit pipe. In order for this option i.e. Cases 3.1 and 3.2 to support the possibility of allowing the M2M service provider network to feedback across layers M2M information to the cellular access network it may be necessary for the M2M services provider network to support an interworking interface e.g. the IWKF to provide the information back to the cellular access network. This may be in addition to the interworking interface not shown that is needed to allow the M2M Services Provider network to use other non M2M or non MTC cellular access network services.

This case block in represents an M2M Services Enablement architecture in which the cellular Access Network deploys M2M SC and the M2M Services Provider also deploys M2M SC. An SLA between AN operator and M2M SP is assumed. Such an architecture may include the arrangements shown in Option 1 as well as Option 2 in i.e. the cellular AN and the M2M SP network . Thus in one embodiment this Case 4 may represent the architecture shown in where the cellular access network utilizes M2M SC as an M2M SC Proxy to the M2M SC Server inside the M2M Services Provider network . This Case 4 may give greater flexibility where the cellular access network is able to offer M2M services enablement to all M2M Services Providers deployments that are inline with ETSI M2M SL Architecture. It is also possible for this Case 4 to support non ETSI M2M SL Architecture with the minimum changes possible so that the M2M SC i.e. the M2M SC proxy in the AN would also support the minimum requirements of the Non ETSI M2M SL functionalities. For example when the non ETSI M2M SP network has an M2M server deployed then the cellular AN may deploy and configure the M2M SC to function as an M2M SC proxy to this server. On the other hand even when cellular AN deploys M2M SC as an M2M SC server this AN s M2M server may have to be configured to function as a proxy for the non ETSI SP s M2M server so as to facilitate communication between these two different entities one ETSI based and the other non ETSI based.

This case block in addresses the situation when M2M Devices Gateways roam. In this case the cellular AN is a visited AN not shown that deploys M2M SC in one of the manners illustrated in the home network does not deploy M2M SC and the M2M SP may or may not deploy M2M SC. In addition to appropriate SLA with the visited AN the home network operator may also have an SLA with the M2M SP which may be a visited M2M SP or a home M2M SP or in one embodiment the home and visited SPs may have an SLA with each other. Such an arrangement is discussed under Section II hereinbefore. In summary it is noted that this case allows M2M Services to be routed via the visited cellular Access Network based on home AN s policy and M2M Device s Gateway s M2M subscription. This option may offer greater flexibility and more control which enable the home cellular access network to allow the visited cellular access network to directly i.e. without home network s intervention route some M2M services via its visited network using visited network s M2M SC which may be configured to function as a server and or proxy as mentioned before .

These cases blocks and in relate to M2M service enablement by a cellular Access network in which the AN operator has no SLA with the M2M Services Provider. For these cases in which the cellular access network operator does not have an existing SLA with the M2M Services Provider the M2M services enablement for the cellular access network becomes similar to the situation in i.e. cases 3.1 and 3.2 discussed above in which the cellular access network provides transport and other services to an M2M Services Provider that deploys a non ETSI M2M SL architecture. Hence in this option it may not matter whether the cellular access network has an M2M SC server proxy or not the cellular access network may continue to provide M2M services enablement as discussed earlier with reference to . However if SLA is established dynamically e.g. at the time of provisioning an M2M Service to an M2M communication entity between the AN operator and the SP then the cellular AN may provide M2M services enablement under one of the different cases discussed above.

In this case a cellular Access Network operator offers its own M2M Services as an M2M Services Provider. Here two sub cases may arise A When the cellular Access network deploys M2M SC as an M2M SC server within its own network block in the following can be expected i No changes for the cellular AN operator and it can use the M2M services enablement architecture as Option 2 in with M2M Services network being part of the cellular access operator network. ii The cellular AN operator already has M2M SC deployed as an M2M server in its network and could co locate IWKF within that M2M server. iii The cellular access operator can use the Access Network Subscription Identifier of an M2M communication entity to reference the M2M services subscription. B In the case when the cellular AN operator does not deploy M2M SC within its own network the following can be expected i In order to comply with ETSI M2M architecture the AN operator may need to deploy M2M SC in its network anyway to be able to provide its own M2M services to its own subscribers. ii If the AN operator still chooses not to deploy M2M SC then the AN operator may face scalability problems in order to support different M2M services in an ETSI compliant manner.

Section IV Exemplary Embodiments of M2M Services Enablement by Cellular Access Network as Per Teachings of the Present Disclosure

The following provides a summary of exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure which allows greater flexibility in deploying M2M services enablement by a cellular AN or any other access network as long as the access network supports the ETSI M2M SL Architecture or any architecture that is similar in concepts to the ETSI architecture discussed hereinbefore under different sections and illustrated as different cases in in this Part One.

In this embodiment M2M SC e.g. the common M2M SC shown in is deployed and used inside the cellular AN as an M2M SC Proxy in the signaling path between the G D SC and an M2M SC server inside the M2M SP network as illustrated in thereby optimizing M2M services enablement architecture for the cellular AN. In this embodiment the M2M SC supports the M2M SC server functionality and is also used as a proxy to the M2M SC server that resides inside the M2M Services Provider network. The M2M SC Proxy may have access to all the M2M Devices and or Gateways Across Layers information that is used to enforce M2M Services enablement in the cellular AN and ensure proper synchronization between the M2M SP network and the cellular access network e.g. as to QoS enforcement M2M Device Gateway reachability proper billing etc. . The use of M2M SC as a proxy may reduce M2M signaling and interworking traffic between the M2M SP network and the cellular AN by providing the cellular AN easy access to the M2M device and or gateway across layers information. In this embodiment the M2M SP network can communicate with the cellular access network over the API interface between the M2M SC Server and the M2M SC Proxy inside the M2M cellular access network. This interface may hide the cellular access network specific services e.g. RAN support switching routing billing etc. from the M2M SP network.

In this embodiment M2M SC Proxy is used to facilitate routing of some M2M Services traffic through the visited access network when the M2M D G roams into a cellular access network i.e. the visited network other than its home access network as discussed under Section II hereinbefore . In this embodiment the home cellular access network may use an M2M SC server in the M2M SP network which may be a home M2M SP or a visited M2M SP . When the M2M Device and or Gateway roams into a visited cellular access network which deploys and uses M2M SC Proxy the home cellular access network may be able to indicate to the visited cellular access network that a specific M2M Services can be routed directly by the visited network i.e. without home network s intervention to the M2M SP network. This indication from the home cellular access network to the visited cellular access network may be based on the home cellular access network policy and or the M2M Access Transport Subscription of the M2M device gateway . It also could be based on the M2M Services Provider network policy and or M2M Services subscription of the M2M device gateway . Some of the M2M services may be routed via the visited cellular access network to the visited M2M SP network based on an SLA agreement between home and visited M2M Services Providers.

This embodiment is from the perspective of an M2M SP in the context of like embodiment 1 discussed above . In this embodiment the M2M SP network uses an M2M SC Proxy inside the cellular AN to provide the cellular AN with a direct access to SP s M2M Device and or Gateway A Layers information e.g. an A layers M2M Device Identifier that is used to identify an M2M device over the interface between the AN operator and M2M SP for M2M services enablement purposes e.g. routing device discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. . The M2M SC server inside the M2M SP network may interwork with the M2M SC Proxy inside the cellular access network at the application level. Hence the M2M SP network may not need to support the needed interworking functionality to the cellular access network.

This embodiment is from the perspective of a cellular AN operator in the context of like embodiment 1 discussed above . An M2M SC proxy is used inside the cellular Access Network to enable M2M services enablement and communication with an M2M SP network that deploys and uses an M2M SC Server. In this embodiment the M2M SC proxy inside the cellular AN is used to provide the cellular access network with all needed across layers information for the M2M Device and or Gateway that are being serviced by the M2M Services Provider network which deploys and uses an M2M SC server.

This embodiment relates to an M2M SP network that uses a non ETSI compliant M2M SL architecture e.g. similar to configurations in and also uses an interworking interface to feed the M2M Device and or Gateway Across Layers Information back to the cellular access network for M2M services enablement purposes such as for example routing device discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. . In this embodiment the M2M SP network is referred to as M2M Services Other . Here the M2M SP network may run its M2M services traffic signaling and data on the top of the transport layer i.e. cellular access network. In this case the M2M SP network may support an interworking interface to the cellular access network to feed back the Across Layers information of M2M Devices and or Gateways that are registered with the SP and may also use the cellular access network transport to allow the cellular access network to enforce the enablement of M2M services architecture for purposes such as for example routing device discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. . The interworking interface between the M2M SP network and the cellular access network could be through communications with the M2M SC Server Proxy inside the cellular access network. This means that the M2M SC Server Proxy in the cellular AN may support interworking e.g. through the IWKF having functionality that is compatible with the M2M SL architecture that is supported by the M2M Services Provider network.

In this embodiment like Case 1 in the M2M SP network uses an M2M SC Server and an interworking interface to feed the M2M Device and or Gateway Across Layers Information back to the cellular access network for M2M services enablement purposes e.g. routing discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. . In this embodiment the cellular AN does not deploy nor use M2M SC Server Proxy while the M2M SP network deploys and uses an M2M SC Server. In this case the M2M SP network supports and uses an interworking interface with the cellular AN to feedback all the needed Across Layers information to the cellular access network. This means that when an M2M application on an M2M Device and or Gateway registers with the M2M SP network s M2M SC Server the M2M SC Server may access and retrieve the A Layers information that are related to the M2M Devices and or Gateway and stored e.g. on the device gateway through M2M SL signaling between the device gateway and the M2M server and may consequently send this information to the cellular AN over the interworking interface.

In this embodiment the M2M SP which does not have an existing SLA with the cellular AN operator as discussed earlier for example in the context of Cases 6.1 and 6.2 in uses an interworking interface to feed the M2M Device and or Gateway Across Layers information back to the cellular access network for M2M services enablement purposes e.g. routing discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. . In this embodiment the M2M SP network does not have an existing SLA with the cellular AN operator but M2M SP supports ETSI M2M SL architecture. In this embodiment regardless of the M2M SC deployment in the cellular access network and the M2M SP network the interworking situation may be similar to that in the embodiments 5 and 6 discussed above where the M2M SP network may need to provide the cellular AN with the needed Across Layers information for all the registered M2M devices and or gateways. In case the M2M SP network is able to establish a dynamic SLA with the cellular access network then the M2M services enablement architecture may follow any of the other cases discussed above or below depending on the deployment of the M2M SC Server Proxy.

In this embodiment M2M SP network which does not have an existing SLA with the cellular AN but supports an ETSI M2M SL architecture uses a dynamically established SLA e.g. at the time of facilitating M2M communication for an M2M communication entity to enable an M2M SC server inside the cellular AN to have access to SP based A Layers information of M2M Devices and or Gateways which are associated registered with the M2M SP for purpose of M2M services enablement e.g. routing discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. over the cellular AN. The M2M SP network is allowed and able to establish a dynamic SLA with the cellular access network. At this point this embodiment may be similar to Case 2 shown in at block .

In this embodiment M2M SP network which does not have an existing SLA with the cellular AN but supports an ETSI M2M SL architecture uses a dynamically established SLA to enable an M2M SC proxy inside the cellular AN to have access to SP based A Layers information of M2M Devices and or Gateways which are associated registered with the M2M SP for purpose of M2M services enablement e.g. routing discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. over the cellular AN. The M2M SP network is allowed and able to establish a dynamic SLA with the cellular access network. In this embodiment the M2M SP network based on the dynamically established SLA with the cellular AN uses the communication between the M2M SC Server inside its network and the M2M SC proxy in the cellular access network to provide the cellular access network an access to the needed Across Layers information. At this point this embodiment may be similar to embodiment 3 discussed above.

In this embodiment the M2M SP network has a non ETSI compliant M2M SL architecture and uses an M2M SC proxy inside the cellular AN to route services signaling SL signaling from to M2M Device and or Gateway so as to allow the cellular AN to have access to the M2M Device and or Gateway A Layers information for M2M services enablement purposes e.g. routing discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. . In this embodiment the M2M SP network does not support ETSI M2M SL architecture but has an SLA with the cellular AN operator for the M2M SP network s M2M SL to interwork with the ETSI M2M SC proxy inside the cellular AN. In this embodiment the M2M SP network is allowed to establish the SLA dynamically if means are available. In this embodiment the M2M SP network based on the established SLA with the cellular AN may use the communication between its M2M SL and the cellular AN s M2M SC proxy to provide the cellular AN with an access to all Across Layers information that are needed for all of the registered M2M Devices and or Gateways for this M2M SP so as to enable M2M Services over this cellular AN. When the M2M SP s non ETSI M2M SL acts as or similar to an M2M SC server this embodiment may be considered similar to embodiment 3 discussed above.

In this embodiment M2M Services for a roaming M2M Device and or Gateway is routed through the visited cellular AN directly to the relevant M2M SP Network e.g. a home M2M SP network based on home cellular AN operator policy and or M2M Access Transport subscription of the roaming M2M device gateway . Similar to Case 5 block in in this embodiment the M2M SP network Home SP may support ETSI M2M SL architecture with an M2M server inside its network and may have an SLA with the visited cellular AN operator to enable the home M2M SP network to use the M2M SC proxy deployed inside the visited cellular access network. In addition the M2M SP network Home SP may have an SLA with the visited M2M SP network Visited SP . Such an SLA may support usage of another M2M SC server inside the visited SP network. In addition the cellular access network operator i.e. the Home Access Operator AO may have a roaming SLA with the visited cellular access network operator Visited AO . This roaming SLA may allow the Home AO M2M Devices and or Gateways to roam into the Visited AO network. Like Case 5 in in this embodiment the home cellular AN may not deploy M2M SC. When an M2M Device and or Gateway that subscribes to M2M services offered by the Home SP roams into the Visited AO network the Visited AO cellular access network will have the chance to route some of the M2M services directly to the Home SP i.e. without going through the home AO network using Home SP s M2M SC as an M2M SC Server. On the other hand the Visited AO cellular access network will have the chance to route some M2M services to the Visited SP network using visited AN s M2M SC as an M2M SC Proxy to the M2M SC Server inside the visited M2M Services provider Visited SP . The decision of routing the M2M Device and or Gateway services directly from the visited cellular access network to the M2M Services Provider Home SP may be based on the Home AO policy and or the M2M Access Transport subscription of an M2M device gateway and or the M2M Services Provider Home SP policy and or the M2M Services subscription of an M2M device gateway . The decision of routing the M2M Device and or Gateway services directly from the visited cellular access network to the corresponding M2M SP Visited SP may be based on the M2M Services Provider Home SP policy and or the M2M Services subscription. The flexibility of routing the M2M Services via the visited cellular AN provides greater flexibility and routing optimization.

In this embodiment M2M Services for a roaming M2M Device and or Gateway are routed through the visited cellular access network directly to its M2M SP network i.e. visited SP based on the roaming device s gateway s home M2M SP network policy and or the M2M Service subscription. This embodiment is covered in embodiment 11 discussed above. However it is additionally noted here that this embodiment gives the flexibility of offering M2M services to M2M Devices and or M2M Gateways via the closest geographically possible M2M Services Provider e.g. the visited SP that has an SLA with the device s gateway s home M2M Services Provider Home SP .

In this embodiment the cellular AN uses an M2M SC proxy for the M2M SC Server inside the M2M SP network that may be within the cellular AN i.e. a part of the cellular AN to have a direct access to the M2M Device and or Gateway Across Layers Information for M2M services enablement purposes e.g. routing discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. . This embodiment covers the use of M2M SC Proxy by the cellular access network which may also include the M2M SP network. Other than that this embodiment is similar to embodiment 4 discussed above.

In this embodiment cellular AN uses an M2M SC proxy as an M2M SC server for M2M services enablement purposes e.g. routing discovery and reachability QoS billing etc. to serve its own M2M Devices and or Gateways. This embodiment covers the use of M2M SC proxy as an M2M server in the case when the cellular access network operator offers its own M2M Services similar to Case 7 shown at block in . The cellular AN operator may use the device s gateway s M2M Access Subscription Identifier to reference the device s gateway s M2M Services Subscription. Otherwise this embodiment may be similar to embodiment 4 above when the M2M SP network is considered part of the cellular access operator network.

In this embodiment any cellular wireless Access Network not necessarily 3GPP may use the M2M services enablement architecture according to the present disclosure e.g. the generic architecture shown in to support and use an ETSI SL compliant architecture to provide transport and other services to an M2M SP network. Although this disclosure is primarily described in the context of using a cellular access network as an access for the M2M services enablement architecture all aspects of the present disclosure discussed herein are equally applicable to any other IP based access network e.g. a BroadBand Forum BBF access network that supports and uses ETSI M2M SL architecture.

In this embodiment the teachings of the present disclosure may be applied to any M2M SL architecture that uses the concept of the separation distribution of the common M2M Services Capabilities e.g. the M2M SC in and the M2M Application s Server and or applies the earlier mentioned principles of ETSI M2M TC. Although this disclosure is based on ETSI M2M SL architecture and various ETSI compliant architectures are used throughout the discussion herein this disclosure is equally applicable to any M2M SL architecture that uses the basic principles similar to those of ETSI M2M TC discussed earlier . In other words any M2M SL architecture that is mainly comprised of and assumes the separation of the common M2M SC from the M2M AS and that is inline with the basic principles of ETSI M2M TC may be configured to follow the same M2M services enablement architectures as discussed herein.

This part provides examples of signaling and other implementation details for the M2M services enablement architecture of Part One in the context of a 3GPP access network. This part addresses different options for the M2M services enablement architecture e.g. the architecture in that are possible when using an M2M SL architecture as per ETSI TS 102.69. As mentioned this part addresses a specific exemplary situation when the cellular access network in is a 3GPP cellular AN or other network that uses a 3GPP EPC such as for example the EPC shown in or another CN having similar attributes. The discussion below in Sections I III proceeds with a brief overview of certain assumptions and pre requisites for the M2M services enablement solution for a 3GPP access according to particular embodiments of the present disclosure. Thereafter the present disclosure defines a solution referred to herein as the M2M Services Enablement Solution MSES that addresses the following two main aspects A First Service Initial Attach of an M2M entity with the entity s per choice M2M Service Provider SP and B consequent Regular Attach of the M2M entity with the same M2M SP used during the First Service Initial Attach. In the discussion below it is assumed that the M2M Access Device e.g. the M2M Access Device in discussed below has an M2M Access Subscription with the 3GPP Access Operator AO . This M2M Access Subscription may have some default configuration and can be updated automatically as per the Service Initial Attach procedure discussed below.

In one embodiment the M2M entity may be configured in hardware via software or both to implement M2M services enablement as per teachings of the present disclosure. For example when existing hardware architecture of the M2M entity cannot be modified the functionality desired of the entity may be obtained through suitable programming of the processor . The execution of the program code by the processor may cause the processor to perform as needed to support the M2M services enablement solution as per the teachings of the present disclosure. In one embodiment the logical devices may be implemented in software and may be configured according to the teachings of the present disclosure. Thus in the discussion below although the M2M entity may be referred to as performing accomplishing or carrying out or similar such other terms a function or process or method step it is evident to one skilled in the art that such performance may be technically accomplished in hardware and or software as desired. The AN operator and or an M2M SP or a third party e.g. manufacturer or supplier of the M2M entity may suitably configure the M2M entity e.g. through hardware and or software based configuration of the processor as per the particular requirements discussed below.

As mentioned the processor may be in communication with the memory to process retrieve and store relevant information for the M2M entity e.g. entity specific A Layers parameters such as A Layers M2M D G Identifier program code of an M2M application etc. . The processor may include by way of example a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC and or a state machine. The processor may employ distributed processing in certain embodiments. Some or all of the functionalities described herein e.g. with reference to as being provided by an M2M entity e.g. the M2M entity may be provided by the processor executing instructions stored on a data storage medium or a computer readable data storage medium such as the memory shown in . Examples of computer readable storage media include a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a digital register a cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks magnetic tapes and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and Digital Versatile Disks DVDs . In certain embodiments the memory may employ distributed data storage with without redundancy.

For 3GPP accesses e.g. E UTRAN and 3GPP2 accesses e.g. CDMA2000 based eHRPD the M2M Access Subscription Identifier which may be stored in the M2M Device Gateway using for example the memory shown in can be an M2M entity s International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and or Network Access Identifier NAI or similar other identifier. As is known the IMSI is a unique identification associated with a mobile unit operating in GSM CDMA EVDO or other mobile networks. The IMSI number may be stored inside the mobile unit itself e.g. in a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card in case of a mobile phone or UE . The NAI is another way of identifying a user who requests access to a network e.g. a wireless IP network or a 3GPP EPC core . The NAI thus represents the user identity submitted by the client device e.g. the M2M entity in during network access authentication. The M2M Access Subscription of an M2M entity may be stored in the 3GPP network and on the M2M entity as well in certain embodiment and may identify whether the entity s M2M Access Device is being used for or configured authorized for M2M services only for M2M and regular Internet access for regular Internet access only or for any other combination. If the 3GPP 3GPP2 network identifies that the Access Subscription is for providing access and transport connection for the M2M entity one embodiment of the present disclosure assumes that the following parameters are configured as part of the entity s Access Subscription profile e.g. in the access network in addition to other already existing standard parameters 

 i Access Point Name APN of default Access Network M2M Network Services Capabilities N SC . An N SC APN identifies the N SC and possible connectivity towards it. Thus the default AN M2M N SC APN may identify the 3GPP access network s default M2M SC that can be used for the Service Initial Attach discussed later and for provisioning of the M2M entity according to its per choice M2M SP. Because of frequent discussions of network based SC and device gateway based SC under this Part Two the term N SC is used to distinguish a network based SC whether in the AN and or in the SP network from an entity specific SC such as D G SC in . In the context of the generic architecture in such N SC is the network deployed version of the common M2M SC .

 ii Whether this Access Subscription is for an M2M Device or M2M Gateway i.e. whether the M2M entity is a device including for example an M2M communication capable UE as mentioned earlier or a gateway.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure the following is a list of pre defined assumptions and pre requisites for the M2M Service Device e.g. the service device in prior to its First Service Initial Attach discussed later below to its per choice M2M Services Provider.

 i It is assumed that the M2M Service Device is pre provisioned e.g. by the access network operator in which the corresponding M2M entity is a subscriber M2M entity s manufacturer or other third party configuring the M2M entity for M2M communications with a D G SC that conforms with ETSI M2M SL.

 ii It is assumed that the M2M Service Device is pre provisioned associated with at least one M2M application e.g. the M2M application s in or such an application can be downloaded immediately after service device s Initial Attach discussed later below .

 iii It is assumed that the M2M Service Device is pre provisioned with its per choice M2M Service Provider information e.g. SP name or identity and associated M2M Service Subscription Identifier. In one embodiment the M2M Service Subscription Identifier could be temporary e.g. a contract number .

 iv The M2M Service Device may be pre provisioned with the A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier. This could be done by the M2M Service Provider alone through coordination between the M2M Service Provider and the access network operator and or by some other entity e.g. M2M device gateway manufacturer that is trusted by the M2M Service Provider and or the Access Network Operator.

 v In one embodiment the M2M Service Device D G SC may be pre provisioned with N SC information of M2M entity s per choice M2M Service Provider and its reachability e.g. APN of such SP N SC . However this may not be required for the M2M services enablement solution discussed herein.

 vi It is assumed that the M2M Service Device D G SC may dynamically and mutually authenticate with the 3GPP Access Network default M2M N SC. The mutual authentication with the 3GPP access network default N SC may enable the D G SC to provide its Service Provider reachability information to the access network default N SC. The reachability information may include only public information that reflects the identity of the Service Provider.

It is noted here that the discussion of M2M Service Device pre provisioning is primarily relative to the Service Initial Attach procedure discussed below. In that regard it is assumed that the M2M Service Device is pre provisioned with an M2M Service Subscription Identifier that is unique within the Service Provider network. As mentioned before in one embodiment such M2M Service Subscription Identifier may be temporary e.g. a Service Provider contract number that can be used during initial attach to configure the M2M Service Device with its permanent M2M Service Subscription Identifier and the A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier . It is further assumed that the M2M Service Device is pre provisioned or is dynamically able to retrieve e.g. from a corresponding M2M Service Provider or be provisioned with security credentials that can be used to secure communication with the M2M Service Provider and at the same time mutually authenticate with the M2M Service Provider network.

Some of the basic aspects of the M2M services enablement solution in the context of a 3GPP AN as an example according to particular embodiments of the present disclosure are as follows. A detailed discussion of the device attachment procedure is provided later below. 

 i Force the M2M entity s device gateway first attach to the Access Network to be directed to the Access Network default M2M N SC.

 ii M2M entity s Service Device registers with the Access Network default N SC based on the M2M entity s Service Subscription and the network architecture of the M2M entity s per choice Services Provider.

 iii Provision the M2M entity as discussed in more detail for example in Section V below and consequently inform the Access Network with the details of the entity specific A Layers parameters including for example the A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier.

 iv Update the M2M entity s Access Subscription e.g. as part of the entity s Access Subscription profile in the access network with the regular M2M N SC APN that is based on the M2M entity s per choice M2M Services Provider. This may include a possible update to the corresponding Access Subscription stored on the M2M entity.

 v Future M2M Regular Attaches to the M2M entity s per choice M2M SP may be directed to the new regular M2M N SC APN which directs the M2M entity to the respective M2M N SC inside the Access Network or the Services Provider network.

This section provides technical details of different aspects of the 3GPP M2M services enablement solution in the context of how an M2M entity s Service First Initial Attach and the consequent Regular Attach are performed in particular embodiments of the present disclosure. The subsection V A below details the Initial Attach aspect whereas the subsection V B below discusses the Regular Attach aspect. It is noted here that the terms Service First Initial Attach First SP Network Initial Attach Initial Attach First Initial Attach or terms having similar import as evident from their context of discussion are used interchangeably herein to refer to a process when a new M2M entity registers with the M2M SP network for the first time e.g. when powered up for the first time . Generally such Initial Attach procedure may be performed only once during the lifetime of the M2M entity. In other words once the M2M entity successfully concludes its First Initial Attach subsequent network attachment requests from the M2M entity may be processed using a Regular Attach procedure different embodiments of which are discussed below.

As with other figures no further details of previously discussed network elements components are repeated herein for the sake of brevity. It is noted however that in the configuration in the 3GPP AN deploys the common M2M SC as a default M2M N SC during Initial Attach and as a regular M2M N SC during Regular Attach but the deployment of the common M2M SC in the M2M SP network may be optional as shown by the dotted block based on a specific M2M services enablement architecture configuration from different configurations shown in supported by the M2M SP. Thus depending on whether the M2M SP deploys the M2M SC in its network the M2M SP network may be referred to using reference numerals with M2M SC or without M2M SC in the context of different SP network configurations shown in . It is observed here that the terms default M2M N SC and regular M2M N SC do not imply existence of different N SCs within the AN rather the same M2M SC e.g. the common M2M SC in may be deployed in the AN with different functionalities as a default M2M N SC every time an M2M entity e.g. the M2M entity in attempts an Initial Attachment e.g. upon power up and as a regular M2M N SC for subsequent Regular Attaches. Thus a regular M2M N SC may be considered as a subset of the default M2M N SC. The default M2M N SC may be used as a default to provide default functionalities for all Initial Attach requests and may have additional functionalities than the regular M2M N SC to be able to handle Initial Attachment for all M2M entities. On the other hand the regular M2M N SC functionality may be specific to a given M2M entity and may be triggered or activated to serve the M2M entity s per choice M2M Service Provider during Regular Attach. However in one embodiment the default M2M N SC functionality and the regular M2M N SC functionality may be the same for an M2M entity. Furthermore in one embodiment where the M2M SC is deployed in both the networks i.e. in the 3GPP AN e.g. as an M2M SC proxy as well as in the M2M SP network e.g. as an M2M SC server the overall architectural configuration in may be similar to that shown in .

The following is an exemplary sequence of events detailing how an M2M entity first attaches referred to here as Initial Attach or First Initial Attach as mentioned earlier to the M2M SP network or according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. In other embodiments the sequence of steps below may be performed in a different order.

 1 As mentioned in Section I under this Part Two the M2M Access Device e.g. the M2M Access Device in may be preconfigured with an Access Network Subscription Identifier which may identify an M2M Access Subscription of the corresponding M2M entity .

 2 The M2M Access Subscription Identifier may point to the M2M entity s Access Subscription which may contain the APN of the AN based default M2M N SC as also mentioned in Section I Part Two above. The M2M Access Device may be pre configured with this APN of the default AN N SC or may not be pre configured with any such APN.

 3 Upon receiving the M2M entity s request which may be sent using entity s M2M access device for the Service First Initial Attach the 3GPP AN may use the Access Network default M2M N SC APN to establish a connection to the Access Network default M2M N SC Platform . In other words regardless of the APN the M2M entity may provide during its first Service Attach attempt the 3GPP AN may override this entity supplied APN with the AN default M2M N SC APN that is configured as part of the M2M entity s M2M Access Subscription stored in the 3GPP AN . In one embodiment the 3GPP AN may recognize the First Initial Attach when the M2M entity s AN based M2M Access Subscription does not contain any APN other than the Access Network default M2M N SC APN. 

 4 When the M2M entity connects to the Access Network default M2M N SC e.g. using entity s M2M access device it may present e.g. using entity s M2M service device the M2M Services Subscription Identifier mentioned in Sections II and III above under this Part Two to the 3GPP AN . This Services Subscription Identifier may help the AN default M2M N SC to identify the M2M entity s per choice M2M Services Provider and to also consequently identify based on the Service Level Agreement SLA the M2M services enablement architecture that is supported by the entity selected M2M SP network with respect to the common M2M N SC or M2M SC in e.g. whether SP network implements an ETSI compliant or non compliant M2M services enablement architecture whether the SP network also deploys its M2M N SC etc. .

 5 The Access Network default M2M N SC may execute the initial M2M SL Registration for the M2M entity based on the M2P SP s respective M2M services enablement architecture and may communicate with the M2M SP N SC if available for the following a The configuration and allocation of the A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier. b The configuration allocation and registration of the D G SC Identifier. c The identification of the possible M2M Application Identifiers that are supported on the M2M Service Device that is using this M2M Access Device which is currently communicating with the 3GPP AN . d All other A Layers required parameters. It is noted here that although an M2M D G s External Identifier is used herein as an example of an A Layers parameter the present disclosure contemplates usage of other A Layers parameters if needed that may be specified in future by 3GPP 3GPP2 or other cellular specifications. 

In the embodiment in which the M2M SP does not deploy M2M SP N SC e.g. the embodiment shown in the AN default M2M N SC may still obtain the above mentioned information as discussed below under Case 1 in Section VI.

 6 After the above step 5 or in parallel thereto the AN default M2M N SC may update the M2M Access Device Subscription i.e. M2M Access Subscription of the M2M Access Device in the M2M entity in the home access network i.e. the 3GPP AN . This entity specific M2M Access Subscription may reside in for example a Home Subscriber Server HSS not shown in but shown in and may be updated there with the following information a The A Layers M2M D G Identifier. b The M2M N SC APN for SL signaling and data to the respective M2M N SC . This APN may refer to the AN regular M2M N SC e.g. the M2M N SC in that is associated with or that specifically serves the M2M entity s per choice M2M SP and that is to be used during Regular Attach described below . c Other relevant and necessary information to support M2M communications from the M2M entity .

This step 6 also may include dynamic update by the AN default M2M N SC of the M2M Access Subscription on the M2M entity with the same information.

 7 In addition the AN default M2M N SC may communicate to the Subscriber Profile Repository SPR not shown in the AN s HSS to update the M2M Access Policy Subscription also referred to as M2M Access Subscription with the respective QoS that are required to support the M2M Services applications hosted by the M2M Service Device . Similarly the M2M SP network also may be updated with similar information e.g. the M2M SP N SC may be updated if deployed .

After the First Service Initial Attach is performed as discussed under subsection V A above and the M2M entity is provisioned with all needed parameters related to M2M Access Subscription A Layers parameters and all other parameters the M2M entity may reboot or re attach to its per choice SP network for all the provisioning changes to take place. This means in one embodiment the M2M entity may perform a Regular Attach as part of its reboot or re attachment as given below.

The following is an exemplary sequence of events detailing how an M2M entity accomplishes Regular Attach to its per choice M2M SP network here the SP network in according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. In other embodiments the sequence of steps below may be performed in a different order.

 1 As part of the Regular Attach the M2M Access Device e.g. the M2M access device in the M2M entity in may use the N SC APN i.e. the APN of the AN based regular M2M N SC which may function as an AN M2M N SC server in one embodiment that was provisioned e.g. as part of update of M2M Access Subscription residing on the M2M entity during the Service First Initial Attach. However if the M2M entity is somehow not configured with this APN of the AN regular M2M N SC its M2M Access Device may use the NULL APN. The M2M access device may follow all the details of the respective 3GPP protocol to establish a 3GPP Packet Data Network PDN connection to the M2M N SC .

 2 The M2M entity e.g. through its M2M Access Device may use the M2M SL signaling to register with the AN based M2M N SC that serves the M2M entity selected SP . The 3GPP AN may then direct future communications including future requests for Regular Attaches from the M2M entity to the APN of this regular M2M N SC thereby establishing regular attachment of the M2M entity with the M2M entity s per choice SP . In the SL signaling APN may refer to the AN based M2M N SC . Hence SL signaling from an M2M entity not specifically shown in in the M2M device domain to the AN based M2M N SC is indicated by the bi directional dotted arrow and block . On the other hand SL data APN may refer to the SP based AS . Hence in subsequent SL data transfer between the M2M entity and its per choice M2M SP with which the M2M entity is now attached through the AN based regular M2M N SC is illustrated using the bi directional arrow and block .

Section VI below describes how different M2M services enablement architecture options work as per various embodiments of the present disclosure.

 3 During M2M entity s registration with the assigned N SC i.e. the M2M N SC as per the N SC APN the M2M entity may provide e.g. through its M2M access device its A Layers M2M D G Identifier which may be used across the Service and Transport layers to identify the M2M entity and its reachability at all times as long as the M2M D G SC is registered with the AN regular M2M N SC . It is observed here that in one embodiment if an M2M entity is not registered with the AN it may not be reachable by the M2M SP network for M2M services.

 4 In one embodiment as a result of the Initial Attach procedure mentioned before the AN regular M2M N SC may have access to the A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier and may also have mapping of this A Layers M2M D G Identifier to one or more of the following parameters that are related to the M2M Access Device e.g. access device in and or M2M Service Device e.g. service device in 

 b M2M Device Gateway Transport Address which may be for example an Internet Protocol IP version 6 IPv6 address an IPv6 Network Prefix an IPv4 address an IPv4 address along with a port number etc. 

 c M2M Device Gateway Circuit Switched CS Transport Address such as for example a Mobile Subscriber ISDN number MSISDN where ISDN refers to Integrated Services Digital Network a Mobile Directory Number MDN etc. This may be possible if the M2M Device Gateway supports CS access via Short Message Service SMS and

 d Any other relevant parameter selected needed by the 3GPP AN operator for 3GPP M2M services enablement solution according to particular embodiments of the present disclosure.

It is noted here that discussion in Section V including sub sections V A and V B above under this Part Two assumes that the M2M N SC belongs to the 3GPP AN operator and performs functionality of the M2M N SC server and or proxy. For example in the embodiment of the default M2M N SC may function as an M2M N SC proxy when the M2M SP also deploys M2M N SC as M2M N SC server . On the other hand in the embodiment of the AN regular M2M N SC may function as an N SC server. As mentioned earlier with reference to when an M2M SC is deployed within the 3GPP AN the M2M SC may be deployed either as an M2M N SC server or as an M2M N SC proxy or both as an M2M N SC server for one Service Provider and as an M2M N SC proxy for another Service Provider . Thus in the discussion in Section V the 3GPP AN may have a dynamic access to all A Layers information of the registered M2M service device e.g. the service device of the M2M entity in which uses corresponding M2M access device e.g. the access device in that utilizes an Access Subscription of the M2M entity that belongs to the 3GPP AN operator. However as discussed under Part One above there are several architectural options that use different deployments of the M2M N SC and that are based on whether there is an SLA between the 3GPP AN operator and the per choice M2M SP. From these different deployment options this Section VI relates to those M2M services enablement architecture options that use 3GPP Access Network with an assumption that an SLA exists between the 3GPP AN operator and the M2M Services Provider. Each of the architectural cases identified in is now described in detail.

In this case block SLA exists between the 3GPP AN operator and M2M entity s per choice M2M SP an M2M N SC server is deployed inside the 3GPP AN and the M2M SP deploys the M2M AS. Architecturally this case may be similar to the configuration in .

 A Service First Initial Attach In this case during M2M entity s Initial Attach the AN based M2M N SC server which may function as AN default M2M N SC discussed with reference to may communicate with the M2M SP e.g. the M2M SP in using the M2M SL API to communicate all information related to A Layers M2M D G Identifier other information that may be needed by the M2M SP e.g. M2M Service Subscription Identifier and other information that may relate to the M2M Service Device in the M2M entity such as for example M2M D G SC Identifier and whether it needs to be dynamically configured etc. Overall the Initial Attach mechanism in this Case 1 is very similar to the details and scenario described under sub section V A above in this Part Two and hence such details are not repeated here for the sake of brevity.

 B Consequent Regular Attach The Regular Attach under this Case 1 may be exactly like what is described in sub section V B above under this Part Two and hence such details are not repeated here for the sake of brevity.

In this case block SLA exists between the 3GPP AN operator and M2M entity s per choice M2M SP an M2M N SC server is deployed inside the M2M SP e.g. the M2M N SC in deployed as an N SC server and the 3GPP AN deploys M2M N SC proxy e.g. the default M2M N SC in functioning as N SC proxy . Architecturally this case may be similar to the configuration in .

 A Service First Initial Attach Overall the Initial Attach mechanism in this case is very similar to the details and scenario described under sub section V A above and hence only a brief discussion of certain additional aspects is given here. In this case the 3GPP AN default M2M N SC may be the same as the default M2M N SC in but it may perform the functionality of an M2M N SC proxy within the 3GPP AN . During M2M entity s Initial Attach the AN based M2M N SC proxy may communicate with the M2M SP N SC server e.g. the M2M N SC server in using the M2M SL API to communicate all SL signaling messages while being able to receive or intercept all the A Layers M2M Device Gateway information as described under sub section V A above. After Initial registration during Service First Initial Attach the M2M Access Device Subscription may be updated with the M2M N SC APN which in this case may reference the M2M SP s M2M N SC as the N SC server. In one embodiment it also may be possible to reference the N SC proxy in the 3GPP Access Network which proxies signaling information to the M2M N SC server in the SP network.

 B Consequent Regular Attach The Regular Attach under this Case 2 may be exactly like what is described in sub section V B above except that the M2M N SC inside the 3GPP AN now performs as an M2M N SC proxy. In other words the M2M N SC proxy inside the 3GPP AN in this case performs the same functionality as those of the M2M N SC server discussed under sub section V B above.

Case 3 In this case block SLA exists between the 3GPP AN operator and M2M entity s per choice M2M SP and an M2M N SC server is deployed inside the M2M SP e.g. the M2M N SC in deployed as an N SC server but the 3GPP AN M2M N SC proxy may not be allowed i.e. the M2M SP N SC may not have access to or authorization to use the proxy functionality that may be supported for example by the AN default M2M N SC . Architecturally this case may be similar to Option 1 discussed earlier with reference to .

 A Service First Initial Attach After the AN default M2M N SC identifies that the M2M SP SLA indicates that the SP network allows only an M2M N SC server inside the SP network but does not allow any M2M N SC proxy inside the 3GPP Access Network i.e. the AN default M2M N SC may not function as a proxy like in Case 2 discussed above the AN default M2M N SC may perform one of the following two options 

 i Option 1 In this option the AN default M2M N SC may provide the M2M entity s D G SC e.g. the entity specific M2M SC shown in with the Services Provider N SC identity and or reachability information and instruct the D G SC that it must update the Access Network default M2M N SC with the needed across layers information after it successfully completes its initial registration with its SP N SC which is deployed as an N SC server as mentioned above . Thus instead of obtaining such A Layers parameters and other information from the M2M SP N SC as discussed under sub section V A above in this option the AN default M2M N SC may obtain relevant information from the D G SC.

After the M2M entity completes the procedure of initial attach registration the D G SC may perform an SL initial registration update with the Access Network default M2M N SC. In this step the D G SC may provide the needed A Layers information to the Access Network default M2M N SC to perform M2M Access Subscription Update MASU . This MASU may include the AN default M2M N SC updating for example the home 3GPP AN with the AN regular M2M N SC APN that points to the proper P GW which will serve the M2M signaling and data traffic between this M2M entity and its M2M Service Provider.

After successfully performing the M2M Access Subscription Update the Access Network default M2M N SC may indicate success to the D G SC and update the M2M Device Gateway Access Subscription on the M2M Device Gateway if possible as mentioned in sub section V A above .

 ii Option 2 In this option the Access Network default M2M N SC may provide the M2M entity s D G SC with the Services Provider N SC identity and or reachability information as in Option 1 above under this Case 3 and may also provide an indication for the SP N SC which is deployed as an N SC server as mentioned above to update Access Network default N SC with the needed A Layers information after the completion of the steps of the Service first Initial Registration but before the SP N SC sends Initial Registration Success to the D G SC.

In one embodiment the SP N SC may initiate a session to update the 3GPP Access Network default M2M N SC with the needed information based on the M2M entity s Service Device s Service First Initial Attach.

The Access Network default M2M N SC may then perform the MASU procedure discussed above. After successfully performing the MASU procedure the Access Network default M2M N SC may indicate success to the SP N SC and not to the D G SC as under Option 1 discussed above . Then the SP N SC may indicate Initial Registration success to the corresponding D G SC.

 B Consequent Regular Attach The Regular Attach procedure under this Case 3 may be exactly like what is described under sub section V B above except that the M2M N SC Server is the N SC inside the SP network and the M2M N SC inside the 3GPP Access Network if present is not allowed i.e. the M2M SP N SC may not have access to or authorization to use the proxy functionality in the AN as mentioned before .

Here the APN that is provisioned or updated based on for example the MASU procedure during Service First Initial Attach may point to the P GW that is associated with the SP network. Hence when the PDN connection is established the P GW may receive the M2M Device Gateway Access Subscription profile that includes the A Layers M2M D G Identifier and other parameters that are needed for the A Layers interworking with the SP network s M2M N SC server.

Referring now to after initial power up block the M2M entity s Access Device e.g. the access device in may send its Initial Attach request to 3GPP AN s MME as indicated at step . This Initial Attach request may include the IMSI of the Access Device here IMSI1 as mentioned earlier . In the embodiment of the Access Device is not pre configured with 3GPP AN default M2M N SC. Therefore the Initial Attach request at step does not include any APN e.g. the request may be sent with a null APN . Upon receipt of the Initial Attach request the MME may fetch this M2M Access Device s AN Subscription Profile i.e. the M2M Access Subscription Profile discussed under Section I of this Part Two and other relevant information e.g. device authentication keys from the HSS based on IMSI1 allocated to this device as indicated at step . The MME receives the APN of the AN default M2M N SC as part of this AN Subscription Profile. The Access Device may wait for access authentication block while the MME uses the AN default M2M N SC APN to create a session at the proper SGW and the proper P GW as indicated at steps . Upon creation of desired sessions at SGW and P GW the MME may report AN attachment success to the Access Device and also assign it an IP address at step . The M2M entity may then attempt to establish a PDN connection to the AN default M2M N SC block through the P GW block . In the embodiment of the Access Device may establish an M2M SL signaling connection block with the AN default M2M N SC to facilitate M2M SL signaling by the Service Device e.g. the service device in for M2M entity s initial registration with its per choice M2M SP block . The M2M entity s Service Device may then send an SL initial registration request to the default N SC at step . This request may include the M2M entity s M2M Services Subscription Identifier and possibly D G SC Identifier depending on whether the M2M entity is an M2M Device or an M2M Gateway . The M2M Services Subscription Identifier helps the AN default M2M N SC to identify M2M entity s per choice M2M SP and the relevant SLA between the 3GPP AN operator and the M2M SP and to also identify the M2M services enablement architecture supported by the M2M SP network based on the SLA block . The AN default M2M N SC may then request SL initial registration of the M2M entity with its per choice M2M SP at step . At step the AN default N SC may provide the M2M entity s M2M Services Subscription Identifier and D G SC Identifier to the M2M SP N SC which may be deployed as an M2M SP N SC server and may request A Layers M2M D G Identifier and other parameters from the M2M SP N SC . After the SP network allocates the necessary A Layers M2M D G Identifier block the M2M SP N SC may acknowledge acceptance of the SL initial registration request at step and provide the needed A Layers ID to the AN default M2M N SC at step . In response at step the AN default N SC may update M2M Access Device s AN Subscription Profile in the HSS with the A Layer D G Identifier and possibly with the APN of the relevant AN based regular M2M N SC to facilitate future Regular Attach of the M2M entity to its per choice M2M SP . As mentioned earlier in one embodiment the AN based default M2M N SC may also function as the regular M2M N SC for a given M2M entity and its per choice M2M SP. At step the success of the Initial Attach is acknowledged by the AN default M2M N SC which also assigns to the M2M entity the APN of the AN regular M2M N SC for future Regular Attach. The M2M entity may then perform the SP network Regular Attach block as discussed below with reference to .

Referring now to after Initial Attach is successfully concluded block the M2M Access Device in the M2M entity may request Regular Attach at step using the N SC APN that was provisioned during the Service First Initial Attach i.e. at step in . As mentioned before the N SC APN at step may relate to AN regular M2M N SC here the AN M2M N SC proxy serving the M2M entity s per choice M2M SP . However in other embodiments the N SC APN at step may reference the SP s M2M N SC as the N SC server as mentioned in Case 2 described under Section VI above. The MME may then communicate with the HSS to fetch the M2M Access Device s AN Subscription Profile and other relevant information from the HSS at step . Since the HSS has both the default as well as the regular M2M N SC APNs configured the MME concludes that this attach is the Service Regular Attach. The next steps in the context of the APN of the N SC proxy in are substantially similar to the steps in the context of the APN of the default N SC in and hence are not described in any detail here. The M2M entity may then attempt to establish a PDN connection to its per choice SP s M2M N SC server block through the P GW and the N SC proxy block . The M2M entity s Access Device may establish an M2M SL signaling connection block with the AN M2M N SC proxy to facilitate M2M SL signaling by the Service Device e.g. the service device in for M2M entity s regular registration with its per choice M2M SP block . The M2M entity s Service Device may then send an SL regular registration request to the AN N SC proxy at step . This request may include the M2M entity s M2M Services Subscription Identifier D G SC Identifier depending on whether the M2M entity is an M2M Device or an M2M Gateway A Layers M2M D G Identifier and IDs of any M2M Application s e.g. M2M application s in being hosted by the Service Device and to be supported by the M2M AS in the M2M SP network . Upon receiving the SL regular registration request from the M2M entity the AN based M2M N SC proxy may bind A Layers M2M D G Identifier to M2M entity s IMSI IP address and received Application ID s block and issue a SL regular registration request to the SP based M2M N SC server at step . The regular registration request at step may contain M2M entity s M2M Services Subscription Identifier the M2M D G SC Identifier A Layers M2M D G Identifier and other relevant parameters or A Layers information . Based on the M2M entity s subscription information status at step the M2M SP s N SC server may accept the SL regular registration request at step . The AN M2M N SC proxy may then send the SL regular registration Accept Success message to the M2M entity at step thereby responding to the M2M entity s SL regular registration request at step . The SL regular registration Accept message at step may also provide the M2M entity with the reachability information for the SP based M2M AS . Thereafter at step the M2M entity through its service device may establish SL data connection with the M2M SP network for the desired M2M Application s . In one embodiment using the existing currently known 3GPP procedures which are not described herein for the sake of brevity the P GW may receive QoS information for the PDN connection used by the M2M entity s Application s to connect with SP s M2M AS as indicated at block .

It may be quite important for the 3GPP AN to be able to recognize the M2M entity s Service First Initial Attach from the subsequent Regular Attach. Such distinction between the Service First Initial Attach and Regular Attach is important because of different procedures involved in each aspect as discussed in detail before the special procedures of an Initial Attach are normally done only once during the lifetime of an M2M entity as mentioned before whereas the Regular Attach may be frequently invoked. This section briefly discusses how this differentiation between an Initial Attach and a Regular Attach may be achieved by the 3GPP Access Network e.g. the AN in .

Service First Initial Attach Case 1 M2M entity is provisioned with NULL APN . The 3GPP AN may perform the following steps to conclude that the current Attach request from an M2M entity such as e.g. the M2M entity in is for the Service First Initial Attach.

 1 Since the M2M entity has not performed the Services First Initial Attach yet the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile in the HSS e.g. the HSS in etc. may have only the AN default M2M N SC APN.

 2 The M2M entity uses NULL APN or no APN in the Initial Attach because in this case the M2M entity is not provisioned with APN of the AN default M2M N SC .

 3 The MME e.g. the MME in etc. may fetch the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile from HSS among other information. Since the HSS has only the AN default M2M N SC APN configured see step 1 above the MME may conclude based on the information received from the HSS that this attach is to be considered the Service First Initial Attach.

 4 The MME may use the AN default M2M N SC APN to create a session at the proper SGW e.g. the HSGW in or the SGW in and proper P GW e.g. the P GW in etc. .

 5 After the Service Initial Attach is successfully completed the HSS and the M2M entity may be updated e.g. by the AN default M2M N SC with the Regular M2M N SC APN to be added to the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile.

Service First Initial Attach Case 2 M2M entity is provisioned with AN default M2M N SC APN . Contrary to case 1 above in this case 2 the M2M entity is provisioned with the APN of the AN default M2M N SC e.g. the N SC in . The 3GPP AN may then perform the following steps to conclude that the current Attach request from an M2M entity is for the Service First Initial Attach.

 1 Since the M2M entity has not performed the Services First Initial Attach yet the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile in the HSS may have only the AN default M2M N SC APN.

 3 The MME may fetch the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile from HSS among other information. Since the HSS has only the AN default M2M N SC APN configured see step 1 above the MME may conclude based on the information received from the HSS that this attach is to be considered the Service First Initial Attach.

 4 The MME may use the AN default M2M N SC APN to create a session at the proper SGW and proper P GW.

 5 After the Service Initial Attach is successfully completed the HSS and the M2M entity may be updated e.g. by the AN default M2M N SC with the Regular M2M N SC APN to be added to the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile.

Service Regular Attach Case 1 M2M entity is updated with AN Regular M2M N SC APN . This case 1 relates to the situation when the M2M entity and the HSS both are updated with AN regular M2M N SC APN during Service First Initial Attach. The 3GPP AN may then perform the following steps to conclude that the current Attach request from an M2M entity is for the Regular Attach to its per choice M2M SP.

 1 Since the M2M entity has performed the Services First Initial Attach already the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile in the HSS may have both the APNs the AN default M2M N SC APN and the AN regular assigned M2M N SC APN e.g. APN of AN based N SC that is deployed as a regular M2M N SC to serve the M2M entity s per choice M2M SP .

 2 The M2M entity may use the assigned regular APN in the re attach or Regular Attach or attaching after reboot.

 3 The MME may fetch the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile from HSS among other information. Since the HSS has both the AN default and regular M2M N SC APNs configured see step 1 above the MME may conclude based on the information received from the HSS that this attach is to be considered the Service Regular Attach.

 4 The MME may then use the AN regular M2M N SC APN to create a session with the proper SGW and proper P GW.

Service Regular Attach Case 2 M2M entity is not updated with AN Regular M2M N SC APN . Contrary to case 1 above this case 2 relates to the situation when the M2M entity is not but the HSS is updated with AN regular M2M N SC APN during Service First Initial Attach. The 3GPP AN may then perform the following steps to conclude that the current Attach request from the M2M entity is for the Regular Attach to its per choice M2M Service Provider.

 1 Since the M2M entity has performed the Services First Initial Attach already the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile in the HSS may have both the AN default and the AN regular M2M N SC APNs.

 2 Since the M2M entity has not been updated with the AN regular M2M N SC APN after the Services First Initial Attach the M2M entity may use the NULL APN or no APN in the Regular Attach.

 3 The MME may fetch the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile from HSS among other information. Since the HSS has both the AN default and regular M2M N SC APNs configured see step 1 above the MME may conclude based on the information received from the HSS that this attach is to be considered the Service Regular attach.

It is noted here that in particular embodiments the MME may fetch the M2M entity s Access Subscription profile from HSS as discussed above for each case under this Section VIII only if MME s record shows that the M2M entity profile has the AN default M2M N SC configured.

Section IX Exemplary Embodiments of M2M Services Enablement for an M2M Entity that Uses a 3GPP Access or a Non 3GPP Access

The following summarizes certain salient aspects of the teachings of the present disclosure which provides a solution for using M2M services enablement for M2M entities that use a 3GPP access and a 3GPP EPC. The teachings of the present disclosure are also applicable to non 3GPP accesses e.g. eHRPD that use 3GPP EPC. Particular embodiments of the present disclosure also define a dynamic mechanism for aligning both the Access Network Transport and the M2M Services layers with respect to handling M2M Services offering to an M2M Device Gateway using 3GPP Access Network and 3GPP EPC. The present disclosure allows the deployment of M2M SL architecture to be used by the 3GPP AN operator that is inline with ETSI M2M SL architecture with enough freedom for the 3GPP AN operator for the choice of M2M Services Provider while ensuring that the 3GPP AN operator has full control of its own network and able to dynamically share the Across Layers M2M Device Gateway information with the M2M SP.

This embodiment relates to a solution according to the teachings of the present disclosure that is applicable to an M2M Device Gateway that supports a 3GPP access e.g. E UTRAN and uses a 3GPP EPC and or an M2M Device Gateway that supports a non 3GPP access e.g. cdma2000 eHRPD but uses a 3GPP EPC.

This embodiment relates to a solution according to the teachings of the present disclosure that enables M2M Services Initial Attach for M2M Devices Gateways which use a 3GPP Access e.g. E UTRAN or a non 3GPP Access e.g. cdma200 eHRPD to be connected and serviced by a 3GPP EPC in which an M2M Device Gateway may be dynamically configured by its per choice M2M Services Provider with Across Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier while the 3GPP access network operator is fully aware of such dynamic configuration and has access to the relevant A Layers information.

This embodiment relates to a solution according to the teachings of the present disclosure that provides M2M services enablement after Initial Attach for M2M Devices Gateways whether they use a 3GPP Access or a non 3GPP Access to be connected and serviced by a 3GPP EPC in which a transport connection with the M2M D G s per choice M2M Services Provider s M2M Application Server is provided via the 3GPP EPC .

This embodiment relates to a solution according to the teachings of the present disclosure that enables the 3GPP EPC anchor point e.g. a P GW and or an SGW to be aware of the type of traffic and M2M applications that use the transport connection provided to an M2M entity which may use a 3GPP Access or a non 3GPP Access to be connected and serviced by a 3GPP EPC to connect the M2M entity with its per choice M2M SP s M2M Application Server.

This embodiment relates to a solution according to the teachings of the present disclosure that dynamically updates the 3GPP Access Network s home Subscription Data Base e.g. an HSS with the M2M Access Subscriber s i.e. an M2M entity subscribed with the 3GPP AN for M2M Services updated Subscription Profile. Such updated Subscription Profile may include the dynamically allocated Across Layers M2M D G Identifier and the Updated N SC APN s e.g. SL signaling and SL Data APNs that are used to identify the connection s of the M2M Device Gateway to its per choice M2M SP s M2M N SC and Application Server.

This embodiment relates to a solution according to the teachings of the present disclosure that dynamically updates the 3GPP Access Network Policy Server e.g. a PCRF with the M2M Access Subscriber s updated policy profile that includes the dynamically allocated Across Layers M2M D G Identifier and the allowed M2M Application s and their associated QoS rules.

This embodiment relates to a solution according to the teachings of the present disclosure that enables an M2M Services Provider to offer its Initial M2M services enablement during Service First Initial Attach to an M2M entity which may use a 3GPP Access or a non 3GPP Access to be connected and serviced by a 3GPP EPC and to dynamically configure this M2M entity with the M2M SP selected Across Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier.

This embodiment relates to a solution according to the teachings of the present disclosure that enables an M2M Services Provider to offer its Initial M2M services enablement during Service First Initial Attach to an M2M entity which may use a 3GPP Access or a non 3GPP Access to be connected and serviced by a 3GPP EPC and to dynamically update the 3GPP Access Network Operator with the M2M SP s per choice Across Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier configured for this M2M entity.

In this embodiment the M2M Service Provider may coordinate with the 3GPP Access Network and have the AN regular M2M N SC APN and the A Layers M2M Device Gateway Identifier pre provisioned on the M2M entity in the M2M Services Provider and in the 3GPP Access Network. In this case the M2M entity may not require the Service First Initial Attach because the purpose of that procedure is being accomplished via pre provisioning. In this embodiment the M2M services enablement architecture that the M2M SP uses is reflected in the SLA between the 3GPP Access Operator and the M2M SP and also may be consequently reflected in the AN regular M2M N SC APN that is pre provisioned in the M2M entity s Access Device as part of the M2M entity s 3GPP Access Subscription.

Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations each feature or element can be used alone without the other features and elements or in various combinations with or without other features and elements. It is noted here that the deployment of M2M SC Proxy and enablement of M2M services in a cellular AN including a 3GPP access network and related call flows messaging may be implemented in hardware and or software which can be a computer program executable code firmware etc. incorporated in a computer readable data storage medium such as a RAM ROM semiconductor memory or other data storage media memory mentioned before .

The foregoing describes an M2M services enablement architecture for a cellular AN that allows the cellular AN operator to not only deploy its M2M SC as an M2M SC server within its network domain but to also use its M2M SC to work as an M2M SC proxy when communicating with an M2M SP network that also deploys an M2M SC server. The M2M SC proxy in the cellular AN relays all signaling plane communications between an M2M device s gateway s SC and the SP s M2M SC server. Furthermore the M2M SC proxy provides the cellular AN with an access to all of the Across Layers Transport and Service Layers information needed for the M2M services enablement in the cellular AN. This proxy based solution allows the cellular AN to serve all types of M2M SPs and relieves the M2M SP from the need to support different cellular AN interworking interfaces.

As discussed herein the M2M services enablement architecture according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure provides the flexibility and means for a cellular AN operator to offer its access network services including transport layers to be used for serving M2M Services according to the ETSI M2M SL architecture and in a way that allows the cellular AN operator to achieve the following a Use a single deployment model by deploying M2M SC within its network while being able to serve all types of M2M Service operators. b Have an easy access to all information that is required for across layers functionalities. This information can be used to help the cellular AN operator to offer its AN in a more intelligent bit pipe. c Serve other M2M Service Providers who use non ETSI M2M SL architecture. d Have the flexibility to route M2M traffic in the visited network based on home cellular AN operator policy and M2M subscription. The common M2M services enablement architecture according to particular embodiments of the present disclosure also allows the M2M SP to deploy its services on multiple access technologies simultaneously with the same deployment model.

The foregoing also describes an M2M Services Enablement Solution for offering M2M services enablement to an M2M entity that supports a 3GPP or a non 3GPP access for connection and service by a 3GPP EPC. This solution allows an AN to offer a transport connection for the M2M entity over its 3GPP EPC to M2M entity s per choice M2M SP. The M2M entity s first attach to the AN is forced to be directed to the APN of the AN default M2M N SC regardless of any other APN received from the M2M entity. The AN default M2M N SC facilitates M2M SL initial registration of the M2M entity with its per choice M2M SP. M2M entity s future Regular Attach to the SP network may be directed to the APN of an AN based regular M2M N SC that serves the M2M SP.

 a Allow a 3GPP AN operator to be fully aware of the A Layers identity of the M2M entity the type of the traffic that is being used over the AN s transport connection and the M2M applications that use the provided transport connection 

 b Allow the M2M SP to offer its Initial Services Enablement to an M2M entity that uses any cellular access and to dynamically configure the M2M SP s per choice A Layers M2M D G Identifier and at the same time to be able to reach the M2M entity as long as it is registered 

 c Provide a dynamic solution for updating the M2M entity s Access Subscription with the dynamically allocated A Layers M2M D G Identifier and the updated M2M N SC APNs i.e. SL signaling and SL Data APNs and

 d Provide a dynamic solution for updating the M2M Access Subscriber policy profile with the PCRF using the dynamically allocated A Layers M2M D G Identifier and the M2M Applications and their associated QoS.

As will be recognized by those skilled in the art the innovative concepts described in the present application can be modified and varied over a wide range of applications. Accordingly the scope of patented subject matter should not be limited to any of the specific exemplary teachings discussed above but is instead defined by the following claims.

