---

title: Multiple channel single spike for a liquid dispensing system
abstract: A spike for dispensing fluids from a flexible bag, wherein the spike includes multiple fluid channels which transfer liquids from the bag to an enclosed dispensing chamber and air from the enclosed chamber to the bag to permit and control fluid flow within the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09637369&OS=09637369&RS=09637369
owner: International Packaging Innovations, LLC
number: 09637369
owner_city: Tecumseh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150813
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 14 290 513 filed May 29 2014 and now U.S. Pat. No. 9 120 663 which is in turn a Continuation of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 738 725 filed Jan. 10 2013 and now U.S. Pat. No. 8 770 441 which is in turn a Continuation in Part of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 446 386 filed Apr. 13 2012 and now U.S. Pat. No. 8 464 906 which is in turn a Continuation of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 11 691 974 filed Mar. 27 2007 and now U.S. Pat. No. 8 177 096. The entire disclosure of all of these documents is herein incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to systems for dispensing liquids from bags in particular to a liquid dispensing system wherein liquid is dispensed from a bag via a puncturing device utilizing a single spike having a plurality of channels.

Conventional domestic liquid dispensers used primarily for providing heated or cooled water are usually free standing devices which dispense sterilized or mineral water from large rigid water bottles. The rigid water bottles have a large body portion and a narrow neck portion having a mouth opening and are coupled to a water dispenser by inverting the bottle and positioning the mouth of the bottle in a chamber of the water dispenser. Air introduced into the water bottle through the mouth allows water to be dispensed from the inverted bottle until the water level in the chamber reaches the mouth of the bottle. Since the water bottle is rigid once the water level in the chamber reaches the mouth of the bottle no more air can enter the bottle so water remaining in the inverted bottle is retained in the bottle due to the difference between the air pressure external to the inverted bottle and the air pressure inside the bottle.

Water is then dispensed from the chamber through a conduit attached to a valve at the opposite end of the chamber from the mouth of the water bottle. When the level of water in the chamber falls below the mouth of the water bottle air enters the water bottle allowing water to flow from the bottle until the water level in the chamber again reaches the mouth of the bottle.

Although conventional domestic water dispensers are widely used they are deficient in a number of respects. First water bottles used in the conventional domestic water dispensers usually contain a large quantity of sterilized water typically on the order of about five 5 gallons. A gallon of water weighs about 8.39 pounds and thus a full five gallon bottle weighs well in excess of forty 40 pounds. Due to the weight and size of a bottle holding that amount of water it is often difficult to invert and properly locate the mouth of the bottle in the chamber without spilling a quantity of the water.

Second to prevent water from continuously flowing from the water bottle while the water bottle is inverted the water bottles used with such water dispensers are fabricated from a thick rigid plastic material that can hold a vacuum without collapsing. Such bottles are expensive and due to their cost are usually resterilized and reused after an initial use. Because the bottles are rigid and enclosed they are not collapsible or stackable and require a great deal of space to transport driving up the cost of shipping the empty water bottle back to the supplier for sterilization and reuse. These costs are adsorbed by the consumer through increased water costs.

Third in order for the mouth of the water bottle to be positioned in the chamber of the cooler the water bottles must have a neck as described above. The presence of the neck however increases the difficulty in sterilizing the water bottles since the neck may limit the ability of the sterilizing agents to reach all the interior parts of the bottle even when large quantities of sterilizing agents are used. While the use of heat sterilization could overcome this problem to some extent it is generally not possible to use heat sterilization on plastic bottles. Although sterilization using ultraviolet light is possible ultraviolet light sterilization may lead to incomplete sterilization. Particularly troublesome once the bottle is inverted into the fluid dispenser the outside of the neck of the bottle can contact the fluid and it is very difficult to maintain this area of the bottle sterile.

Fourth with the necessity of sterilizing the water bottles after each use over time the rigid plastic water bottles may develop cracks or holes. If such failures occur while the water bottle is inverted in the water dispenser air will enter the water bottle and allow water to flow uncontrollably from the mouth of the water bottle allowing the chamber eventually to overflow. This water overflow can expose the purchaser s premises to the risk of water damage.

One solution to the problem of potential chamber overflow and the necessity to make bottles of rigid materials to allow for the pressure differential described above is to add a valve in the flow path between the bottle and the chamber. Such a valve allows the flow of water out of the bottle to be closed off so that the chamber does not overflow. Such a valve can operate automatically opening and closing depending on the level of the fluid in the chamber

A more recent development in fluid dispensing systems has been to utilize bags rather than bottles to transport and dispense water from an otherwise conventional fluid dispensing system office cooler . Such a system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 940 057 to Macler et al. for example the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The Macler application offers a device that dispenses fluid from a disposable or recyclable bag and thereby affords some of the benefits associated therewith.

As described in the Macler application however to overcome the problem of over flowing the chamber since a collapsible bag cannot hold a reduced pressure headspace as a rigid bottle does the device described therein uses a vent to permit and control flow between the bag and the chamber. The vent runs parallel to the cooler s vertical axis into which water flows when water is dispensed until the water level in the vent is level with the water level in the cooler. Such a vent straw equalizes the pressure within the bag with the ambient pressure.

The following is a summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. The sole purpose of this section is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Because of these and other problems in the art described herein among other things is a spike for dispensing a liquid from a bag the spike comprising a shaft comprising a proximal and distal end and an elongated body therebetween and having an outer surface a puncturing tip at the distal end a first channel internal to the shaft the first channel having a first fluid inlet on the puncturing tip through which fluid can flow through the first channel when a bag of fluid is punctured by the puncturing tip a second channel internal to the spike the second channel being noncontiguous with the first channel and having a second fluid inlet on the outer surface below the first fluid inlet through which fluid can flow through the second channel when a bag of fluid is punctured by the puncturing tip a first aperture at the proximal end allowing fluid to flow through the first channel a second aperture at the proximal end further from the distal end than the first aperture the second aperture allowing fluid to flow through the second channel.

In an embodiment the spike further comprises a puncturing tip comprising a generally cone shaped portion having a base and an opposing truncated tip the base being sized and shaped for attaching to the first end of the shaft and being attached to the first end a puncturing shaft having two opposing ends and an elongated body therebetween a first end of the two opposing ends being sized and shaped to attach to the truncated tip and the first end attached to the truncated tip and a second end of the two opposing ends being a generally cone shaped element sized and shaped for puncturing a collapsible bag of liquid.

In an embodiment the spike further comprises the shaft further comprising a generally cylindrical hollow extension having an aperture at each of two opposing ends allowing fluid to flow through the extension a first end of the two opposing ends being attached to the shaft such that the aperture in the first end generally circumscribes the second fluid inlet.

10. Also described herein among other things is a liquid dispensing system comprising a dispensing base an enclosed chamber positioned interior to the dispensing base a support external to the dispensing base the support providing support for a bag containing liquid a single spike comprising a plurality of noncontiguous internal channels the single spike being situated to puncture the bag containing liquid when the bag containing liquid is supported by the support and wherein the plurality of noncontiguous internal channels provide continuity of air and fluid flow between the enclosed chamber and the bag containing liquid upon puncturing the bag containing liquid and a dispensing valve connected to the enclosed chamber allowing for dispensing liquid from the enclosed chamber.

Also described herein among other things is a method for dispensing liquid from a collapsible bag containing liquid the method comprising the steps of providing a bag support capable of supporting a collapsible bag containing liquid during dispensing of liquid from the bag and having a supporting surface defining a first space adjacent to a first side of the supporting surface and defining a second space on a second side of the supporting surface opposite the first side the second space being an enclosed chamber providing a single spike comprising a puncturing tip and a plurality of noncontiguous internal channels each channel of the plurality of noncontiguous internal channels having a plurality of apertures on the exterior surface of the spike allowing fluid to flow through the each channel the single spike connected to the enclosed chamber such that the puncturing tip can puncture a collapsible bag containing liquid supported by the bag support and a first aperture of the plurality of apertures of the each channel is in the second space supporting a collapsible bag containing liquid with the bag support puncturing the collapsible bag containing liquid with the single spike such that a second aperture of the plurality of apertures of the each channel is in the collapsible bag containing liquid and liquid flows from the collapsible bag into the enclosed chamber through a first channel of the plurality of noncontiguous channels and air flows from the second space into the collapsible bag through a second channel of the plurality of noncontiguous channels dispensing liquid from the collapsible bag containing liquid.

In an embodiment the method further comprises the steps of providing a dispensing valve connected to the second space opening the dispensing valve to cause liquid to flow from the second space through the dispensing valve and to cause liquid to flow from the collapsible bag containing liquid into the second space dispensing liquid from a collapsible bag containing liquid.

It is understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that while this disclosure focuses on water storage and delivery it pertains to any liquid that needs to be transported in bulk kept free from contamination and dispensed in smaller quantities than that in which it is transported.

In the depicted embodiment of a multi channel single spike is used in a fluid dispensing system to permit and control fluid flow in the system from a collapsible bag . One of ordinary skill in the art will understand the term fluid as used herein to include liquids and gases. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the term channel as used herein to refer to an enclosed path or passageway through a solid and having a plurality of access points. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the terms inlet and outlet as used herein to refer to an access path to a channel for both ingress and egress and to be used to describe an intended flow of fluid in the system for purposes of clarity and understanding but these terms should not be understood as limiting fluid flow to any one direction. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the term enclosure as used herein to mean a solid material generally defining an interior space within said solid and that this term does not imply or suggest that such interior space is completely sealed off indeed an enclosure as used herein may have one or more apertures or access points.

The depicted system generally includes an enclosed chamber a multi channel single spike a collapsible bag containing liquid and a dispensing valve . The spike is comprised of a generally cylindrical shaft and a disc shaped gasket sealedly attached thereto. In an alternative embodiment the body of the spike may be in a shape other than cylindrical such as a polygonal prism. In an embodiment the shaft is in the shape of a hexagonal prism.

The gasket is attached to the shaft such that the center of the gasket is generally collinear with the major axis of the shaft and the major axis of the shaft is generally perpendicular to the radius of the gasket and the gasket circumscribes the shaft . In an embodiment the gasket and shaft are monolithically constructed. In an alternative embodiment the gasket and shaft are constructed separately and affixed together through any method suitable to maintain the mating under the pressures in the system including without limitation through heat molding and the use of adhesives.

The gasket is generally disc shaped or ring shaped and is generally sized and shaped for sealedly attaching the spike to the chamber to establish a snug airtight fit. In the depicted embodiment the gasket has a radius greater than that of the shaft but an alternative embodiment the gasket may have a radius less than or the same as that of the shaft . In the depicted embodiment the radius of the gasket is about double the radius of the shaft . The configuration of the gasket including without limitation its radius and thickness may depend upon the size and shape of the opening in the chamber . The gasket may be made from any non permeable material sufficiently rigid to maintain its own shape and withstand the fluid pressure and vacuum forces in the system such as glass porcelain ceramics synthetic moldable organic solids polymers plastics rubber and the like.

In the depicted embodiment of the gasket is attached to the chamber such that the major axis is parallel to the force of gravity and the puncturing tip of the spike is oriented upward so that a collapsible bag may be dropped or lowered onto the puncturing tip with the assistance of gravity. The gasket is sealedly attached to the chamber such as by plugging a top opening in the chamber in generally airtight fashion or being monolithically constructed with same chamber. The gasket may be attached to the chamber by heat molding adhesive or any other method suitable for use in conjunction with the forces at work in the system . In an embodiment the radius of the gasket is larger than the radius of the top opening . In the depicted embodiment the gasket is sized and shaped to couple with the opening in the chamber .

The spike further includes a second rigid gasket located generally adjacent to the gasket . The diameter of the rigid gasket is generally larger than that of both the shaft and of the coupling gasket such that the lower surface of the rigid gasket rests against or near the top of the chamber when the spike has been installed in the chamber . Because the diameter of the rigid gasket is generally larger than that of the opening the rigid gasket provides additional airtight and watertight sealing to the system . The large surface area of the rigid gasket also provides a smooth and generally uniform surface to support the punctured portion of the bag creating a stopping distance for the bag when lowered onto the spike .

The spike includes a generally cylindrical shaft having a smooth surface and two opposing ends extending generally collinearly in opposing directions from the gasket such that the major axis of the shaft is generally perpendicular to the gasket and the gasket circumscribes the shaft . When the spike is installed in the chamber the upward end of the spike includes a puncturing portion and the lower end of the spike includes a dispensation enclosure and a vent enclosure . The length of the shaft is generally sufficiently long to establish a watertight seal with the bag and to locate the inlets and outlets within the bag when the bag is punctured as described elsewhere herein but short enough that the shaft does not pierce another surface of the bag such as the opposite end from the punctured point.

The puncturing portion comprises a truncated cone shaped portion attached to the shaft such that the base of the cone shaped portion is attached to the end of the shaft distal from the gasket . In the depicted embodiment the diameter of the base of the cone shaped portion is generally the same as the diameter of the shaft and the cone shaped portion is attached to the shaft such that the center axis of the cone shaped portion is generally collinear with the center axis of the shaft. The tip of the cone shaped portion is truncated generally parallel to the base having a flat circular surface.

The spike further includes a generally cylindrical second shaft attached to the tip of the truncated cone shaped portion . The diameter of the second shaft is generally the same as the diameter of the tip of the truncated cone shaped portion and the second shaft is attached to the tip such that the center axis of the second shaft is generally collinear with the center axis of the main shaft and of the truncated cone shaped portion . The diameter of the second shaft is less than that of the main shaft .

The distal end of the second shaft includes a puncturing tip for puncturing a collapsible bag of liquid . The puncturing tip of the depicted embodiment is generally a truncated cone shaped element and is attached to the second shaft such that the base of the puncturing tip is attached to the top of the second shaft . In the depicted embodiment the diameter of the base of the puncturing tip is generally the same as the diameter of the second shaft and the puncturing tip is attached to the second shaft such that the center axis of the puncturing tip is collinear with the center axis of the shaft . In the depicted embodiment the puncturing tip is generally a truncated cone shaped element having a narrow flat top but in an alternative embodiment the puncturing tip is pointed or bladed. In an embodiment the puncturing portion is monolithically constructed such as from a single block of material or a single work piece. In another embodiment the puncturing portion and shaft are monolithically constructed.

In the depicted embodiment the portion of the shaft extending below the gasket includes a dispensing enclosure and a venting enclosure . When the spike is attached to the top opening in the chamber the dispensing enclosure extends further into the chamber than does the venting enclosure . The dispensing enclosure encloses a hollow dispensing channel and the venting enclosure encloses a hollow venting channel . The venting channel and dispensing channel are non contiguous with each other within the spike .

The dispensing enclosure and the venting enclosure are each generally in the shape of a half cylinder mutually attached at the bases and each having generally the same radius. In an alternative embodiment enclosures and are sized and shaped differently including without limitation having different radii such as to regulate and facilitate the amount rate or type of fluid that flows through each. The combination of the dispensing enclosure and venting enclosure forms a generally cylindrical shaft. The diameter of the cylinder formed by the combination of the dispensing enclosure and the venting enclosure is generally the same as that of the main shaft . In an embodiment the diameter of the cylinder formed by the venting enclosure and dispensing enclosure may be larger or smaller than that of the main shaft but generally will be smaller than that of the gasket and the rigid gasket . In an embodiment the combination of the dispensing enclosure and venting enclosure forms a generally cylindrical shaft at the gasket but one of the two enclosures and is longer than the other resulting in the generally cylindrical shaft becoming a generally half cylindrical shaft at the distal end from the gasket . In an alternative embodiment the shaft does not have a gasket. In a still further embodiment the shaft includes one or more tabbed protrusions gasket sized and shaped for coupling to and or interlocking with the chamber .

In the depicted embodiment the venting channel is a generally cylindrical passageway extending through the spike and having an air inlet at the distal end of the venting enclosure through which air in the chamber may enter the venting channel and having an air outlet above the gasket through which air in the venting channel may enter the collapsible bag . In the depicted embodiment the venting channel is generally a straight channel through the spike running generally parallel to the center axis of the spike and not necessarily collinear with the center axis of the spike but rather offset from the center axis of the spike such that the center axis of the spike is not within the venting channel .

In the depicted embodiment the air outlet is an aperture in the outer surface of the truncated cone shaped portion of the puncturing portion but in an alternative embodiment the air outlet may be located elsewhere on a surface of the shaft or puncturing portion generally above the gasket . It is preferred that the air outlet be located in such a manner as not to compromise the structural integrity of the spike and that the air outlet be sized and shaped to permit an effective amount of air to egress the venting channel at an effectively airflow rate to permit and control the flow of fluids in the system as elsewhere described herein and in the incorporated references.

The dispensing channel is a generally cylindrical passageway extending through the spike and having a liquid inlet above the gasket through which liquid in the bag may enter the dispensing channel and having a liquid outlet at the distal end of the dispensing enclosure through which liquid in the dispensing channel may enter the chamber . In the depicted embodiment the dispensing channel is a generally straight channel extending through the spike to a point above the gasket at which point the dispensing channel turns at approximately a ninety degree 90 angle and proceeds generally away from the center axis of the spike and through a fluid inlet enclosure attached to the outer surface of the shaft . In the depicted embodiment the fluid inlet is an aperture in the distal end of the fluid inlet enclosure distal from the shaft . The portion of the dispensing channel from the liquid outlet to the fluid inlet enclosure is generally a straight channel through the spike running generally parallel to the center axis of the spike and generally not collinear with the center axis of the spike but rather offset from the center axis of the spike such that the center axis of the spike is not within the dispensing channel . In a still further embodiment channels and may be arranged differently. By way of example and not limitation channels and may be arranged in a V shaped orientation.

In the depicted embodiment the fluid inlet is an aperture in the fluid inlet enclosure and the fluid inlet enclosure is located near the gasket . This has the advantage of minimizing waste liquid in the system . In an alternative embodiment the fluid inlet may be located elsewhere above the gasket or include or use different structure not depicted in . In an embodiment the spike does not include a fluid inlet enclosure . For example in the alternative embodiment of the fluid inlet A may be an aperture in the outer surface of the shaft or may be an aperture B in the outer surface of the truncated cone shaped portion of the puncturing portion . It is preferred that the fluid inlet be located in such a manner as not to compromise the structural integrity of the spike and that the fluid inlet be sized and shaped to permit an effective amount of liquid to ingress the dispensing channel at an effective flow rate to permit and control the flow of fluid in the system as elsewhere described herein and in the incorporated references.

In the depicted embodiment of the dispensing enclosure and venting enclosure are contiguous but in an alternative embodiment such as the alternative embodiment of the dispensing enclosure and venting enclosure are non contiguous.

In an embodiment there may be a plurality of inlets or outlets for one or both of the channels and . In a still further embodiment the spike may enclose still further channels not depicted in addition to channels and . Although the channels are generally described as cylindrical the channels are sized and shaped to facility the flow of fluid in the system and may have other configurations or shapes including without limitation polygonal prisms.

In the depicted embodiment the bag of liquid is suspended from a support not depicted and dropped onto the spike so that the puncturing tip punctures the outer surface of the bag and the spike penetrates the bag . The spike need only penetrate the bag such that the liquid inlet and gas outlet are within the interior space of the bag though the spike will generally penetrate the bag such that the punctured portion of the bag is on or near the rigid gasket .

In the preferred embodiment the bag is made from a material with inherent elastic and tensile properties. Some suitable materials are described in the 096 patent to Macler. As the puncturing is performed the puncturing tip creates a small hole or tear from the outer surface to the inner surface of the bag . This hole is generally similarly sized and shaped as the puncturing tip . In an embodiment the opening in the bag is gradually enlarged as the bag is pushed over the puncturing portion and onto the shaft .

In an alternative embodiment the opening does not enlarge significantly. In such an embodiment as the bag is pushed onto the spike the spike the portion of the bag forming the hole circumscribes the second shaft . When the hole reaches the truncated cone shaped portion the material forming the hole stretches around the increasing circumference of the truncated cone shaped portion but the hole generally does not tear or enlarge because of the elastic properties of the material of the bag . This stretching in turn generates tensile force exerted by the bag material on the portion of the spike with which the hole is in contact improving the watertight seal between the bag and the spike . When the bag has been lowered into proper position unto the spike the material forming the hole in the bag is stretched to about the circumstance of the shaft .

The chamber is generally contained within a supporting structure such a water cooler as in . The chamber is generally internally sanitized and sterilized. In the depicted embodiments of the chamber is connected to a dispensing valve through a dispensing channel . When the dispensing value is actuated water flows out of a spigot or similar dispensing structure. Because the dispensing channel is connected to the chamber the departure of liquid from the dispensing channel in turn causes the liquid level in the chamber to decrease.

As described elsewhere herein the spike is positioned with respect to the chamber such that the ventral portion of the spike below the gasket is generally within the interior portion of the chamber and the connection between the spike and chamber is generally airtight and watertight. The interior of the bag is also generally sanitized and sterilized. Thus when the bag is punctured the combination of the bag spike and chamber create a generally internally sealed sanitary sterilized airtight and watertight system. In the depicted embodiment the dispensing enclosure extends further into the chamber than does the venting enclosure . This allows air to be forced into the venting enclosure to maintain proper pressure within the system as described elsewhere herein. The length of the enclosures and will generally be such that both enclosures and terminate within the chamber and do not contact any interior surface of the chamber allowing fluid to ingress and or egress the channels and via the inlets and .

The chamber may be of any shape or size. In an embodiment a system for heating or cooling the liquid in the chamber is included and the chamber will be sized and shaped to accommodate such a system and to hold a sufficient amount of cooled or heated liquid to provide an adequate supply or cooled and or heated liquid for the particular environment in which the device will be used.

In the depicted embodiment of the liquid channel is larger in diameter than the airflow chamber and the flow rate for water from the bag to the chamber is higher than the flow rate of air from the chamber to the bag . This configuration both permits appropriate fluid flow within the system and prevents chugging whereby water from the bag drains into the chamber in a fitful start and stop manner as the air pressure between the bag and chamber rapidly oscillates between equalized and unequalized which in turn causes noise vibration and erratic dispensing behavior.

The liquid inlet is generally closer to the rigid gasket than the top opening for the airflow chamber so that among other things more water in the bag can flow into the chamber . That is once the water level in the bag is below the liquid inlet there will be no liquid in the bag capable of entering the fluid flow chamber because the waterline in the bag is below the opening . While some water might be splashed into the fluid flow chamber through the opening such as by shaking or jostling the water cooler this is not preferred and may result in damage to the system. Thus to the extent that water remains in the bag at a level below that of the liquid inlet that water is generally not able to be dispensed by the system . At this point the bag is effectively empty and should be replaced. The closer that the liquid inlet is to the rigid gasket the less the amount of wasted water there will be in the bag when the bag is effectively empty.

The dispensation enclosure generally extends further into the chamber than the vent enclosure as illustrated in although both enclosures and are part of a single shaft. When the bag is initially punctured and situated such that fluid flow out of the bag is encouraged by gravity pressure or any other means fluid in the bag enters holes and in both channels and . The chamber closed at the spigot fills with fluid released through both channels and . However it will generally occur primarily through the dispensation channel which is generally adapted to permit water flow more easily than does the venting channel .

As liquid continues to flow from the bag into the chamber the level of liquid contained in the chamber continues to rise. Water in the chamber will displace the air in the chamber forcing the air to seek escape from the chamber . The only opening not effectively blocked with water is vent channel which will result in air generally passing upward through channel and with some air passing through channel . Fluid and air flow generally continues through both channels and until the liquid in the chamber accumulates to the point of reaching the terminus of the dispensation channel at which point air can no longer flow into dispensation channel . As water will however continue to flow as there is no vacuum in the bag air will be forced in greater amount up the vent channel . Once the water reaches the bottom of the vent channel the air can no longer escape from chamber . At that point some air remains in the chamber . Water will continue to flow into the chamber which will pressurize the air remaining which cannot escape as the water level in the chamber continues to increase. Eventually this pressure will equal that exercised by gravity and external pressure on the water feeding the chamber and water flow will cease as the pressure equalizes.

Upon the puncturing of a sealed bag by the spike the fluid path out of the chamber through the spike has become sealed relative to the ambient environment external to the system . That is after the puncturing of the bag there is no connection between the external environment and the chamber . The vent channel then becomes the only passage through which to equalize the pressure between the chamber and vents air into the bag .

Thus if the pressure in the chamber is less than the pressure exerted by the bag liquid continues to flow into the chamber . The pressure in the chamber however begins to rise. Liquid flows into the chamber and the pressure in the chamber rises until the point where the pressure in the chamber equals the water pressure from the bag . At this point flow from the bag into the chamber will stop as pressure equalizes.

Now with liquid in the chamber the same liquid can be dispensed through the dispensing valve . When the dispensing valve is opened to allow liquid to be dispensed from the chamber the water level in the chamber decreases until eventually the liquid level in the chamber is lower than the inlet of the vent channel . During dispensing the pressure in the chamber is reduced from the value at equilibrium no flow thus allowing liquid to again begin to flow from the bag into the chamber . So long as the volume liquid flow through channels and are less than the volume liquid flow through the dispensing valve the liquid level in the chamber continues to decrease as the liquid continues to be dispensed. So long as the volume rate of flow out of the dispensing valve i.e. out of the chamber is greater than the combined volume rate of flow into the chamber through the dispensation channel the pressure in the chamber will also continue to decrease.

When the dispensing valve is finally closed the reduced pressure in the chamber will add to the total force working to move liquid from the bag into the chamber . Not only will gravity be pulling the liquid through the dispensation channel but also pressure external to the bag will be pushing the liquid through the dispensation channel into the chamber . Such a chamber in which pressure is reduced during dispensing is beneficial to the evacuation of liquid from the bag to the greatest extent since in effect the reduced pressure in the chamber results in a greater net force working to push liquid out of the bag . As stated above these forces will work to move liquid from the bag into the chamber until all forces are equilibrated. In the event that the liquid in the bag is exhausted the vacuum in the chamber will generally pull air from the bag into the chamber collapsing the bag and draining any remaining water into the dispensation channel .

In a case where a new bag full of liquid is punctured by the spike it is possible that there will be a transient increase in pressure in the chamber especially if the bag is dropped onto the spike as in the preferred embodiment.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with certain preferred embodiments this should not be taken as a limitation to all of the provided details. Modifications and variations of the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and other embodiments should be understood to be encompassed in the present disclosure as would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

