---

title: Systems, apparatus, and methods for heat dissipation
abstract: Some examples of the disclosure include a semiconductor package having a heat spreader, an outer perimeter portion attached to the bottom of the heat spreader along the perimeter and having a plurality of electrical pathways, a package substrate located below and spaced from the outer perimeter portion and having a plurality of electrical pathways, a plurality of connection points located between the outer perimeter component and the package substrate to provide connection points coupling the plurality of electrical pathways of the outer perimeter portion to the plurality of electrical pathways in the package substrate, and a cavity formed on the bottom of the heat spreader inside the outer perimeter portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460980&OS=09460980&RS=09460980
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09460980
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150218
---
This disclosure relates generally to heat dissipation coupled with electrical connectivity and more specifically but not exclusively to a semiconductor package.

As the need for more complex semiconductor packages with increased functionality grows there is a significant challenge associated with achieving this goal. The challenge is how to increase the routing density necessitated by the increased functionality without impacting other parameters or unduly increasing the package area. The conventional approach to this challenge is to reduce the metal line and space parameters L S and add more routing layers to the package substrate. However this increases the package area which results in an increase in potential package warpage. Accordingly there is a need for systems apparatus and methods that improve upon conventional approaches without increasing package area or routing density.

The inventive features that are characteristic of the teachings together with further features and advantages are better understood from the detailed description and the accompanying figures. Each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and does not limit the present teachings.

The following presents a simplified summary relating to one or more aspects and or examples associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein. As such the following summary should not be considered an extensive overview relating to all contemplated aspects and or examples nor should the following summary be regarded to identify key or critical elements relating to all contemplated aspects and or examples or to delineate the scope associated with any particular aspect and or example. Accordingly the following summary has the sole purpose to present certain concepts relating to one or more aspects and or examples relating to the apparatus and methods disclosed herein in a simplified form to precede the detailed description presented below.

In some examples of the disclosure the system apparatus and method includes a semiconductor package comprising a heat spreader having a bottom side and a perimeter an outer perimeter portion attached to the bottom side of the heat spreader along the perimeter of the heat spreader the outer perimeter portion having a plurality of electrical pathways therein a package substrate located below and spaced from the outer perimeter portion the package substrate having a plurality of electrical pathways therein a plurality of connection points located between the outer perimeter component and the package substrate the plurality of connection points coupling the plurality of electrical pathways of the outer perimeter portion to the plurality of electrical pathways in the package substrate and wherein the outer perimeter portion forms a cavity on the bottom side of the heat spreader.

In some examples of the disclosure the system apparatus and method includes a semiconductor package comprising a heat spreader having a bottom side and a perimeter an outer perimeter portion attached to the bottom side of the heat spreader along the perimeter of the heat spreader the outer perimeter portion having a plurality of electrical pathways therein an inner portion attached to the bottom side of the heat spreader the inner portion having a plurality of electrical pathways therein a package substrate located below and spaced from the outer perimeter portion the package substrate having a plurality of electrical pathways therein a plurality of connection points located between the outer perimeter component and the package substrate the plurality of connection points coupling the plurality of electrical pathways of the outer perimeter portion to the plurality of electrical pathways in the package substrate and wherein the outer perimeter portion and the inner portion form a first cavity on the bottom side of the heat spreader and a second cavity on the bottom side of the heat spreader horizontally adjacent the first cavity and spaced therefrom.

In some examples of the disclosure the system apparatus and method includes a heat spreader comprising a first portion having a bottom side and a perimeter an outer perimeter portion attached to the bottom side of the first portion along the perimeter of the first portion the outer perimeter portion having a plurality of electrical pathways therein a plurality of connection points located on a bottom side of the outer perimeter opposite the first portion the plurality of connection points being coupled to the plurality of electrical pathways of the outer perimeter portion and providing an external connection and wherein the outer perimeter portion forms a cavity on the bottom side of the first portion.

In some examples of the disclosure the system apparatus and method includes a heat spreader comprising a first portion having a bottom side and a perimeter an outer perimeter portion attached to the bottom side of the first portion along the perimeter of the first portion the outer perimeter portion having a plurality of electrical pathways therein an inner portion attached to the bottom side of the first portion the inner portion having a plurality of electrical pathways therein a plurality of connection points located between the outer perimeter component and the package substrate the plurality of connection points coupling the plurality of electrical pathways of the outer perimeter portion to the plurality of electrical pathways in the package substrate and wherein the outer perimeter portion and the inner portion form a first cavity on the bottom side of the first portion and a second cavity on the bottom side of the first portion horizontally adjacent the first cavity and spaced therefrom.

Other features and advantages associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art based on the accompanying drawings and detailed description.

In accordance with common practice the features depicted by the drawings may not be drawn to scale. Accordingly the dimensions of the depicted features may be arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. In accordance with common practice some of the drawings are simplified for clarity. Thus the drawings may not depict all components of a particular apparatus or method. Further like reference numerals denote like features throughout the specification and figures.

The exemplary methods apparatus and systems disclosed herein advantageously address the industry needs as well as other previously unidentified needs and mitigate shortcomings of the conventional methods apparatus and systems. For instance a semiconductor package in accordance with some examples may include a heat spreader for dissipating heat produced by the semiconductor package and providing mechanical support to prevent warpage of the semiconductor package an outer perimeter portion attached to the heat spreader along the perimeter and having a plurality of electrical pathways therein to alleviate routing density of the semiconductor package a package substrate located below and spaced from the outer perimeter portion and having a plurality of electrical pathways therein a plurality of connection points located between the outer perimeter component and the package substrate that couple the plurality of electrical pathways of the outer perimeter portion to the plurality of electrical pathways in the package substrate and wherein the outer perimeter portion forms a cavity on the bottom side of the heat spreader for the attachment of a semiconductor die. In some examples the semiconductor package has two cavities for the attachment of two semiconductor dies and an inner portion located between the two cavities and having a plurality of electrical pathways therein for coupling the two semiconductor dies.

Various aspects are disclosed in the following description and related drawings to show specific examples relating to the disclosure. Alternate examples will be apparent to those skilled in the pertinent art upon reading this disclosure and may be constructed and practiced without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure. Additionally well known elements will not be described in detail or may be omitted so as to not obscure the relevant details of the aspects and examples disclosed herein.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any details described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other examples. Likewise the term examples does not require that all examples include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation. Use of the terms in one example an example in one feature and or a feature in this specification does not necessarily refer to the same feature and or example. Furthermore a particular feature and or structure can be combined with one or more other features and or structures. Moreover at least a portion of the apparatus described hereby can be configured to perform at least a portion of a method described hereby.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting of examples of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It should be noted that the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof mean any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between elements and can encompass a presence of an intermediate element between two elements that are connected or coupled together via the intermediate element. Coupling and or connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. As employed herein elements can be connected or coupled together for example by using one or more wires cables and or printed electrical connections as well as by using electromagnetic energy. The electromagnetic energy can have wavelengths in the radio frequency region the microwave region and or the optical both visible and invisible region. These are several non limiting and non exhaustive examples.

It should be understood that the term signal can include any signal such as a data signal audio signal video signal multimedia signal analog signal and or digital signal. Information and signals can be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data an instruction a process step a command information a signal a bit and or a symbol described in this description can be represented by a voltage a current an electromagnetic wave a magnetic field and or particle an optical field and or particle and any combination thereof.

Any reference herein to an element using a designation such as first second and so forth does not limit the quantity and or order of those elements. Rather these designations are used as a convenient method of distinguishing between two or more elements and or instances of an element. Thus a reference to first and second elements does not mean that only two elements can be employed or that the first element must necessarily precede the second element. Also unless stated otherwise a set of elements can comprise one or more elements. In addition terminology of the form at least one of A B or C used in the description or the claims can be interpreted as A or B or C or any combination of these elements. 

Further many examples are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the examples described herein the corresponding form of any such examples may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

In this description certain terminology is used to describe certain features. The term mobile device can describe and is not limited to a mobile phone a mobile communication device a pager a personal digital assistant a personal information manager a mobile hand held computer a laptop computer a wireless device a wireless modem and or other types of portable electronic devices typically carried by a person and or having communication capabilities e.g. wireless cellular infrared short range radio etc. . Further the terms user equipment UE mobile terminal mobile device and wireless device can be interchangeable.

Processor which executes instructions from at least two instruction sets in different instruction set operating modes additionally includes a debug circuit operative to compare upon the execution of each instruction at least a predetermined target instruction set operating mode to the current instruction set operating mode and to provide an indication of a match between the two. Debug circuit is described in greater detail below.

Pipeline fetches instructions from an instruction cache I cache with memory address translation and permissions managed by an Instruction side Translation Lookaside Buffer ITLB . Data is accessed from a data cache D cache with memory address translation and permissions managed by a main Translation Lookaside Buffer TLB . In various examples ITLB may comprise a copy of part of TLB . Alternatively ITLB and TLB may be integrated. Similarly in various examples of processor I cache and D cache may be integrated or unified. Further I cache and D cache may be L1 caches. Misses in I cache and or D cache cause an access to main off chip memory by a memory interface . Memory interface may be a master input to a bus interconnect implementing a shared bus to one or more memory devices that may incorporate the improved data decompression in accordance with some examples of the disclosure. Additional master devices not shown may additionally connect to bus interconnect .

Processor may include input output I O interface which may be a master device on a peripheral bus across which I O interface may access various peripheral devices via bus . Those of skill in the art will recognize that numerous variations of processor are possible. For example processor may include a second level L2 cache for either or both I and D caches . In addition one or more of the functional blocks depicted in processor may be omitted from a particular example. Other functional blocks that may reside in processor such as a JTAG controller instruction pre decoder branch target address cache and the like are not germane to a description of the present disclosure and are omitted for clarity.

Referring to a system that includes a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone which has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from a radio access network RAN that may ultimately come from a core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. Platform can include transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in memory of the wireless device. Memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Platform also can include local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . Local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. Internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an example of the disclosure can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between UE and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network.

The top package component may include a heat dissipation or spreader component for dissipating and storing heat generated by the semiconductor die an outer perimeter component extending downward towards the bottom package substrate from a bottom surface of the heat spreader component along the outer perimeter of the heat spreader component a cavity located approximately in the center of the heat spreader component facing downward from the bottom surface of the heat spreader component and a plurality of solder connection points located between the outer perimeter component and the bottom package substrate to provide a signal path between these components. The solder connection points outer perimeter component and heat spreader component combine to increase the structural integrity of the semiconductor package and decrease the risk of package warpage.

The semiconductor die may be located in the cavity with a back side facing the heat spreader component and an active side facing the bottom package substrate . The semiconductor die may include a thermal interface material between the semiconductor die and the heat spreader component to thermally couple the semiconductor die to the heat spreader component and a plurality of solder connection points between the semiconductor die and the bottom package substrate to provide an electrical pathway between the semiconductor die and the bottom package substrate .

The top package component may include a heat dissipation or spreader component for dissipating and storing heat generated by the semiconductor dies and a first cavity facing downward from a bottom surface of the heat spreader component a second cavity facing downward from the bottom surface of the heat spreader component and horizontally adjacent and spaced from the first cavity an outer perimeter component extending downward towards the bottom package substrate from the bottom surface of the heat spreader component along the outer perimeter of the heat spreader component an inner component extending downward towards the bottom package substrate from the bottom surface of the heat spreader component and located between the first cavity and the second cavity and a first plurality of solder connection points located between the outer perimeter component and the bottom package substrate to provide a signal path between these components. The solder connection points outer perimeter component inner component and heat spreader component combine to increase the structural integrity of the semiconductor package and decrease the risk of package warpage.

The first semiconductor die may be located in the first cavity with a back side facing the heat spreader component and an active side facing the bottom package substrate . The first semiconductor die may include a thermal interface material between the semiconductor die and the heat spreader component to thermally couple the semiconductor die to the heat spreader component and a plurality of solder connection points between the semiconductor die and the bottom package substrate to provide an electrical pathway between the semiconductor die and the bottom package substrate .

The second semiconductor die may be located in the second cavity with a back side facing the heat spreader component and an active side facing the bottom package substrate . The semiconductor die may include a thermal interface material between the semiconductor die and the heat spreader component to thermally couple the semiconductor die to the heat spreader component and a plurality of solder connection points between the semiconductor die and the bottom package substrate to provide an electrical pathway between the semiconductor die and the bottom package substrate .

The process continues as shown in with the formation of solder connection points on a bottom surface of the outer perimeter components . This may be accomplished in a number of ways such as printing solder paste on the bottom surface of the outer perimeter components and reflowing the solder to form solder interconnects using a solder mask and opening formed therein for the solder paste print.

The process continues as shown in with the formation of a cavity in the top package component towards the center of the top package component inside the outer perimeter component on the bottom surface of the heat spreader component . This may be accomplished in a number of ways such as laser or mechanical drilling through dielectric layer to expose the bottom surface of the heat spreader component wherein a thermal interface material not shown may be applied.

The process continues as shown in with the application of the thermal interface material in the cavity followed by attachment of the top package component to a bottom package substrate with a semiconductor die on a top surface of the bottom package substrate such that the semiconductor die is centered in cavity . The solder connection points may be subject to a reflow process while a spring clip is used to secure the heat spreader component to the bottom package substrate .

Nothing stated or illustrated depicted in this application is intended to dedicate any component step feature benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether the component step feature benefit advantage or the equivalent is recited in the claims.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the examples disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the examples disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration .

Although some aspects have been described in connection with a device it goes without saying that these aspects also constitute a description of the corresponding method and so a block or a component of a device should also be understood as a corresponding method step or as a feature of a method step. Analogously thereto aspects described in connection with or as a method step also constitute a description of a corresponding block or detail or feature of a corresponding device. Some or all of the method steps can be performed by a hardware apparatus or using a hardware apparatus such as for example a microprocessor a programmable computer or an electronic circuit. In some examples some or a plurality of the most important method steps can be performed by such an apparatus.

The examples described above merely constitute an illustration of the principles of the present disclosure. It goes without saying that modifications and variations of the arrangements and details described herein will become apparent to other persons skilled in the art. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure be restricted only by the scope of protection of the appended patent claims rather than by the specific details presented on the basis of the description and the explanation of the examples herein.

In the detailed description above it can be seen that different features are grouped together in examples. This manner of disclosure should not be understood as an intention that the claimed examples require more features than are explicitly mentioned in the respective claim. Rather the situation is such that inventive content may reside in fewer than all features of an individual example disclosed. Therefore the following claims should hereby be deemed to be incorporated in the description wherein each claim by itself can stand as a separate example. Although each claim by itself can stand as a separate example it should be noted that although a dependent claim can refer in the claims to a specific combination with one or a plurality of claims other examples can also encompass or include a combination of said dependent claim with the subject matter of any other dependent claim or a combination of any feature with other dependent and independent claims. Such combinations are proposed herein unless it is explicitly expressed that a specific combination is not intended. Furthermore it is also intended that features of a claim can be included in any other independent claim even if said claim is not directly dependent on the independent claim.

It should furthermore be noted that methods disclosed in the description or in the claims can be implemented by a device comprising means for performing the respective steps or actions of this method.

Furthermore in some examples an individual step action can be subdivided into a plurality of sub steps or contain a plurality of sub steps. Such sub steps can be contained in the disclosure of the individual step and be part of the disclosure of the individual step.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative examples of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the examples of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

