---

title: Multi-stream-multipoint-jack audio streaming
abstract: A method and device for streaming the output of one or more audio sources to one or more smart headsets includes establishing a secure connection with a smart headset, associating an audio channel of the one or more audio sources with the smart headset, and streaming the associated audio channel to the smart headset. The audio streaming device may selectively stream one or more audio channels from one or more audio sources to one or more of the smart headsets as a function of a streaming policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602925&OS=09602925&RS=09602925
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09602925
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150511
---
The present application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 997 764 entitled MULTI STREAM MULTIPOINT JACK AUDIO STREAMING which was filed on Jun. 25 2013.

Portable computing devices have become ubiquitous with everyday life so much so that an increasing number of people carry at least one portable device with them at all times. Many of these devices include functionality that enables a user to listen to audio content from a variety of audio sources. For example various portable computing devices enable the user to listen to digital music files AM FM radio stations Internet radio stations etc. However due to physical design and cost considerations portable computing devices are typically limited to providing audio content from a single audio source to one or two headsets. That is conventional portable computing devices are limited to providing the same audio content to one or two headsets.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes means to specify operands resource partitioning sharing duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated however by one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments of the invention implemented in a computer system may include one or more bus based interconnects or links between components and or one or more point to point interconnects between components. Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on a transitory or non transitory machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks electrical signals and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. In addition for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data or instructions it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths e.g. a bus as may be needed to effect the communication.

Referring now to a system for streaming the output of one or more audio sources to one or more smart headsets includes an audio streaming device one or more audio sources e.g. AUDIO SOURCE AUDIO SOURCE. . . AUDIO SOURCE and one or more smart headsets e.g. SMART HEADSET SMART HEADSET. . . SMART HEADSET . In use as discussed in more detail below the audio streaming device encodes audio output channels by one or more audio sources . Each encoded audio channel may then be selectively streamed to separate smart headsets or to a group of smart headsets wirelessly. Additionally or alternatively two or more encoded audio channels may be simultaneously streamed to the smart headsets or intermittently streamed to the smart headsets .

The audio streaming device may be embodied as any type of computing device capable of performing the functions described herein. For example the audio streaming device may be embodied as a desktop computer a laptop computer a mobile internet device a handheld computer a smart phone a tablet computer a personal digital assistant a telephony device or other computing device. In one particular embodiment the audio streaming device is embodied as a portable audio player. In the illustrative embodiment of the audio streaming device includes a processor an I O subsystem a memory a data storage device and one or more peripheral devices . In some embodiments several of the foregoing components may be incorporated on a motherboard of the audio streaming device while other components may be communicatively coupled to the motherboard via for example a peripheral port. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the audio streaming device may include other components sub components and devices commonly found in an audio player audio streaming device and or computing device which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

The processor of the audio streaming device may be embodied as any type of processor capable of executing software firmware such as a microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller or the like. The processor is illustratively embodied as a single core processor having a processor core . However in other embodiments the processor may be embodied as a multi core processor having multiple processor cores . Additionally the audio streaming device may include additional processors having one or more processor cores .

The I O subsystem of the audio streaming device may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor and or other components of the audio streaming device . In some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge and a firmware device. In such embodiments the firmware device of the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory device for storing Basic Input Output System BIOS data and or instructions and or other information e.g. a BIOS driver used during booting of the audio streaming device . However in other embodiments I O subsystems having other configurations may be used. For example in some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processor and the processor may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the hashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the I O subsystem may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processor and other components of the audio streaming device on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processor is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. These signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the components of the audio streaming device . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus intervening devices and or the like.

The memory of the audio streaming device may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Various data and software may be stored in the memory device . For example one or more operating systems applications programs libraries and drivers that make up the software stack executed by the processor may reside in memory during execution. Furthermore software and data stored in memory may be swapped between the memory and the data storage device as part of memory management operations.

In some embodiments the audio streaming device may include additional memory devices . For example the audio streaming device may include a secure memory device which may store one or more encryption keys and or licenses for decrypting or authorizing playback of protected media content. Although only one memory device is illustrated in the audio streaming device may include any number of additional memory devices in other embodiments.

The audio streaming device may also include data storage device s . The data storage device s may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data such as for example memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices. In some embodiments the data storage device s may store audio content for replay to a user of the audio streaming device . In such embodiments the data storage device and associated circuitry may embodied one of the audio sources .

Additionally the audio streaming device may include communication circuitry to facilitate communication with one or more remote computing devices over a network. The audio streaming device may use any suitable communication protocol to communicate with other computing devices over the network depending on for example the particular type of network s . For example in some embodiments the audio streaming device may communicate with one or more of the audio sources such as Internet radio stations over the network.

In one illustrative embodiment of the communication circuitry may also include one or more radio frequency RF transceivers to facilitate wireless communication with the one or more smart headsets . In such embodiments the one or more RF transceivers may comprise one or more Bluetooth transceivers or any other short range transceiver suitable for use in communicating with the one or more smart headsets . It should be understood that although only short range transceivers are described in this illustrative embodiment the audio streaming device may comprise other types of transceivers in other embodiments. For example in some embodiments the audio streaming device may comprise one or more long range transceivers to facilitate wireless communication with the one or more smart headsets . Additionally depending on of the type of transceiver used the audio streaming device may include one or more antennas. The antennas in some embodiments may be located inside of the audio streaming device or they may be located external to the audio streaming device .

Although the communication circuitry in the illustrative embodiment of includes one or more RF transceivers to wirelessly communicate with the one or more smart headsets it should be appreciated that the communication circuitry may also include one or more components that facilitate wired communications with the one or more smart headsets in other embodiments. For example in an illustrative embodiment the communication circuitry may include components that facilitate communications with the one or more smart headsets over a universal serial bus USB connection an RS 232 connection a physical parallel connection or any other appropriate type of physical communication path. Of course in embodiments in which the communication circuitry includes components for wired communications with the one or more smart headsets the headsets may include corresponding components and circuitry.

Additionally in embodiments wherein the communication circuitry includes components for wired communications with the one or more smart headsets the audio streaming device may include one or more input output jacks. The one or more input output jacks in such embodiments may provide a physical connection and or mechanism for receiving any number of wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus intervening devices and or the like to communicatively couple the audio streaming device with the one or more smart headsets . For example in one embodiment the audio streaming device includes an input output jack for connecting the one or more headsets via a splitter. To do so the splitter may comprise a first communication end and a second communication end. The first communication end of the splitter may include a wire and or cable having a single termination point suitable for connection with the input output jack of the audio streaming device . The second communication end of the splitter may include any number of input output jacks for connecting the one or more headsets to the splitter. It should be understood that any suitable mechanism for connecting one or more headsets to an input output jack of the audio streaming device may be used. For example the splitter may comprise multiple conductive cores one core for each input output jack included in the second communication end. In such examples the multiple conductive cores of the splitter may form a connection with any number of contact points in the input output jacks of the audio streaming device . It should be understood however that although a splitter having separate conductive cores is utilized in some embodiments other mechanisms such as a bus or a switch may be used to physically connect the one or more smart headsets to the audio streaming device in other embodiments.

The audio streaming device may also include audio input output circuitry to facilitate communications with the one or more audio sources . The audio input output circuitry may be embodied as or otherwise include any type of audio input output circuitry capable of receiving audio content from the audio source s . As such the particular structure of the audio input output circuitry may depend on the type of audio source . To do so the audio input output circuitry may be communicatively coupled to the one or more audio sources via a number of signal links. These signal links may be embodied as any type of signal path capable of facilitating communication between the audio input output circuitry of the audio streaming device and the one or more audio sources . For example the signal links may be embodied as any number of audio jacks wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus intervening devices and or the like.

The peripheral devices of the audio streaming device may include any number of peripheral or interface devices. For example the peripheral devices may include a display a touch screen a keyboard a mouse external speakers and or other peripheral devices. The peripheral devices are communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths thereby allowing the I O subsystem and or processor to receive inputs from and send outputs to the peripheral devices . The particular devices included in the peripheral devices may depend upon for example the intended use of the audio streaming device .

In the illustrative embodiment shown the peripheral devices includes graphics circuitry embodied as a graphics processing unit of a graphics peripheral card and a display . The graphics circuitry may be used to perform various graphics processing functions such as accelerating the generation of graphics and the like. As such the graphics circuitry is typically used to support the generation of graphics on the display of the audio streaming device . However the graphics circuitry may also be used to process visual images captured by a camera of the audio streaming device and or perform other tasks for the audio streaming device . For example the graphics circuitry may execute software firmware of the audio streaming device in conjunction with or separate from the processor . In some embodiments the processor may also include the graphics circuitry defined on a common die with the processor core .

The smart headsets may be embodied as any type of portable device capable of reproducing sounds corresponding to the one or more audio channels described below. To do so the smart headset may include various components typically found in a headset device. For example the smart headsets may include one or more loudspeakers for reproducing sounds from a signal source. The smart headsets may also include communication circuitry to facilitate communication with the audio streaming device . For example similar to the audio streaming device the smart headsets may include any number of Bluetooth transceivers or any other short range transceiver suitable for use in communicating data and or control signals with the audio streaming device . Additionally the smart headsets may also comprise one or more internal or external antennas to facilitate communication via the short range transceivers. In some embodiments the smart headsets may also include control circuitry to allow a user of the smart headset to control various features of the headset such as the volume selection of an audio channel of a plurality of audio channels received from the audio streaming device and so forth. In such embodiments the control circuitry may be embodied as one or more processors associated memory I O subsystems data storage devices and or various peripheral devices each of which may be similar to or different from the corresponding devices of the audio streaming device described above.

The audio sources may be embodied as any type of audio source capable of providing one or more audio channels or signals to the audio streaming device as described below. To do so the audio sources may include various components typically found in an audio device. For example the audio sources may include circuitry for receiving analog or digital radio stations in some embodiments. Other audio sources may comprise components for playing Internet radio stations compact discs digital audio files audible alerts and notifications produced by one or more computing devices and any other sound reproducible from a signal. In some embodiments the audio sources may include components similar to those described above in relation to the audio streaming device . In such embodiments the audio sources may include a processor a memory an I O subsystem a data storage device communication circuitry and one or more peripheral devices. The audio sources may also include audio input output circuitry to facilitate communications with the audio streaming device . To do so the audio input output circuitry may be communicatively coupled to the audio streaming device via a number of signal links. These signal paths may be embodied as any type of signal link capable of facilitating communication between the audio input output circuitry of the one or more audio sources and the audio streaming device . For example the signal links may be embodied as any number of audio jacks wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus intervening devices and or the like. It should be understood that although the audio sources are shown as being separate from the audio streaming device in the illustrative embodiment of one or more of the audio sources may form a part of the audio streaming device in other embodiments. For example in embodiments where the audio source is embodied as an FM receiver the FM receiver may form a part of the audio streaming device .

Referring now to one embodiment of a software environment of the audio streaming device includes an audio input module a communication module an authentication module a streaming policy enforcement module a streaming policy database a user interface module and a streaming module . Of course it should be appreciated that the audio streaming device may include other components sub components modules and devices commonly found in an audio streaming device which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

In use the communication module facilitates communications with the one or more smart headsets using Bluetooth communication protocols. It should be understood that although Bluetooth communication protocols are used in the illustrative embodiment other short range communication protocols may be used in other embodiments.

The communication module may be communicatively coupled with the authentication module to facilitate pairing and joining with the one or more smart headsets . In use the authentication module may exchange authentication credentials with the one or more smart headsets to establish a secure communication channel therebetween. It should be understood that although authentication module exchanges separate authentication credentials with each smart headset in the illustrative embodiment the authentication module may use any suitable mechanism for exchanging any number of authentication credentials with the one or more smart headsets .

The streaming policy database may be stored in the data storage device of the audio streaming device and store a streaming policy and or one or more rules to be enforced when streaming an audio channel to one or more of the smart headsets . In some embodiments the streaming policy database may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more tables to rules and or information corresponding to each smart headset and each audio channel of the audio sources .

The audio input module may be communicatively coupled to one or more audio sources via a number of signal paths. In use the audio input module provides an interface to receive one or more separate audio channels from the one or more audio sources . In some embodiments the audio input module may be communicatively coupled to one or more audio jacks wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus and or intervening devices of the audio streaming device .

The streaming policy enforcement module is communicatively coupled to the audio input module and the streaming policy database . In use the streaming policy enforcement module maps one or more audio channels to the one or more smart headsets as a function of the streaming policy stored in the streaming policy database . For example as described in greater detail below with reference to the streaming policy enforcement module may retrieve a streaming policy from the streaming policy database . In such embodiments the streaming policy may comprise one or more rules that define which audio channels should be streamed to which smart headsets . Additionally or alternatively the streaming policy enforcement module may also enforce other rules dictating how one or more audio channels should be streamed to one or more of the smart headsets .

To facilitate interactions with the audio streaming device the user interface module may generate one or more user interfaces to be presented i.e. through a display of the audio streaming device to a user of the device. For instance in some embodiments the user interface module may generate one or more user interfaces to enable the user to create and or modify one or more rules of a streaming policy to be enforced by the streaming policy enforcement module . Additionally or alternatively in other embodiments the user interface module may also generate one or more user interfaces to facilitate the pairing and joining of the one or more smart headsets with the audio streaming device .

The streaming module is communicatively coupled to the streaming policy enforcement module and the communication module . In use the streaming module may encode each audio channel using the authentication credentials for each associated smart headset as a function of the streaming policy enforced by the streaming policy enforcement module . After encoding each audio channel the streaming module may stream the encoded audio channels to one or more of the smart headsets .

Referring now to in use the audio streaming device may execute a method for streaming the output of the one or more audio sources to the one or more smart headsets . The method begins with block in which the audio streaming device determines whether multi stream multipoint jack functionality has been enabled. To do so the audio streaming device may determine whether a user of the device has invoked multi stream multipoint jack functionality on the audio streaming device . In some embodiments the audio streaming device may detect a signal generated in response to the activation of one or more push button switches by the user. In such embodiments the generated signal may be indicative of a request to invoke multi stream multipoint jack functionality on the audio streaming device . In some embodiments the one or more push button switches may be embodied as physical push button switches. In other embodiments however the one or more push button switches may be embodied as soft switches capacitive or resistive switches other electrical type switches non mechanical switches or other buttons switches or other appropriate circuitry usable by a user to interact with the audio streaming device . It should be understood that in other embodiments the audio streaming device may not include push button switches for requesting activation of multi stream multipoint jack functionality. In such embodiments the audio streaming device may determine that a user of the device invoked multi stream multipoint jack functionality from one or more selections received from a user interface UI displayed on for example the display to the user.

In block the audio streaming device may determine whether the device is paired with one or more of the smart headsets . In embodiments in which the audio streaming device and the one or more smart headsets comprise short range transceivers the one or more smart headsets may be located in proximity to the audio streaming device . For example in one illustrative embodiment the audio streaming device communicates with the one or more smart headsets using Bluetooth communication channels. In such embodiments the one or more smart headsets may be located within a proximity or distance suitable for communicating via Bluetooth communication channels.

The audio streaming device may determine whether the device is already paired with one or more smart headsets located in the vicinity of the device. To do so the audio streaming device may receive one or more transmissions from a smart headset located in the vicinity of the device. The one or more transmissions may comprise information that identifies the smart headset to the audio streaming device . The audio streaming device may use the identity information to determine whether the device previously paired with that particular smart headset . If at block the audio streaming device determines that it is already paired with the one or more smart headsets located in the visibility the method advances to block . Otherwise the method advances to block in which the audio streaming device performs a pairing procedure with the one or more smart headsets .

After pairing with one or more smart headsets located in the vicinity the audio streaming device joins with the one or more smart headsets . To do so the audio streaming device in block exchanges authentication credentials with the one or more smart headsets and establishes a secure communication channel therebetween. It should be understood that while the audio streaming device exchanges separate authentication credentials with each smart headset to be joined in one illustrative embodiment the audio streaming device may use any suitable mechanism for exchanging any number of authentication credentials with the one or more smart headsets in other embodiments. Upon joining with the one or more smart headsets in vicinity the method advances to block .

In block the audio streaming device may retrieve a streaming policy from the data storage device . In some embodiments the streaming policy may comprise one or more rules associated with each smart headset joined with the audio streaming device . In other embodiments the streaming policy may comprise one or more rules associated with a group of the smart headsets . It should be understood that in some embodiments the streaming policy and the rules enable a user to selectively direct the streaming of the audio channels to the one or more smart headsets . Regardless the rules of the streaming policy may include output settings priority settings privacy settings and or any other settings that facilitate streaming output of the one or more audio sources to the one or more smart headsets . For example in some embodiments a rule of the streaming policy may dictate that two or more audio channels may be simultaneously streamed to a single smart headset . In other embodiments another rule of the streaming policy may dictate that an audio channel being streamed to one or more smart headsets should be blocked while another higher priority audio channel is being streamed to the same one or more smart headsets . Other rules of the streaming policy may dictate that one audio channel should be streamed to a first smart headset while another audio channel should be streamed to a second smart headset that an audio channel may be streamed to one smart headset but should not be streamed to another smart headset to maintain privacy or that two or more separate audio channels should be mixed and then streamed to one or more of the smart headsets .

Additionally or alternatively the audio streaming device may in block generate or modify the streaming policy and or associated rules in some embodiments. For example in the event that a streaming policy does not exist yet in the data storage device or if rules have not yet been defined for a newly paired smart headset the audio streaming device may provide a user interface to the user. The user may in those embodiments interact with the user interface to generate the streaming policy and or rules for one or more of the smart headsets . It should be understood that in some illustrative embodiments the audio streaming device may provide a user interface to facilitate modifying the streaming policy and or the rules for the one or more smart headsets .

After retrieving the streaming policy from the data storage device the audio streaming device associates in block one or more audio channels from the one or more audio sources as a function of the streaming policy and the rules associated therewith. To do so the audio streaming device may map one or more audio channels e.g. audio outputs from the audio sources to the one or more smart headsets according to the streaming policy. For example in an illustrative embodiment the audio streaming device may associate a first audio channel with two separate smart headsets i.e. a first smart headset and a second smart headset . In another illustrative embodiment the audio streaming device may associate two separate audio channels with a single smart headset i.e. the first smart headset . It should be understood that in other illustrative embodiments the audio streaming device may associate the audio channels with the one or more smart headsets in any number of different ways according to the streaming policy.

In some embodiments the audio streaming device may map one or more audio channels e.g. audio outputs to the one or more smart headsets by generating a table or any other suitable data structure for mapping a particular audio channel to a particular smart headset . For example in an illustrative embodiment the audio streaming device may generate a table comprising a listing of each audio source that is currently connected to the audio streaming device the audio channels e.g. audio output available from each connected audio source and the smart headset s currently connected to the audio streaming device . In some embodiments the table may also include a unique logical address assigned to each audio source currently connected to the audio streaming device a unique logical address or logical channel number assigned to each smart headset currently connected to the audio streaming device and a unique logical address assigned to each audio channel provided by each audio source currently connected to the audio streaming device . In use the audio streaming device of such embodiments may utilize the table to map i.e. associate a particular audio channel with a particular smart headset using the logical address of the audio channel and the logical channel number of the smart headset . It should be understood however that any suitable mechanism for mapping any number of audio sources and or audio channels to any number of smart headsets may be used instead.

As discussed above in some embodiments the streaming policy may include rules that define a privacy setting for a particular audio channel or smart headset . In block to facilitate enforcing the privacy setting for the particular audio channel the audio streaming device may apply the privacy setting to the particular audio channel. To do so the audio streaming device may encrypt the audio channel using one or more encryption keys stored in the memory device and or the data storage device of the audio streaming device which may be stored in those devices in an encrypted state . It should be understood that the audio streaming device may use any suitable encryption technique to encrypt the audio channel. For instance the audio streaming device may use one or more symmetric key algorithms i.e. shared keys asymmetric key algorithms i.e. public private key pair or any other suitable encryption mechanism to encrypt the audio channel to ensure privacy. In such embodiments it should be understood that a corresponding encryption and or decryption key may be stored on one or more authorized smart headsets in order to decrypt the private audio channel.

Referring back to block after associating the one or more audio channels with the one or more smart headsets the method advances to block in which each audio channel may be streamed to the one or more smart headsets associated therewith. In some illustrative embodiments the audio streaming device streams each audio channel to each associated smart headset over the secure communication channel established therebetween. To do so the audio streaming device may encode each audio channel using the authentication credentials for each associated smart headset . Upon receipt of the audio channel streamed from the audio streaming device the receiving smart headset may reproduce the sounds generated by a particular audio source .

In some embodiments the audio streaming device may in block further transmit one or more configuration settings or properties to the smart headsets . For example the audio streaming device may transmit volume properties to one or more of the smart headsets . Upon receipt the one or more smart headsets may apply i.e. set a preference modify a setting etc. the volume properties of the smart headset. Additionally or alternatively the audio streaming device may also transmit descriptive information i.e. the currently connected audio source the title of a song currently being streamed the name of the audio channel that the user is currently listening to etc. corresponding to the audio channel currently being streamed to a particular smart headset . It should be understood that any number of configuration settings properties commands and or information may be sent to the smart headsets by the audio streaming device .

Additionally in some embodiments the smart headsets comprise functionality for controlling one or more aspects of an audio channel streamed from the audio streaming device . For example one of more of the smart headsets may comprise a Bluetooth Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP which enables the smart headset to control playback i.e. play pause stop fast forward reverse etc. of the audio channel streamed from the audio streaming device . In another illustrative embodiment the smart headsets may comprise functionality for changing the audio source or the audio channel currently being streamed to a particular smart headset . For example in such embodiments a particular smart headset may comprise functionality that enables a user to select a new audio source to connect to select a new audio channel to receive change to a disc on an audio source skip to the next song in a playlist on an audio source skip to the next song of a compact disc playing on an audio source switch radio stations on an audio source and or any suitable command for controlling the playback or content being streamed from an audio source by the audio streaming device . It should be understood that in such embodiments the audio streaming device may be used as a proxy between the smart headsets and the audio sources . To do so the audio streaming device may receive the command or playback control request from one or more of the smart headsets and retransmit e.g. forward those commands and or requests to the appropriate audio source for further processing.

While the disclosure has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description such an illustration and description is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character it being understood that only illustrative embodiments have been shown and described and that all changes and modifications consistent with the disclosure and recited claims are desired to be protected.

