---

title: Notification method and electronic device
abstract: An operation method and a device related to emergency situations are provided. A method for controlling an electronic device includes determining a designated situation, based on at least one piece of information obtained from outside the electronic device and information obtained from at least one sensor of the electronic device, determining features corresponding to the designated situation, and controlling the electronic device, based on at least one of the features and user status information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652964&OS=09652964&RS=09652964
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09652964
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150218
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 21 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0020970 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Currently many kinds of natural disasters such as storms earthquakes and tsunamis occur due to the effects of climate change. As such the frequency of natural disasters have increased. In addition to the natural disasters emergency situations such as distress and or traffic accidents also jeopardize the safety of individuals.

Some information on an occurring natural disaster may be provided from forecast companies such as WeatherCast.

Currently there is a user s demand for a service that detects a user in danger or in an emergency situation and provides emergency management. In order to protect life and assure safety in emergency situations such as natural disasters accidents and distress it is desired to recognize an emergency situation in advance and quickly inform other users of the emergency situation. However most hazards or emergency situations such as natural disasters accidents and distress are unpredictable by users.

Although services informing a user of information on natural disasters are provided by weathercast servers these services are limited to providing simple information and are likely do not differentiated from the typical weather report. Accordingly since the existing disaster information services have a limited function of raising an alarm with simple disaster information a user is forced to inconveniently search for detailed information and or ask for help by himself in order to recognize the hazard or request help.

Accordingly a means of determining a designated situation based on at least one piece of information obtained from the outside or information obtained from at least one sensor that is functionally connected with an electronic device determining features related to the designated situation and controlling the electronic device based on at least one of the features or user status information is desired.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method for controlling an electronic device is provided. The method includes determining a designated situation based on at least one piece of information obtained from outside the electronic device and information obtained from at least one sensor of the electronic device determining features corresponding to the designated situation and controlling the electronic device based on at least one of the features and user status information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The device includes a memory configured to store at least one piece of information related to functions of applications and a controller configured to determine a designated situation based on at least one piece of information obtained from outside the electronic device and information obtained from at least one sensor of the electronic device to determine features corresponding to the designated situation and to control the electronic device based on at least one of the features or user status information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure in a computer readable recording medium for storing a program is provided. The medium includes a first instruction set programmed to determine a designated situation based on at least one piece of information obtained from the outside the electronic device and information obtained from at least one sensor of the electronic device a second instruction set programmed to determine features corresponding to the designated situation and a third instruction set programmed to control the electronic device based on at least one of the features and user status information.

In addition the present disclosure may include various embodiments within the scope of the disclosure.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

In the present disclosure expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second etc. may modify various elements. However such elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose to distinguish an element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be also termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In the case where a component is referred to as being connected or accessed to other component it should be understood that not only the component is directly connected or accessed to the other component but also there may exist another component between them. Meanwhile in the case where a component is referred to as being directly connected or directly accessed to other component it should be understood that there is no component therebetween.

The terms used in the present disclosure are only used to describe specific embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical and scientific terms have the same meaning as commonly understood by those of skill in the art to which the present disclosure pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

Electronic devices according to the present disclosure may adopt a notification service function. For example the electronic devices may include at least one of smart phones tablet Personal Computers PCs mobile phones video phones e book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers Personal Digital Assistants PDAs Portable Multimedia Players PMPs MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras wearable devices e.g. Head Mounted Devices HMDs such as electronic glasses electronic clothes electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic appcessories electronic tattoos or smart watches.

According to another embodiment the electronic devices may be smart home appliances adopting a notification service function. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions Digital Video Disk DVD players audio players refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwaves washing machines air purifiers set top boxes TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders or electronic frames.

According to another embodiment the electronic devices may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI a Computed Tomography CT machine and an ultrasonic machine navigation devices Global Positioning System GPS receivers Event Data Recorders EDR Flight Data Recorders FDR vehicle infotainment devices electronic devices for ships e.g. navigation devices for ships and gyro compasses avionics security devices automotive head units robots for home or industry Automatic Teller Machines ATMs in banks or Point Of Sale POS devices in shops.

According to another embodiment the electronic devices may include at least one of furniture or a part of a building structure having a notification service function electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring equipment e.g. equipment for a water supply electricity natural gas or radio waves . Electronic devices according to the present disclosure may be one or more combinations of the above described devices. In addition electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be flexible devices. Further it is obvious to those skilled in the art that electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the above described devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses another electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a notification service control module but is not limited thereto.

The bus may be a circuit to connect the above described elements with each other and to transfer a communication e.g. control messages between the above described elements.

The processor may receive instructions from the above described elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface the notification service control module and the like through for example the bus may decode the received instructions and perform calculation or data processing according to the decoded instructions.

The memory may store instructions and or data received from the processor and or other elements e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface the message management module and the like or generated by the processor and or other elements. The memory may include programming modules such as for example a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API or applications . Each of the programming modules may be configured with software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The memory may include at least some pieces of information related to application functions.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like which are used in performing operations or functions implemented by other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the applications . Further the kernel may provide interfaces by which the middleware the API or the applications may access each element of the electronic device for control or management.

The middleware may play an intermediate role between the API or the applications and the kernel to communicate with each other for transmission and reception of data. Further in relation to requests for operation received from the applications the middleware may control e.g. scheduling or load balancing the requests by for example determining priority for using system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like of the electronic device with respect to at least one of the applications .

The API is an interface by which the applications controls functions provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function e.g. instructions for file control window control image processing or text control.

According to various embodiments the applications may include a SMS MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring the amount of exercise or blood sugar an environmental information application e.g. an application for providing atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature and the like. Additionally or alternatively the applications may be an application related to the exchange of information between the electronic device and external electronic devices e.g. an electronic device . The information exchange related application may include for example a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transferring notification information generated in other applications e.g. the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environmental information application of the electronic device to an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device and provide the same to a user. The device management application may manage e.g. install delete and or update for example at least some functions e.g. turning the external electronic device or some elements thereof on or off or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device that communicates with the electronic device applications performed in the external electronic device or services e.g. a phone call service or a messaging service provided in the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments the applications may include applications which are designated according to the property e.g. the type of electronic device of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is an MP3 player the applications may include applications related to reproduction of music. Likewise if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the applications may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application may include at least one of application designated in the electronic device and or applications received from external electronic devices e.g. a server or the electronic device .

The input output interface may transfer instructions or data input by a user through input output devices e.g. sensors keyboards or touch screens to the processor the memory the communication interface and or the notification service control module through for example the bus . For example the input output interface may provide data on a user s touch input through a touch screen to the processor . For example instructions and or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface and or the notification service control module through the bus may be output through the input output devices e.g. speakers or displays . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed by the processor to a user through a speaker.

The display may display various pieces of information e.g. multimedia data and or text data to a user.

The communication interface may perform communication connection between the electronic device and external electronic devices e.g. the electronic device and or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected with a network through wireless communication and or wired communication to communicate with the external electronic device. The wireless communication may include at least one scheme of Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC a Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The wired communication may include at least one of a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network may be a telecommunication network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network but is not limited thereto. According to an embodiment protocols a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol and or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and external electronic devices may be provided by at least one of the applications the API the middleware the kernel and or the communication interface .

The notification service control module may process at least some of the information obtained from other elements e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface or the communication interface and provide the same to a user in various manners. For example the notification service control module may control at least some functions of the electronic device by using the processor and or independently so that the electronic device may interwork with other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device and or the server . Additional information on the notification service control module may be provided with reference to described later.

Referring to the notification service control module may include a situation determination module a notification module and an interworking control module . The notification module may include at least one of a message generation module a power control module and a situation recording module .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the notification service control module may obtain information on the emergency situation of a user through the electronic device . The notification service control module may receive situation information from the outside and or may receive information on an emergency situation through sensors which are functionally connected with the electronic device and detect a temperature a sound a fire a fall and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure based on at least one piece of information obtained from the outside and or information obtained from at least one sensor that is functionally connected to the electronic device the controller or processor determines a designated situation and features related to the designated situation and controls the electronic device on the basis of at least one of the features and or user status information. In addition the controller may further include a sensor unit including at least one sensor for detecting the designated situation. The controller may determine the designated situation by using at least one of the type of the designated situation the degree of the designated situation and the duration of the designated situation. The controller may automatically configure emergency situation notification messages according to the degree of the designated situation. Also the emergency situation notification message may be configured to be different in at least one of a transmission period the number of times of transmission a transmission frequency a transmission time and a transmission mode and may include at least one of the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group user designated contact information a user designated group and a rescue party close to the current location of a user. The controller may configure the emergency situation notification message by using at least one of a method for notifying of the designated situation a configuration of a screen image a menu configuration an application control and or a request for help. The controller may adjust the security level and or a display content of a locked screen of the electronic device to be different. When an emergency situation is determined the controller may notify of the designated situation to at least one of other users through a running application and the at least one of other users may be determined by using at least one of the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group user designated contact information a user designated group and a rescue party close to the current location of a user. The controller may control power consumption by activating a function necessary for notifying of the designated situation to at least one user.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine an emergency situation on the basis of at least one piece of information obtained from the outside or information obtained from at least one sensor that is functionally connected with the electronic device and may determine the type or features of emergency situation. The situation determination module may determine features such as the type of emergency situation the type of hazard the degree of hazard the duration of hazard and the like through the obtained information. The situation determination module may determine an emergency situation. The situation determination module may determine features of hazard through the obtained hazard information. Alternatively or additionally the situation determination module may determine an emergency situation on the basis of at least one piece of information obtained from the outside or information obtained from at least one sensor that is functionally connected with the electronic device . The situation determination module may collect location information. The location information may be obtained through for example GPS or base stations not shown .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the notification module may include at least one of a message generation module a power control module and a situation recording module . The notification module may transmit emergency situation notification messages which are generated to be different according to the degree of the emergency situation and or modes to the electronic device of at least one of other users in at least one different manner of a transmission period the number of times of transmission and a mode. When the electronic device is in a warning mode the notification module may transmit an emergency situation notification message with a short period of transmission and a high frequency of transmission. The notification module may transmit an emergency situation notification message to an electronic device of at least one of other users regardless of the above mode. The notification module may automatically configure the emergency situation notification messages according to the degree of emergency situation and transmit the same to at least one of other users. The notification module may transfer emergency situation notification messages which are configured to be different from each other according to a mode or regardless of a mode. The emergency situation notification messages may be divided into pieces and transferred according to conditions of a network environment and or configuration and may be attached with pictures voices videos and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the message generation module may generate emergency situation notification messages corresponding to each mode of the electronic device . The generated emergency situation notification message may include different information depending on the mode. The message generation module may configure emergency situation notification messages to be different depending on the degree of the emergency situation. The message generation module may automatically configure emergency situation notification messages immediately after an emergency situation is determined. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may automatically configure emergency situation notification messages according to a method of controlling an electronic device in response to determination of an emergency situation. The message generation module may configure emergency situation notification messages to be different according to a method of transferring emergency situation notification messages at least one of other users who receive emergency situation notification messages or the description of the emergency situation.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the power control module may control an electronic device in order to minimize power consumption thereof in an emergency situation. When a user is in an emergency situation due to a fall the power control module may convert an electronic device to a low power mode in order to use the electronic device for a long time. In an emergency situation the power control module may convert most functions except for a function necessary for notifying of an emergency situation to at least one user to a deactivation state to thereby reduce power consumption.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the interworking control module may control the interworking between the situation determination module and the notification module which belong to the notification service control module . The interworking control module may control the interworking of the message generation module the power control module or the situation recording module . The interworking control module may be configured to perform at least one operation of monitoring operation states of other applications installed in an auxiliary electronic device and providing a warning message to a user in response to a request for deletion of at least one application.

Referring to an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may obtain information by which a designated situation may be determined. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the designated situation may include emergency situations and or emergency causes to a user. Such information may be obtained through at least one sensor provided in an electronic device. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the information may be obtained through sensors e.g. gears which are functionally connected with an electronic device and or external devices e.g. servers and the second electronic device . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may receive the information by filtering the same in a device adopting at least one sensor and or in external devices. For example in a case of earthquakes the electronic device may be configured to receive only information on a magnitude more than 5.0 and an area within 100 km of the epicenter. The situation recording module may store the information on the emergency situation in the memory .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when such a situation is determined by the situation determination module the notification service control module may transfer information on the determined situation to the notification module . The notification module may provide various services in response to the situation determined by the situation determination module . The various services may include a disaster notification an emergency mode and or safety protection. The various services may include notifying of disasters requesting help minimizing power consumption of an electronic device transmitting messages of emergency situations photographing the scene of a disaster and or recording voices in the disaster.

For example the service of notifying of disasters may inform of the occurrence of disasters and provide a request for emergency help and may be output through various means such as a dashboard a notice a widget and the like. In addition the service of notifying of disasters may be output through various algorithms such as a warning a watch a distance a degree and or a disaster display and the output information may be transmitted to a disaster notification server. The disaster notification server may transmit the information to a server of the manufacturer of the electronic device. This disaster occurrence notification may be transmitted from the disaster notification server or the server of the manufacturer.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an emergency mode refers to a mode in which power consumption of an electronic device is minimized a user experience of an electronic device is optimized to be thereby provided and current location information may be simply transmitted. The emergency mode may operate a display of an electronic device in a super power saving mode. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the emergency mode may activate functions necessary for minimizing a user s input and activate minimum functions such as GPS a siren a phone call a flash and the like. In the emergency mode an emergency situation may be detected by sensing a sudden impact and or through at least one sensor such as an acceleration sensor. The emergency mode may be activated by various pieces of information voice a key input .

Further in the service of safety protection an emergency message may be transmitted in an emergency situation the scene of disaster may be photographed by at least one camera provided in an electronic device or voices in the disaster may be recorded through a microphone.

Referring to a server e.g. CP that provides information on disasters may transmit information to at least one server group provided by a manufacturer of an electronic device and at least one server and of the server group may transmit disaster information to various applications and of an electronic device. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least one server and of the server group may collect the received information and filter the collected information to thereby transmit the same to at least one electronic device that is provided with services from the manufacturer.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the server may transmit weather information to the disaster server of the server group and the disaster server may provide the information to the push server . The push server may transmit disaster information to the various applications and of an electronic device.

Referring to at least one piece of information may be obtained in order to determine a designated situation in operation . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine the designated situation based on at least one piece of information obtained from the outside or information obtained from at least one sensor that is functionally connected with the electronic device. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the situation may include various situations which endanger the safety of a user such as emergency situations and or disaster situations. The determination may be made by at least one of the type of designated situation the degree of the designated situation and the duration of the designated situation. The notification service control module may obtain information on an emergency situation of a user through an electronic device . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the notification service control module may receive information on an emergency situation from the outside and or through sensors which are functionally connected with the electronic device and detect a temperature a sound a fire a fall and the like. These sensors may include at least one of a sensor for detecting a temperature a sensor for detecting illuminance a sensor for detecting a sound a sensor for detecting an impact a sensor for detecting an earthquake a sensor for detecting a storm a sensor for detecting a fall and the like. The notification service control module may obtain information on an emergency situation through various other sensors for detecting emergency situations as well as the above described sensors.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device e.g. the electronic device may perform an operation of determining features related to a designated situation in operation . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine a designated situation e.g. an emergency situation or designated elements e.g. emergency elements on the basis of at least one piece of information obtained from the outside and or information obtained from at least one sensor that is functionally connected with the electronic device to thereby determine the type and or features of the emergency situation. The situation determination module may determine features such as the type of emergency situation the type of hazard the degree of hazard the duration of hazard and the like through the obtained information. The features related to the designated situation refer to situations which endanger a user and may include some natural disasters. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the natural disasters may include at least one of earthquakes storms volcanic eruptions floods fires falls and accidents. The following Table 1 shows information to determine emergency situations.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the Table 1 may include information on various other emergency situations as well as the above described emergency situations and may include the type of emergency situation the type of hazard the degree of hazard and the duration of hazard. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine the degree of emergency through the information. The information may be obtained through at least one sensor provided in an electronic device sensors e.g. a gear that is functionally connected with the electronic device and external devices e.g. servers and the second electronic device . Further the electronic device may receive the information that is filtered by at least one sensor or external devices.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be controlled based on at least some features determined in the operation and or some pieces of user status information in operation . The operation may include an operation of determining the degree of emergency of the designated situation to be different with respect to a user according to the user status information. The operation may include an operation of classifying the degree of emergency of the designated situation and an operation of controlling the electronic device according to the classified degree of emergency. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the operation may include an operation of adjusting a security level or a display content of a locked screen of the electronic device. The operation may include an operation of configuring emergency situation notification messages to be different in at least one of the description of emergency situation receivers of emergency situation notification messages and a method of transferring emergency situation notification messages according to the degree of emergency and transmitting the emergency situation notification messages. The operation of transmitting the emergency situation notification message may include an operation of configuring at least one of a transmission period the number of times of transmission a transmission frequency transmission time and a transmission mode to be different and the emergency situation notification message may be determined by including the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group user designated contact information a user designated group and or a rescue party close to the current location of a user. The emergency situation notification message may be configured by using at least one of a method of notifying of a designated situation a configuration of a screen image a configuration of a menu an application control and a request for help. The operation may include an operation of configuring emergency situation notification messages to be different in at least one of the description of emergency situation receivers of emergency situation notification messages and a method of transferring emergency situation notification messages according to the degree of emergency to thereby transmit the emergency situation notification messages.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the user status may be determined by using at least one of current location information of the electronic device surrounding information current time information season information hazard duration information gender of a user or user status information. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a controller may differently control the electronic device based on at least some detected changes of user status information. The controller may determine the designated situation again when the change of user status information is not detected for a predetermined time. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the controller may determine the degree of emergency by considering the type of emergency situation the type of hazard the degree of hazard the duration of hazard and the like. In addition the controller may differently control the electronic device on the basis of the degree of emergency determined according to an emergency situation and user status information. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the operation of controlling the electronic device on the basis of the determined features and the user status information the electronic device may be controlled to correspond to at least one of an emergency situation and user status information.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure modes of the electronic device may be controlled for at least one of a method of notifying a designated situation a configuration of a screen image a configuration of a menu an application control and a request for help. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may change a security level of the electronic device in response to the determined emergency situation and the security level may be determined according to at least one of the emergency situation and the user status information. The controller may change information displayed in a screen in addition to the security level. For example the controller may automatically generate a content displayed in a locked screen and or display a predetermined content therein.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may control the electronic device according to the determined degree of the emergency. In addition the controller may operate the electronic device according to each function as well as the degree of emergency. For example the controller may operate the electronic device in various modes such as a warning mode a caution mode and or an attention mode according to the determined degree of emergency. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may generate emergency situation notification messages to correspond to the converted each mode. The generated emergency situation notification message may include different information according to the modes. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may configure emergency situation notification messages to be different according to the degree of emergency. For example when the electronic device enters a warning mode in a high level emergency situation the emergency situation notification message may include at least one of a map showing the area of the an emergency situation information on the emergency situation information for preventing and avoiding the emergency situation information on at least one of other users to be notified of the emergency situation of a user information for a request for help and information showing that the emergency situation has ended. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the degree of emergency is between the warning mode and the attention mode the electronic device may be converted to a caution mode. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the caution mode the emergency situation notification message may include at least one of information on the emergency situation news about the emergency situation and information that urgently notifies the emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the degree of emergency is less than the caution mode the electronic device may be converted to the attention mode. In the attention mode the emergency situation notification message may include at least one of information on the emergency situation and news about the emergency situation.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the notification module may configure the emergency situation notification message to be different in at least one of a transmission period a transmission time a transmission frequency the number of times of transmission and a transmission mode and transmit the same to at least one electronic device of other users. For example the notification module may make the transmission period short and the transmission frequency high to thereby transmit the emergency situation notification message in a warning mode of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the notification module may transmit the emergency situation notification message to at least one electronic device of other users regardless of the modes.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the notification module may automatically configure the emergency situation notification message according to the degree of the designated situation and transmit the same to at least one of other users. The message generation module may automatically generate the emergency situation notification message immediately after the emergency situation is determined. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may automatically configure the emergency situation notification message according to a method of controlling the electronic device in response to the determination of the emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may select and or determine at least one of the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group user designated contact information a user designated group and a rescue party close to the current location of a user in order to select at least one of other users to receive the emergency situation notification message. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may configure the emergency situation notification messages to be different according to a method of transferring the emergency situation notification messages at least one of other users who receive the emergency situation notification messages and or the description of the emergency situation. In addition the notification module may transmit the emergency situation notification messages configured to be different according to the modes or regardless of the modes.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the emergency situation notification message may be divided into pieces and transferred according to conditions of a network environment or configuration and may be attached with pictures voices videos and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when feedback in response to transmission of the emergency situation notification message is not generated the emergency situation notification message may be re transmitted to another user. When re transmitting the emergency situation notification message the emergency situation notification message with a different configuration and content may be transmitted. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure message receiver information may be scheduled in the order of emergency contact information the latest contact information and a designated group to be thereby transmitted. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the degree of the emergency is re determined a configuration and or a method of transmitting messages may be re configured.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may identify a current running application in the electronic device in order to transmit emergency situation notification messages to at least one of other users who are selected or determined. This application may include an application adopting a communication function to notify at least one of other users of an emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may notify at least one of other users of an emergency situation through a current running application. The application may include at least one of an application for transmitting and receiving text and or voice information to and from at least one of the other users and a communication module provided in the electronic device . The communication module may include a text messaging function a group chatting function and voice communication function. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may notify at least one of other users of the emergency situation through at least one of Wi Fi identifiers Bluetooth identifiers and NFC identifiers. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the controller may notify other users of the emergency situation through other identifiers according to various communication protocols for communication with external devices as well as the Wi Fi Bluetooth and NFC.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the notification service control module and or the processor may determine a designated situation based on at least one piece of information obtained from the outside or information obtained from at least one sensor that is functionally connected with the electronic device determine features related to the designated situation and control the electronic device on the basis of at least one of the features or user status information. The operation of determining the designated situation may be performed through at least one of the type of the designated situation the degree of the designated situation and the duration of the designated situation. The operation of controlling the electronic device may include an operation of determining the degree of emergency of the designated situation to be different according to the user status information. At least one of the notification service control module and the processor may determine whether a method for controlling the electronic device should be changed based on at least some detected changes of user status information. At least one of the notification service control module and the processor may re determine the designated situation when the change of user status information is not detected at a predetermined time. The user status may be determined by using at least one of current location information of the electronic device surrounding information current time information season information hazard duration information gender of a user and user status information.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the operation of controlling the electronic device may include an operation of classifying the degree of emergency of the designated situation and an operation of controlling the electronic device according to the classified degree of emergency. The operation of controlling the electronic device may include an operation of configuring emergency situation notification messages to be different in at least one of the description of emergency situation receivers of emergency situation notification messages and a method of transferring emergency situation notification messages according to the degree of emergency and transmitting the emergency situation notification messages. The operation of transmitting the emergency situation notification message may include an operation of configuring at least one of a transmission period the number of times of transmission a transmission frequency transmission time and a transmission mode to be different and the emergency situation notification message may be determined by including the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group user designated contact information a user designated group and or a rescue party close to the current location of a user. The emergency situation notification message may be configured by using at least one of a method of notifying the designated situation a configuration of a screen image a configuration of a menu an application control and a request for help. The operation of controlling the electronic device may include an operation of adjusting a security level and or displaying content of a locked screen of the electronic device. The operation of controlling the electronic device may include an operation of notifying of the designated situation through a running application. The features related to the designated situation refer to situations which endanger the life or the safety of a user and may include at least one of natural disasters and accidents.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an operation of generating an identifier of the electronic device on the basis of at least one of the features or the user status information and an operation of changing the generated identifier to correspond to the designated situation are further included.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the situation determination module may collect location information in operation . The location information may be obtained through GPS or base stations not shown . Further the location information may be obtained in any operation among a plurality of operations shown in .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine an emergency situation in operation . For example the situation determination module may determine the emergency situation by using at least one of disaster notification messages at least one sensor functionally connected with the electronic device or hazard information received from at least one of other electronic devices. Alternatively or additionally according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine the emergency situation based on at least one piece of information obtained from the outside or information obtained from at least one sensor that is functionally connected with the electronic device. The situation determination module may analyze causes of emergency situations.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine the degree of emergency at the current location in operation . The situation determination module may determine information related to the current location of the electronic device through a Point of Interest POI a GPS and cell IDs. For example the situation determination module may re determine the degree of emergency when the change of location is detected. For example the situation determination module may re determine the degree of emergency when the change is not detected for a predetermined time. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the degree of emergency may be determined through at least one of information related to the current location of a user current time the wearing of other devices the connection of other devices duration of hazard surrounding environmental information gender of a user age of a user or a health status of a user. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine the degree of emergency according to the degree by which the emergency situation affects a user. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may convert the mode of the electronic device to a warning mode a caution mode or an attention mode according to the degree of emergency. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may configure the emergency situation notification messages according to the degree of emergency. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the notification module may transmit the emergency situation notification messages configured to be different to at least one of other users. The at least one of other users may include at least one of the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group a user designated group a rescue party close to the current location of the electronic device or a rescue party of the corresponding nation. The at least one of other users may include various users who may help in an emergency situation by transmitting the emergency situation notification message as well as the above described users.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when feedback related to transmission of the emergency situation notification message is not generated the emergency situation notification message may be re transmitted to another user. When re transmitting the emergency situation notification message the emergency situation notification message with a different configuration and content may be transmitted. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure message receiver information may be scheduled in the order of emergency contact information the latest contact information and a designated group to be thereby transmitted. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the degree of emergency is re determined a configuration or a method of transmitting messages may be re configured.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be controlled according to the determined degree of emergency in operation . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may control the electronic device in response to the determined degree of emergency. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may control the mode of electronic device for at least one of a notification of an emergency situation a configuration of screen image a control of a current running application or a request for help in response to the determined degree of emergency. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may change the security level of the electronic device in response to the determined emergency situation and the security level may be changed according to at least one of the emergency situations or user status information. The security level may be adjusted in a manner of for example locking finger prints image locked screen the state of nothing or in a manner of shortening the length of a password or a pattern. For example a password of five digits instead of ten digits may be required for the release. In addition apart from the operation of adjusting the security level information may be displayed in the locked screen. The displayed information may be predetermined by a user. Alternatively some pieces of information among information stored in the terminal such as user health information and family contact information may be displayed.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may manage and control the electronic device in different modes according to the determined degree of emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may convert the electronic device to a warning mode a caution mode or an attention mode according to the degree of emergency. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may generate emergency situation notification messages corresponding to each of the converted modes. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the generated emergency situation notification messages may include different information according to the modes. The modes refer to different operations of the electronic device and the mode may be variously named.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may configure the emergency situation notification messages to be different information according to the degree of emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the notification module may transmit the emergency situation notification messages which are generated to be different according to the degree of emergency situation or modes to the electronic device of at least one of other users in at least one different manner of a transmission period the number of times of transmission or a mode. For example when the electronic device is in a warning mode the controller may transmit the emergency situation notification message with a short period of transmission and a high frequency of transmission.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may automatically configure the emergency situation notification messages according to the degree of emergency situation and transmit the same to at least one of other users. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may automatically configure emergency situation notification messages immediately after an emergency situation is determined. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may select or determine at least one of the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group user designated contact information a user designated group or a rescue party close to the current location of a user in order to select at least one of other users to receive the emergency situation notification message. The message generation module may automatically configure emergency situation notification messages by using various pieces of information such as user hazard information and rescue information and may automatically configure emergency situation notification messages through information on the change of user status after accidents. The configuration of the emergency situation notification message will be described later with reference to . The emergency situation notification messages according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include various pieces information by which at least one user in an emergency situation may be recognized as well as information disclosed in . In addition the message generation module may configure emergency situation notification messages through various pieces of information which are required to recognize emergency situations.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may identify a current running application in the electronic device in order to transmit emergency situation notification messages to at least one of other users who are selected or determined. This application may include an application adopting a communication function to notify at least one of other users of an emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may notify at least one of the other users of an emergency situation through a current running application. The application may include at least one of an application for transmitting and receiving text or voice information to and from at least one of other users and a communication module provided in the electronic device . The communication module may include a text messaging function a group chatting function and voice communication function and the controller may notify at least one of other users of an emergency situation through Wi Fi identifiers.

In illustrates an example of a designated situation message in a high degree of emergency according to various embodiments of the present disclosure illustrates an example of a designated situation message in a low degree of emergency according to various embodiments of the present disclosure illustrates an example of a designated situation message in a high degree of emergency according to an embodiment of the present disclosure illustrates an example of a designated situation message in a relatively low degree of emergency according to an embodiment of the present disclosure and illustrates an example of a designated situation message in the lowest degree of emergency according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to when an emergency situation e.g. earthquakes occurs according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may configure a screen into several areas. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first area may display the location where the emergency situation has occurred on the map. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second area may display more detailed information on the emergency situation. For example the second area may display a magnitude of earthquake and a distance between the place where the earthquake has occurred and the current location of a user. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the third area may display information on at least one of other users who are to be notified of an emergency situation when a user is in the emergency situation. For example when a user in an emergency situation searches for contact information stored in the electronic device the third area may display a contact list by which the user may identify emergency contact information or frequently called telephone numbers first. If the contact list is accessed in an emergency situation emergency contact information may be provided first. The at least one user may include at least one of the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group a user designated group a rescue party close to the current location of a user and a rescue party of the nation. The controller may configure related items first when configuring an emergency mode. For example in Japan where earthquakes frequently occur the controller may configure items related to earthquakes first when configuring an emergency mode. The at least one of other users may include various users who may help in an emergency situation by transmitting the emergency situation notification message as well as the above described users. New users may be added and or existing users may be deleted. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the fourth area may receive an instruction input for making a request to the at least one user for help. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the fifth area may receive an instruction input for converting the electronic device to a safety mode upon the termination of an emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may operate in another level when the emergency situation terminates and the level may be different according to the modes of the electronic device or the degree of emergency. In addition the sixth area may receive an instruction input for entering an emergency mode in response to the occurrence of an emergency situation. The emergency situation notification messages in a case of a high degree of emergency may include other information for notifying an emergency situation as well as the information shown in .

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure a user may determine that he or she is in a safe area because the location of occurrence of emergency situation is far from the user. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may convert the current mode to a caution mode for an emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may configure a screen into several pieces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first area may display the location where the emergency situation has occurred on the map. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second area may display more detailed information on the emergency situation. For example the second area may display a magnitude of earthquake and a distance between the place where the earthquake has occurred and the current location of a user. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the third area may display an advisory message to allow a user to be informed of a current emergency situation and to watch the same. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the fourth area may display more detailed information on the emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the fifth area may display information or news on the emergency situation which are provided from media sources or may receive an instruction input for directions to related sites. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the fifth area may display different information according to the current location of the electronic device . For example in Japan where earthquakes frequently occur a menu related to earthquakes may be provided first in the configuration image and in Gangwon province a region of heavy snows in Korea information on snow may be provided first. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the sixth area may receive an instruction input for entering an emergency mode in response to the occurrence of an emergency situation.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may be converted to a warning mode or a caution mode according to an emergency situation and may configure menus and the configuration of screen image to be different according to each mode. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may differently operate the electronic device even with the same menu.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when an emergency situation and or a hazard occurs the electronic device may detect the same and receive related information through a communication interface and or obtain information on the emergency situation or the hazard cause through at least one sensor provided in a sensor unit of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the occurrence of hazard causes may be detected by receiving a push message with disaster information such as earthquakes storms and the like provided from a disaster server or by receiving disaster information from a server that provides the same.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an emergency situation may be detected by a user converting the electronic device to an emergency mode and or by hazard information received from other users. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine the degree of emergency according to how much the hazard causes affect a user with consideration of the type of hazard cause the location of the electronic device and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the situation determination module may determine the degree of emergency according to user status information as well as the location of the electronic device to thereby control the electronic device . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure even with the same hazard cause the degree of emergency may be different depending on the location of a user. For example in a case of a fall the degree of emergency from the fall in the mountains may be determined to be higher than that of a fall on level ground. For example a fire in a factory full of flammable substances may be determined to be a high degree of emergency. Likewise an accident detected on a highway may have a higher degree of emergency than an accident detected in an alley while walking. For example when the electronic device is determined to be moved to the hospital after the detection of an accident of a high degree of emergency the situation determination module may recognize the user s movement to the hospital and reduce the degree of emergency even with the detection of the accident. Furthermore for example when a user who is staying in the area where an earthquake occurs leaves the area the situation determination module may reduce the degree of emergency. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the situation determination module may newly configure and control the screen image in response to the determined degree of emergency.

Referring to when an emergency situation e.g. earthquakes occurs according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may divide a screen into several areas. For example the first area may display the location where the emergency situation has occurred on the map. The second area may display more detailed information on the earthquake. For example the second area may display a magnitude of earthquake a distance between the place where the earthquake has occurred and the current location of a user or earthquake occurrence time. The third area may display various pieces of information to effectively take action against the earthquake. For example the sentence that asks users to stay indoors and away from windows may be displayed. The fourth area may display information on at least one user who is to be notified of an emergency situation when a user is in the emergency situation. The at least one user may include at least one of the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group a user designated group and a rescue party close to the current location of a user and new users may be added and or existing users may be deleted. The fifth area may receive an instruction input for making a request to the at least one user for help. The sixth area may receive an instruction input for converting the electronic device to a safety mode upon the termination of an emergency situation.

Referring to when it is determined that a user is in a safe area because the location of occurrence of emergency situation is far from the current location of the user the electronic device may convert the current mode to a caution mode for an emergency situation. The controller may divide a screen into several areas. The first area may display the location where the emergency situation has occurred on the map. The second area may display more detailed information on the emergency situation. For example the second area may display a magnitude of earthquake a distance between the place where the earthquake has occurred and the current location of a user and or earthquake occurrence time. The third area may display messages to ask a user to watch the emergency situation. The fourth area may display various pieces of information on the emergency situation. The fifth area may display information and or news on the emergency situation which are provided from media sources or may receive an instruction input for direction to related sites. The sixth area may receive an instruction input for selecting at least one user who may be urgently contacted in response to the emergency situation.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure when it is determined that a user is in a safe area because the location of occurrence of emergency situation is far from the current location of the user the electronic device may convert the current mode to a safety mode for an emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may divide a screen into several areas. The first area may display the location where the emergency situation has occurred on the map. The second area may display more detailed information on the emergency situation. For example the second area may display a magnitude of earthquake a distance between the place where the earthquake has occurred and the current location of a user and or earthquake occurrence time. The third area may display messages to ask a user to watch the emergency situation. The fourth area may display various pieces of information on the generated earthquake. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the various pieces of information may include information related to the generated earthquake such as the generation of aftershocks the generation period of aftershocks and the like. The fifth area may display information or news on the emergency situation which are provided from media sources or may receive an instruction input for direction to related sites.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may switch the electronic device into a warning mode a caution mode or a safety mode depending on emergency situations to thereby control a screen according to each mode and display information on each mode in the screen.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when an emergency situation or a hazard cause occurs the electronic device may detect the same and receive related information through a communication interface and or obtain information on the emergency situation or the hazard cause through at least one sensor provided in a sensor unit of the electronic device . The occurrence of hazard causes may be detected by receiving a push message with disaster information such as earthquakes storms and the like provided from a disaster server or by receiving disaster information from a server that provides the same.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an emergency situation may be detected by a user converting the electronic device to an emergency mode and or by hazard information received from other users. For example the situation determination module may determine the degree of emergency according to how much the hazard causes affect a user with consideration of the type of hazard cause the location of the electronic device and the like and newly configure or control the screen image to correspond to the determined degree of emergency.

Referring to an example of status information of different users in an emergency situation according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. illustrates an example of a control operation in a low degree of emergency according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. illustrates an example of a control operation in a high degree of emergency according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to when an emergency situation e.g. storms occurs according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may determine a current location. For example when a user is determined to be at the position A e.g. in the building the controller may control to determine that the emergency situation e.g. storms has a low degree of emergency to thereby switch the electronic device into a mode e.g. a caution mode corresponding to the low degree of emergency and display the screen image as shown in . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the map showing that a storm is moving from the southern sea to the inland area may be displayed to provide various pieces of information on the storm. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when a user is determined to be at the position B e.g. on the seashore the controller may control to determine that the emergency situation has a high degree of emergency to thereby convert the electronic device to a warning mode and display the screen image as shown in . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in even with the detection of the same disaster the degree of emergency may be different according to the current location of a user. For example the degree of emergency in a case of a user staying in the hotel or building at the position A is lower than the degree of emergency in a case of a user being on the seashore at the position B so the controller may convert the electronic device at the position B to an emergency mode to thereby notify the user of the emergency situation while the controller may convert the electronic device at the position A to a caution mode to ask the user not to go out.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the power control module may control the electronic device in order to minimize power consumption of the electronic device in an emergency situation. For example in a case of an emergency situation such as a user s fall the power control module may convert the electronic device to a low power mode in order to use the electronic device for a long time. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in an emergency situation the power control mode may convert most functions except for a function necessary for notifying the emergency situation to at least one user to a deactivation state to thereby reduce power consumption. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may convert a screen to an emergency mode and configure the same in an emergency situation e.g. earthquakes . The controller may configure related items first when configuring an emergency mode. For example in Japan where earthquakes frequently occur the controller may configure items related to earthquakes first when configuring an emergency mode. The controller may display functions necessary for notifying at least one user of an emergency situation. These functions may include LEDs a siren transmission of location a phone call and or earthquake guides. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may activate at least one function among the functions automatically by checking the amount of remaining current of a power supply or according to a user s selection.

Referring to an example of schedule information stored in an electronic device that detects an emergency situation according to an embodiment of the present disclosure and illustrate an example of an emergency notification message transferred to electronic devices of which users have an appointment with a user of an electronic device that detects an emergency situation according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

When a user of an electronic device who is supposed to meet Hong Gil Dong Kim Gap Soo and Jack at 7 00 to 9 00 pm at Gangnam station cannot join the meeting due to occurrence of an emergency situation the message generation module of the electronic device that detects the emergency situation may generate and transmit emergency situation notification messages stating that the user cannot attend the meeting due to occurrence of an emergency situation to electronic devices and of Hong Gil Dong Kim Gap soo and Jack. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when an emergency situation occurs the controller may recognize the emergency situation and check schedules stored in the memory to determine whether the user has any appointment. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may identify contact information or identifiers of at least one of other users included in the schedules and generate messages stating that the user cannot attend the meeting to be thereby transmitted. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when an unexpected accident to a user is detected the controller may convert the mode of the electronic device to an emergency mode. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure related users registered in the schedules may be notified of the accident. For example the notification may be made in various ways such as text messages voice calls schedule updating and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the transferred information may be various pieces of information such as notification of absences notification of accident a request for help and the like.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when an unexpected accident occurs to a user during one to one text messaging or one to several text messaging the situation determination module may detect the emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the notification module may transmit a content related to the emergency situation through a chat window that the user uses. For example receivers may be determined by extracting the same from chat applications and or e mail applications. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may automatically generate emergency situation notification messages and transmit the emergency situation notification messages through the current running application. For example the emergency situation notification messages may include a description of the accident location of the accident time of the accident and the like. For example when an emergency situation of a user due to a fall is detected while the user is transmitting and receiving text messages to and from at least one of other users by using a messenger program such as ChatOn the controller may convert the electronic device to an emergency mode and notify other users who are chatting in the messenger program of the emergency situation of the user. For example the at least one of other users may be determined by using at least one of the latest contact information a contacting frequency a group and a user designated group. For example the emergency situation notification messages may be periodically transmitted to other users. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the situation determination module may analyze the degree of emergency by determining whether the user in the emergency situation can move. In response to this the emergency situation notification messages may be newly configured. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the current running program is a navigation program for guiding paths when a hazard cause that may affect a user occurs on the paths the controller may change the paths. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the paths may be changed according to the changed hazard and information such as schedule information and hazard information capable of affecting a user may be informed of and or re scheduling is recommended.

Referring to an example of changing a Wi Fi ID in an emergency situation according to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated and illustrates an example of updating a Wi Fi ID when appropriate actions have not been taken until a predetermined amount of time has expired since occurrence of an emergency situation according to another embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to the electronic device may include various IDs such as a Bluetooth ID a Hotspot ID a Wi Fi ID and the like. At least one electronic device in the surrounding area may search for Wi Fi signals and identify an identifier of the electronic device to thereby display the same on a screen. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure each Wi Fi signal and or may be displayed in the screen. When an emergency situation occurs the situation determination module may detect the emergency situation. The message generation module may activate a Wi Fi mode in order to notify at least one of other users of the detected emergency situation and generate emergency situation notification messages to inform IDs of the activated Wi Fi of the emergency situation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the message generation module may generate emergency situation notification messages to notify at least one of other users of the detected emergency situation activate a Wi Fi mode by using the generated emergency situation notification messages and notify IDs of the activated Wi Fi of the emergency situation. The controller may notify other users by replacing the generated emergency situation notification messages with an ID of Wi Fi.

Referring to when the user stays motionless or actions have not been taken for the emergency situation after replacing the emergency situation with the ID of Wi Fi the emergency situation notification message may be renewed to state that the user is currently in a very urgent emergency situation to be thereby transmitted to another user. After changing the ID a request for pairing may be made with respect to other terminals. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure after pairing various pieces of information may be transferred to another electronic device. For example information such as an emergency situation of a user and or information for a request for help may be transferred to at least one of other electronic devices . As the pairing continues to be made information may be updated and transferred. This method of changing IDs may be utilized during communication interruption and or when a low battery level is detected as well as in the emergency situation. In addition to the user s ID an ID of at least one of other electronic devices may be changed through the pairing. The method of changing IDs may be applied to virtual IDs or real IDs and the ID may be changed again according to the change of situation. When the emergency situation terminates and or a user is moved to a safe area the ID may return to the original ID.

Referring to the electronic device may constitute a part or all of for example the electronic device shown in . The electronic device may include at least one Application Processor AP a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor but is not limited thereto.

The AP may control a multitude of hardware and or software elements connected with the AP and perform processing of various data including multimedia data and calculation by performing an operating system and or application programs. The AP may be implemented with for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may perform transmission and reception of data between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device or the server connected with the electronic device through networks. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module or Radio Frequency RF module . The cellular module may provide services of voice calls video calls and text messages and or an Internet service through communication networks e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . For example the cellular module may perform identification and authentication of electronic devices in communication networks by using subscriber identification modules e.g. SIM cards . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least some of functions provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . In addition the cellular module may be implemented by for example SoC. Although elements such as the cellular module e.g. the communication processor the memory or the power management module are illustrated separately from the AP in according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may include at least some e.g. the cellular module of the above described elements.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP and or the cellular module e.g. the communication processor may load instructions or data received from at least one of non volatile memories or other elements which are connected with the AP and cellular module to volatile memories and process the same. The AP or cellular module may store data that is received or generated from or by at least one of the elements in non volatile memories.

Each of The Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted and received through each module. Although the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module are illustrated as separated blocks in according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least some e.g. two or more of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package. For example at least some processors e.g. the communication processor corresponding to the cellular module or a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module corresponding to the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented by a single SoC.

The RF module may transmit and receive data for example RF signals. The RF module although not shown may include for example transceivers Power Amp Modules PAMs frequency filters Low Noise Amplifiers LNA and the like. The RF module may further include components for example conductors or cables for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves through a free space in wireless communication. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module in according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit and receive RF signals through separated modules.

The SIM card may be a card adopting a subscriber identification module and be inserted into a slot formed at a predetermined position of the electronic device. The SIM card may include an inherent identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory and an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and or a non volatile Memory e.g. an one time programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like . According to an embodiment the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD form. The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a Memory Stick and the like. The external memory may be functionally connected with the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure physical quantities and detect an operation state of the electronic device to thereby convert the measured or detected information to electric signals. The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a Red Green Blue RGB sensor a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K or an Ultra Violet UV sensor M but is not limited thereto. Alternatively or additionally the sensor module may further include an E nose sensor not shown an ElectroMyoGraphy sensor EMG not shown an ElectroEncephaloGram sensor EEG not shown an ElectroCardioGram sensor ECG not shown an InfRared IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor not shown and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor included in the sensor module .

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor keys and an ultrasonic input device but is not limited thereto. The touch panel may recognize a touch input by at least one of for example a capacitive type a pressure type an infrared type and an ultrasonic type. In addition the touch panel may further include a control circuit. In a case of a capacitive type the proximity as well as direct touches may be detected. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a user with a tactile reaction.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the digital pen sensor may be implemented by using for example a method that is the same as or similar to a user s touch input or a separate recognition sheet. The keys may include for example physical buttons optical keys or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device detects acoustic waves with a microphone e.g. a microphone at the electronic device through an input means that generates ultrasonic signals to thereby identify data. The ultrasonic input device may perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive a user input from external devices e.g. computers and or servers which are connected with the communication module by using the communication module .

The display module e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Displays LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED and the like. The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured with the touch panel as a single module. The hologram device may display 3D images in the air by using interference of light. The projector may display images by projecting light onto a screen. The screen may be positioned for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC interface and or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert voices to electric signals and vice versa. At least some elements of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface shown in . The audio module may process voice information input and or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone and or a microphone .

The camera module is a device for photographing still and moving images and may include at least one image sensor e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor lenses not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown and a flash not shown e.g. LED or a xenon lamp according to an embodiment.

The power control module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger IC a battery and or a fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted for example in integrated circuits or SoC semiconductors. The charging methods may be divided into a wired type and a wireless type. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent inflow of excessive voltage and or excessive current from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging type and the wireless charging type. The wireless charging type may encompass for example a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type and or an electromagnetic wave type and additional circuits for wireless charging for example coil loops resonance circuits rectifiers and the like may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example the remaining amount of battery a charging voltage and current and or temperature. The battery may store and or generate electric power and supply electric power to the electronic device by using the stored and or generated power. The battery may be for example a rechargeable battery and or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state for example a booting state a message state or a charging state of the whole or a part e.g. the AP of the electronic device . The motor may convert electric signals to a mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a processing device e.g. the GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing device for supporting a mobile TV may process media data according to standards such as for example a Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB a Digital Video Broadcasting DVB and or a media flow.

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be configured with one or more components and the names of the corresponding elements may depend on the type of electronic device. The electronic device according to the present disclosure may be configured by including at least one of the above described elements and some of the elements may be omitted or other elements may be added. In addition some of the elements of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be combined to a single entity that may perform the same functions as those of original elements.

The term module used in the present disclosure may mean a unit including one or more combinations of for example hardware software and firmware. The module may be replaced with terms such as for example a unit a logic a logical block a component and or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit or a part thereof which perform one or more functions. The module may be implemented mechanically and or electronically. For example the module may include at least one of Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chips Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs or programmable logic devices which are well known or will be developed in the future for performing predetermined operations.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least some of devices e.g. modules or functions thereof or methods e.g. operations according to the present disclosure may be implemented with instructions stored in computer readable storage media for example as a form of programming module. When the instructions are performed by at least one processor e.g. the processor the at least one processor may perform functions corresponding to the instructions.

The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least some of the programming modules may be implemented e.g. performed by for example the processor . At least some of the programming modules may include for example modules programs routines sets of instructions and or processes for performing at least one function. The computer readable recording medium includes magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tapes optical media such as a CD ROM and a DVD magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices such as a ROM a RAM and a flash memory which are specially configured to store and perform program instructions. Further the program instruction includes a machine language code generated by a compiler and a high level language code executable by a computer through an interpreter and the like. The hardware devices may be configured to operate as one or more software modules to perform the operations of the present disclosure and vice versa.

The programming modules according to the present disclosure may include one or more elements among the above described elements exclude some of them or further include other elements. Operations performed by the programming modules or other elements according to the present disclosure may be processed sequentially concurrently repeatedly or heuristically and some operations may be omitted or other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in a recording medium for recording instructions performed by at least one processor to thereby allow the processor to perform at least one operation the operation may include determining a designated situation based on at least one piece of information obtained from the outside or information obtained from at least one sensor of the electronic device determining features corresponding to the designated situation and controlling the electronic device based on at least one of the features or user status information. The present disclosure may further include determining whether the control mode of the electronic device is to be changed based on at least some detected changes of the user status information.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

