---

title: Push-based recommendations
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for pushing a recommendation to a user. That is, a recommendation may be pushed to a device of the user based upon a triggering event associated with the user. The recommendation may be provided, for example, without user solicitation for the recommendation. In one example, a recommendation component may observe that the user frequently stops for ice cream on Fridays after work (e.g., based upon prior social network check-ins). Accordingly, on the following Friday, the recommendation component may push a recommendation to the user's device to visit a particular grocery store on the way home from work that is within 10 minutes of the user's home so that the user can avoid melting ice cream (e.g., a location constraint may be applied to choose a grocery store that is relatively close to the user's home).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09269098&OS=09269098&RS=09269098
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09269098
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150105
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 558 642 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 949 334 filed on Jul. 26 2012 titled PUSH BASED RECOMMENDATIONS at least some of which may be incorporated herein.

Many applications services and or websites allow users to search for information create organized schedules share information and or perform a variety of other tasks. In one example a search engine may provide a user with images links to websites and or other search results in response to a search query submitted by the user. In another example a calendar application may maintain a schedule of user defined events and user defined reminders in response to a user setting up such events and reminders. In another example a mapping service may provide a user with a map comprising one or more coffee shops that are close in proximity to the current location of the user in response to the user submitting a search for coffee shops to the mapping service. In this way the user may explicitly search for information create events and reminders and or search for directions.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for pushing a recommendation to a user are provided herein. The recommendation may be pushed to the user e.g. without user solicitation based upon a triggering event associated with the user. For example a set of triggering events may be defined based upon observed user behavior e.g. the user regularly calls his sister on Tuesday afternoon the user gets ice cream on Fridays if the temperature is above 80 the user will only detour for a gas station if the price of gas is more than 20 cents cheaper than a more conveniently located gas station etc. a change in a real world value e.g. the temperature rises above 80 a location of the user is near a particular landmark a vehicle of the user is low on gas etc. an email indicating that an event is to occur social network event data e.g. the user s sister has an event scheduled through a social network that may prevent her from being available for Tuesday afternoon s phone call and or a variety of other observations associated with the user and or aggregated from other users. In this way an occurrence of a triggering event associated with the user may be identified.

One or more suggested entities corresponding to the triggering event may be determined. In one example responsive to a Friday post office visit triggering event associated with observed user behavior e.g. the user generally visits a post office after work on Fridays one or more post offices may be determined as the one or more suggested entities. In another example responsive to a phone call triggering event associated with observed user behavior e.g. the user generally calls his sister on Tuesday afternoon one or more call times at which the user may call his sister may be determined as the one or more suggested entities.

An entity selection criteria model may be constructed based upon one or more constraints derived from observation data associated with the triggering event. The entity selection criteria model may be based upon a weather constraint e.g. a drive in movie theater may be recommended based upon a sunny day a gas constraint e.g. a local gas station may be recommended based upon a vehicle having low gas a traffic constraint e.g. a new route may be recommended based upon current traffic conditions a membership constraint e.g. a store with which the user has a membership may be recommended a price constraint e.g. a store with an acceptable detour having a sale may be recommended a coupon constraint an hours of operation constraint a distance to destination constraint e.g. as opposed to merely a distance to current location constraint a user preference constraint e.g. the user generally prefers to shop at a particular grocery store an observed behavior constraint e.g. the user prefers to make work phone calls during the morning and or a variety of other constraints. It may be appreciated that in one example an entity selection criteria model may be predefined e.g. defined before the identification of a triggering event . For example the entity selection criteria model may be constructed offline e.g. instead of in real time or on the fly . For example the entity selection criteria model may be constructed asynchronously while monitoring behavior of one or more users. Accordingly upon identification of the triggering event the entity selection criteria model may be available e.g. already constructed for utilization in creating a recommendation.

The entity selection criteria model may be applied to the one or more suggested entities to create a recommendation for the triggering event. In one example the one or more suggested entities may be ranked based upon various factors such as a convenience factor e.g. the user generally visits a post office conveniently located along a route from work to home as opposed to a post office closest to work a price factor e.g. the user may detour up to 2 miles to buy stamps that are on sale a time factor e.g. the user may be able to reach a first post office but not a second post office before closing a user preference factor e.g. the user prefers to visit a post office that is near a shopping plaza and or other factors derived from the entity selection criteria model. The recommendation may comprise a suggested entity selected from the one or more suggested entities. In this way the recommendation may be pushed to a device associated with the user. It may be appreciated that in one example the recommendation may be pushed without user solicitation. For example a recommendation of a particular post office may be pushed to a user based upon prior user behavior of buying stamps on Fridays after work without the user explicitly searching for post offices and or setting up an event or reminder for visiting the post office.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Today users may search for directions through a mapping service search for information through a search engine organize events and reminders through a calendar application and or perform other actions based upon user solicitation e.g. a user may explicitly schedule a reminder to call his sister the user may explicitly search for a post office that is close to a current location of the user etc. . Unfortunately recommendations may not be provided to users without direct user solicitation. Accordingly as provided herein it may be advantageous to push recommendations to a user e.g. without direct user solicitation .

One embodiment of pushing a recommendation to a user is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At a triggering event associated with a user may be identified. In one example the triggering event may correspond to an inference that a user will perform an activity. The inference may be based upon a prior occurrence of the activity by the user e.g. the user likes to buy ice cream on Fridays when the weather is over 80 . In another example a set of triggering events may be created based upon observed user behaviors of one or more users e.g. users will generally detour up to 5 miles to save at least 20 cents per gallon on gas and or changes in real world values e.g. a change in weather a change in location of the user an amount of gas within a vehicle etc. . In this way an occurrence of the triggering event within the set of triggering events may be identified. In another example the triggering event may correspond to a scheduled event within a user calendar e.g. a grocery shopping calendar event may be correlated with a temperature over 80 on Friday to recommend a grocery store that is near an ice cream shop an email e.g. expiration of an email coupon for a store may trigger a recommendation for the user to visit the store social network data an amount of gas in a vehicle etc.

In one example the triggering event may be based upon user data e.g. publicly available data data that the user has provided permission to use in pushing recommendations data that the user has not opted out to use in pushing recommendations etc. . For example email a calendar prior search results selected by the user prior map directions followed by the user location check in events social network events with which the user has participated and or a variety of other sources may be mined for triggering event data. In another example the triggering event may be based upon aggregated user data. For example users of a mapping service generally choose to buy ice cream from grocery stores that are located within 5 miles from home to avoid melting.

At one or more suggested entities corresponding to the triggering event may be determined. For example a location a business a time e.g. a proposed time to call a person a driving route an advertisement a sequence of events etc. may be determined as the one or more suggested entities. In one example an entity selection criteria model may be constructed based upon one or more constraints derived from observation data associated with the triggering event at . In another example a pre defined entity selection criteria model may be identified as the entity selection criteria model at e.g. the pre defined entity selection criteria model may be generated asynchronously such as offline based upon observed user behavior of one or more users over time . In one example of an entity selection criteria model behavior of one or more users may be aggregated to generate a constraint e.g. a distance to home constraint may be generated based upon users preferring to buy ice cream close to home . In another example user preferences of one or more users may be aggregated to generate a constraint e.g. a user prefers to buy a particular brand of cereal when the cereal is on sale a user prefers to make business phone calls in the morning users of a mapping application generally do not detour for gas that is merely a few cents cheaper than a conveniently located gas station along their route etc. . In another example a constraint may be generated based upon a real world value e.g. a time constraint may be generated based upon a closing time of a post office a directions constraint may be generated based upon current traffic conditions a price constraint may be generated based upon a coupon held by a user etc. . In this way the entity selection criteria model may be constructed from one or more constraints such as a weather constraint a gas constraint a traffic constraint a membership constraint a price constraint a coupon constraint an hours of operation constraint a user preference constraint a distance to destination constraint a parking lot to destination constraint a time constraint and or an observed behavior constraint etc.

At the entity selection criteria model may be applied to the one or more suggested entities to create a recommendation for the triggering event. The recommendation may comprise a suggested entity selected from the one or more suggested entities. In one example the one or more suggested entities may be ranked based upon various factors derived from the entity selection criteria model e.g. a factor may correspond to one or more constraints used to generate the entity selection criteria model . For example the one or more suggested entities may be ranked based upon a convenience factor e.g. a store may be ranked based upon how conveniently located the store is along a driving route of the user as opposed to how close the store is to a current location of the user which may otherwise result in a detour from the driver s current driving route a price factor e.g. a first store necessitating a detour from the driver s current driving route with a lower price may be ranked higher than a second store with a higher price if the first store is within an acceptable detour threshold for the user a time factor e.g. a store that may be closed by the time the user reaches the store may be assigned a relatively low rank and or a variety of other factors. In this way the recommendation may be created.

At the recommendation may be pushed to a device associated with the user e.g. a mobile device a computing device within a vehicle a tablet device a desktop device a laptop device a device hosting a mapping service etc. . In one example of pushing the recommendation a push time may be determined based upon one or more constraints e.g. an hours of operation constraint a current location constraint etc. within the entity selection criteria model. For example a buy ice cream trigger may result in a recommendation of an ice cream store near the user s home. Even though the user may not have solicited the recommendation and or specified a push time for the recommendation the recommendation may be pushed to the user at a push time that may provide the user with adequate notice to reach the store before the store closes. In this way the recommendation may be pushed to the device at the push time. At the method ends.

The recommendation component may be configured to determine one or more suggested entities corresponding to the triggering event. For example the recommendation component may select one or more post office branches one or more grocery stores one or more gas stations and or other suggested entities from within a set of entities . The recommendation component may be configured to identify e.g. identify a pre constructed entity selection criteria model as the entity selection criteria model and or construct e.g. construct a new entity selection criteria model as the entity selection criteria model an entity selection criteria model based upon one or more constraints derived from observation data associated with the triggering event. In one example a time constraint may specify that the grocery store and or the post office branch should be open for business by the time the user can reach them e.g. based upon location and time data . In another example an ordering constraint may specify that the post office branch should be visited before the grocery store because post office branches generally close before grocery stores e.g. based upon real world values such as closing times of businesses . In another example a convenience constraint may specify that the post office should be located conveniently along a driving route home based upon the user expressing a disinterest in taking detours e.g. based upon prior observed behavior . In another example a distance to destination constraint may specify that the grocery store should be located within 10 minutes of the user s home because users generally buy ice cream close to home to avoid melting e.g. based upon prior observed behavior . In this way various constraints may be derived from the observation data and may be used to construct the entity selection criteria model .

The recommendation component may be configured to apply the entity selection criteria model to the one or more suggested entities to create the recommendation for the triggering event. The recommendation may comprise a suggested entity e.g. a first suggested entity a second suggested entity and or other suggested entity not illustrated selected from the one or more suggested entities. For example the recommendation may comprise the first suggested entity specifying that a particular post office conveniently located along the user s driving route home is closing soon. The recommendation may provide directions for the user to navigate to the post office so that the user can buy stamps before the post office closes e.g. which the user regularly does on Fridays after work as identified from the prior observed behavior . The recommendation may comprise the second suggested entity specifying that a particular grocery store is located close the user s home such that the user may buy ice cream close to home to avoid melting e.g. which the user regularly does on Fridays after work as identified from the prior observed behavior . The recommendation component may push the recommendation to the device of the user at a push time e.g. an hour before work ends that may provide the user with adequate time to follow the recommendation .

The recommendation component may be configured to determine one or more suggested entities corresponding to the triggering event. For example the recommendation component may select one or more grocery stores from within a set of entities e.g. a first grocery store with which the user does not have a membership a second grocery store with which the user has a membership and or other grocery stores that may be relevant to the triggering event . The recommendation component may be configured to identify e.g. identify a pre constructed entity selection criteria model as the entity selection criteria model and or construct e.g. construct a new entity selection criteria model as the entity selection criteria model an entity selection criteria model based upon one or more constraints derived from observation data associated with the triggering event. In one example a membership constraint may specify that the user has a price discount membership to the second grocery store which may have been derived from social network data . A convenience constraint may specify that the user is willing to detour 5 minutes to obtain cheaper prices when grocery shopping. In this way various constraints may be derived from the observation data and may be used to construct the entity selection criteria model .

The recommendation component may be configured to apply the entity selection criteria model to the one or more suggested entities to create the recommendation for the triggering event. The recommendation may comprise a suggested entity selected from the one or more suggested entities. For example the recommendation may comprise the second grocery store because the user has a membership to the second grocery store and the second grocery store less than a 5 minute detour from the user s original route e.g. original route . The recommendation may comprise the second grocery store but not the first grocery store because the second grocery store may be ranked relatively higher than the first grocery store based upon the user having a membership to the second grocery store e.g. even though the first grocery store is more conveniently located along the original route . The recommendation component may push the recommendation to the device of the user.

The recommendation component may be configured to determine one or more suggested entities corresponding to the triggering event. For example the recommendation component may select one or more suggested calling times from within a set of entities . The recommendation component may be configured to identify e.g. identify a pre constructed entity selection criteria model as the entity selection criteria model and or construct e.g. construct a new entity selection criteria model as the entity selection criteria model an entity selection criteria model based upon one or more constraints derived from observation data associated with the triggering event. In one example a scheduling constraint may specify that the sister has a scheduled appointment on Tuesday afternoon but is free Tuesday evening e.g. based upon calendar . In this way various constraints may be derived from the observation data and may be used to construct the entity selection criteria model .

The recommendation component may be configured to apply the entity selection criteria model to the one or more suggested entities to create the recommendation for the triggering event. The recommendation may comprise a suggested entity selected from the one or more suggested entities. For example the recommendation may comprise a suggested evening calling time such that the user may call his sister when the sister is available. The recommendation component may push the recommendation to the device of the user.

The recommendation component may construct an entity selection criteria model based upon one or more constraints derived from observation data e.g. a user preference constraint that the user generally prefers to make phone calls in the morning based upon prior phone behavior of the user a first time constraint that the user will need 30 minutes to prepare for the phone call with Trish a second time constraint that the user will be on the phone with Bob for an hour based upon prior phone behavior between the user and Bob an hours of operation constraint for the user to reach the bank before the bank closes etc. . In this way the recommendation component may apply the entity selection criteria model to the one or more suggested entities to create the recommendation . For example the recommendation may comprise a first suggested entity recommending the user to call Bob at 9 30 because Bob is busy before 9 00 a second suggested entity recommending the user to call Trish at 11 00 so that the user has time to adequately prepare for the phone call e.g. the user may need 30 minutes to prepare and the phone call with Bob generally takes 1 hour and or a third suggested entity recommending the user to leave work by 4 00 so that the user can reach a particular bank conveniently located along a driving route home. In this way the recommendation may comprise a sequence of events e.g. phone calls bank visits etc. that may be recommended to the user. The recommendation may be pushed to the device of the user.

The recommendation component may construct an entity selection criteria model based upon one or more constraints derived from observation data e.g. a location constraint a coupon constraint etc. . The recommendation component may apply the entity selection criteria model to the one or more suggested entities to create the recommendation . For example the recommendation may comprise a first suggested entity recommending that the user visit a water park for which the user has a coupon. In this way the recommendation may comprise directions for the water park a link to an email comprising the coupon and or other information. The recommendation may be pushed to the device of the user.

The recommendation component may construct an entity selection criteria model based upon one or more constraints derived from observation data e.g. a location constraint a price constraint a detour constraint etc. . For example users may generally be willing to detour 5 minutes or less to save 25 cents or more on gas . The recommendation component may apply the entity selection criteria model to the one or more suggested entities to create the recommendation . For example the recommendation may comprise a first suggested entity recommending a first gas station that is within a 5 minute detour of an original driving route and has gas that is 30 cents cheaper than a gas station that may be more conveniently located along the original driving route. In this way the recommendation may comprise a new route for the user that may direct the user to the first gas station. The recommendation may be pushed to the device of the user.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of exemplary system of at least some of exemplary system of at least some of exemplary system of and or at least some of exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

