---

title: Droplet actuator configurations and methods of conducting droplet operations
abstract: A droplet actuator with a droplet formation electrode configuration associated with a droplet operations surface, wherein the electrode configuration may include one or more electrodes configured to control volume of a droplet during formation of a sub-droplet on the droplet operations surface. Methods of making and using the droplet actuator are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09630180&OS=09630180&RS=09630180
owner: ADVANCED LIQUID LOGIC, INC.
number: 09630180
owner_city: Morrisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150106
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 682 830 entitled Droplet Actuator Configurations and Methods of Conducting Droplet Operations filed on Jul. 12 2010 now abandoned the application of which is a National Stage Entry of and claims priority to PCT International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 088205 entitled Droplet Actuator Configurations and Methods of Conducting Droplet Operations filed on Dec. 23 2008 now expired the application of which is related to and claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 016 618 entitled Reservoir Configurations for a Droplet Actuator filed on Dec. 26 2007 and 61 016 480 entitled Reservoir Configurations for a Droplet Actuator filed on Dec. 23 2007 the entire disclosures of which are specifically incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under GM072155 and DK066956 both awarded by the National Institutes of Health of the United States. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to droplet actuators in which droplet operations are mediated by electrodes and particularly to modifications of droplet actuators and electrode configurations on droplet actuators for enhancing the loading dispensing splitting and or disposing of droplets. The invention also relates to modified droplet actuators in which electrical field gradients are used to conduct or enhance droplet operations.

Droplet actuators are used to conduct a wide variety of droplet operations. A droplet actuator typically includes two substrates separated by a gap. The substrates include electrodes for conducting droplet operations. The space is typically filled with a filler fluid that is immiscible with the fluid that is to be manipulated on the droplet actuator. The formation and movement of droplets is controlled by electrodes for conducting a variety of droplet operations such as droplet transport and droplet dispensing. Because there is a need to produce droplets having more accurate and or precise volumes for both samples and reagents there is a need for alternative approaches to metering droplets in a droplet actuator. There is also a need for improved approaches to loading droplet operations fluids such as samples and or reagents into and removing such fluids from a droplet actuator.

The invention provides a droplet actuator comprising a droplet formation electrode configuration. The droplet formation electrode configuration may be associated with a droplet operations surface. The electrode configuration may include one or more electrodes configured to control a position of an edge of a droplet during formation of a sub droplet on the droplet operations surface. The electrode configuration may include one or more electrodes configured to control a volume of a droplet during formation of a sub droplet on the droplet operations surface. The electrode configuration may include one or more electrodes configured to control a footprint of a droplet or a region of a droplet during formation of a sub droplet on the droplet operations surface.

The edge of the droplet controlled during droplet formation may include an edge of a necking region of the droplet. The edge of the droplet controlled during droplet formation may include an edge of the sub droplet being formed. The control of the position of the edge of the droplet may the volume of the sub droplet. The control of the footprint of the droplet may control the volume of the sub droplet. The control of a region of the footprint of the droplet may control the volume of the sub droplet. The control of the necking region of the footprint of the droplet may control the volume of the sub droplet. The control may exerted by controlling voltage applied to the electrode.

The electrode configuration may include an intermediate electrode configuration. The intermediate electrode configuration may include one or more inner electrodes and two or more outer electrodes arranged laterally with respect to the inner electrode and electrodes flanking the intermediate electrode configuration. The intermediate electrode configuration and electrodes flanking the intermediate electrode configuration may be arranged such that activation of the intermediate electrode configuration and the electrodes flanking the intermediate electrode configuration in the presence of the droplet causes the droplet to elongate across the droplet forming electrode configuration. A reduction in voltage applied to two or more of the outer electrodes in the presence the elongated droplet may be effected to initiate necking of the elongated droplet. A reduction in voltage applied to the one or more inner electrodes following a reduction in voltage applied to the two or more outer electrodes may be effected to break the elongated droplet forming one or more sub droplets. Deactivation of the two or more outer electrodes in the presence the elongated droplet may be effected to initiate necking of the elongated droplet. Deactivation of the one or more inner electrodes following deactivation of all outer electrodes may be effected to break the elongated droplet forming one or more sub droplets. The outer electrodes arranged laterally with respect to the inner electrode may be electrically coupled and function as a single electrode.

The droplet actuator may include a reservoir electrode adjacent to the droplet formation electrode configuration. The droplet actuator may include a droplet operations electrode adjacent to the droplet formation electrode configuration.

The electrode configuration may include one or more centrally located electrodes and one or more necking electrodes adjacent to an edge of the droplet forming electrode configuration. The centrally located electrodes and necking electrodes may be configured to control droplet necking and splitting in a droplet splitting process effected by sequential deactivation of sets of electrodes beginning with the necking electrodes and continuing to the centrally located electrodes.

The droplet actuator wherein the electrode configuration may include a centrally located electrode that is generally I shaped and or hourglass shaped. The electrode configuration may be interposed in a path of electrodes. The electrode configuration and the path of electrodes may be arranged along a common axis. The electrode configuration may include a central electrode arranged symmetrically about the common axis and necking electrodes flanking the central electrode. The electrode configuration may include a second set of necking electrodes flanking the first set of necking electrodes.

The necking electrodes have a shape which may be convex away from the axis. The necking electrodes may include electrode bars oriented in a substantially parallel orientation relative to the central electrode. The electrode configuration may have a size which is approximately equal to the size of one or more adjacent electrodes in the path of electrodes. The electrode configuration may include four triangles arranged to form a square or rectangle.

The electrode configuration may include an electrode that produces an electrical field gradient that controls a position of an edge of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet. The electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may a position of an edge of a necking region of the droplet during formation of a sub droplet. The electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may control a diameter of a necking region of the droplet during formation of a sub droplet. The electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may control a footprint a necking region of the droplet during formation of a sub droplet.

The electrode may produce an electrical field gradient at a first voltage that induces droplet necking and an electrical field gradient at a second voltage that induces droplet splitting. The electrode may produce an electrical field gradient at a first voltage that induces droplet extension an electrical field gradient at a second voltage that induces droplet necking and an electrical field gradient at a third voltage that induces droplet splitting.

The field gradient may be established by a composition atop the electrode. The composition may include a dielectric composition. The composition may include a patterned material including regions having different thicknesses. The composition may include a patterned material including regions having different relative static permittivity or dielectric constant. The composition may include two or more patterned materials each patterned material having a different relative static permittivity or dielectric constant. The composition may include a dielectric material having a first dielectric constant and a dielectric material having a second dielectric constant which may be different from the first dielectric constant. The composition may include dielectric material doped in a patterned fashion with one or more substances that modify the dielectric constant of the dielectric material.

The field gradient may be established by means including shape of the electrode that produces the electrical field gradient. The field gradient may be established by means including variations in electrode thickness in the electrode that produces the electrical field gradient. The field gradient may be established by means including spatial orientation of the electrode in a z direction relative to a droplet operations surface of the droplet actuator. The electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may include conductivity patterns established within the electrode. The electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may include two or more different conductive materials patterned to produce a predetermined field gradient. The electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may include a wire trace in which different regions the electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may include different densities of wire spacing.

The invention provides a system including the droplet actuator and a processor programmed to control the supply of voltage to the one or more electrodes configured to control a position of an edge of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet. The system may include a sensor for monitoring an edge of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet. The system may include a sensor for monitoring a footprint of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet. The system may include a sensor for monitoring a footprint of a region of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet. The region of the droplet monitored by the system may correspond to volume of the dispensed sub droplet. The sensor may detect a parameter associated with volume of the sub droplet. The sensor may be selected to detect one or more electrical chemical and or physical properties of the droplet. The sensor may include an imaging device configured to image the droplet. The processor may be configured to adjust voltage of one or more of the electrodes configured to control the position of the edge of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet. The processor may be configured to adjust voltage of one or more of the electrodes configured to control a position of an edge of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet.

The invention provides a droplet actuator including substrate including a path or array of electrodes the path or array including one or more electrodes formed using a wire trace. The wire trace configuration may include wires in a meandering path. Each turn in the meandering path may be substantially equal to other turns in the path. The wire trace configuration may include regions of differing wire density. The wire trace configuration may include a central axial region that may have greater wire density than an outer region. The wire trace configuration may include an elongated electrode having a first end region and a second end region. The first end region may have greater wire density than the second end region. The wire density may gradually increase along the length of the elongated from the second end region to the first end region.

The invention provides a droplet actuator including an droplet formation electrode configuration for forming a droplet. The droplet forming electrode configuration may include a droplet source an intermediate electrode and a terminal electrode. When a liquid is present at the droplet source activation of the intermediate electrode and the terminal electrode may cause a droplet extension to flow across the intermediate electrode and onto the terminal electrode. Increasing voltage applied to the terminal electrode may increase the length of the droplet extension. Deactivation of the intermediate electrode may break the droplet into two sub droplets.

The droplet source may include a droplet source electrode. The droplet source electrode may include a reservoir. The droplet source electrode may include a reservoir electrode. The droplet source electrode may include a droplet operations electrode. The terminal electrode may be elongated relative to the intermediate electrode. The terminal electrode may have a substantially tapering shape. The terminal electrode may taper away from the droplet source electrode. The terminal electrode may taper towards the droplet source electrode. The terminal electrode may be substantially triangular in shape. An apex of the terminal electrode may be inset into a notch in the intermediate electrode. The terminal electrode may taper from a widest region which may be oriented distally with respect to the intermediate electrode to a narrow region which may be oriented proximally with respect to the intermediate electrode. The terminal electrode may taper from a widest region which may be oriented proximally with respect to the intermediate electrode to a narrow region which may be oriented distally with respect to the intermediate electrode. The widest region may be approximately equal in width to the diameter of the intermediate electrode taken along an axis of the electrode configuration. The narrow region may be narrower than the diameter of the intermediate electrode taken along an axis of the electrode configuration.

The droplet actuator may be provided as a component of a system including the droplet actuator and a processor. The processor may be programmed to control voltage applied to electrodes of the electrode configuration. The processor may be programmed to control droplet volume by adjusting voltage applied to the terminal electrode.

The invention provides a droplet actuator including an electrode configured to conduct a droplet operation. The electrode may be configured to produce an electric field gradient that effects a droplet operation by effecting a change in voltage applied to the electrode. The droplet actuator may include a dielectric material atop the electrode configured to establish a dielectric topography that controls the droplet operation upon effecting the change in voltage applied to the electrode.

The field gradient may be established by means including a patterned material atop the electrode. The patterned material atop the electrode may include a dielectric material including regions having different thicknesses. The patterned material atop the electrode may include a dielectric material including regions having different dielectric constants. The patterned material atop the electrode may include a dielectric material including two or more patterned materials each patterned material having a different dielectric constant. The patterned material atop the electrode may include a dielectric material having a composition which may be varied to produce the electric field gradient. The patterned material atop the electrode may include a first dielectric material of a first dielectric constant patterned on the electrode and a second dielectric material of a second dielectric constant layered on the first dielectric material.

The field gradient may be configured to control the droplet necking and splitting upon reduction of voltage applied to the electrode. Necking may be induced by a first reduction in voltage applied to the electrode configuration and breaking may be induced by a second reduction in voltage applied to the electrode configuration. The field gradient may be established by mans including electrode shape. The field gradient may be established by means including electrode thickness. The field gradient may be established by means including conductivity patterns established within the electrode. The electrode may include two or more different conductive materials patterned to produce a predetermined field gradient. The field gradient may be established by means including a wire trace in which different regions of the electrode configuration have different densities of wire spacing. The field gradient may be established by a means including a pattern of conductive material within the electrode. The field gradient may be established by a means including a pattern of nonconductive material within the electrode. The field gradient may be established by a means including a pattern of differently conductive material within the electrode.

The electrode may produce a patterned field gradient that effects a droplet operation upon activation deactivation or an adjustment in voltage. A reduction in voltage may effect a droplet operation. An increase in voltage may effect extension of a droplet. An increase in voltage in the presence of a droplet on the electrode effects extension of the droplet.

The invention provides a method of controlling a position of an edge of a droplet during formation of a sub droplet. The invention provides a method of controlling a footprint of a droplet during formation of a sub droplet. The invention provides a method of controlling a footprint of a region of a droplet during formation of a sub droplet.

A method of the invention includes providing droplet actuator including a droplet formation electrode configuration associated with a droplet operations surface wherein the electrode configuration may include one or more electrodes configured to control a position of an edge of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet on the droplet operations surface. A method of the invention includes forming the sub droplet while using the electrode configuration to control the edge of the droplet.

The method may include controlling an edge of a necking region of the droplet while forming the sub droplet. The method may include controlling a footprint of a necking region of the droplet while forming the sub droplet. The method may include controlling a region of a footprint of a necking region of the droplet while forming the sub droplet. The method may include controlling a diameter of a necking region of the droplet while forming the sub droplet. The method may include controlling volume of a necking region of the droplet while forming the sub droplet. The method may include controlling drainage of a necking region of the droplet while forming the sub droplet.

The method may include controlling an edge of the sub droplet while forming the sub droplet. The method may include controlling the volume of the sub droplet while forming the sub droplet. The method may include controlling a footprint of the sub droplet while forming the sub droplet. The method may include controlling a footprint of a region of the sub droplet while forming the sub droplet.

Forming the sub droplet may include voltage applied to the electrode configuration. Forming the sub droplet may include voltage applied to an intermediate electrode configuration. Forming the sub droplet may include voltage applied to a terminal electrode configuration. Forming the sub droplet may include voltage applied to an intermediate electrode of the electrode configuration. Forming the sub droplet may include voltage applied to a terminal electrode of the electrode configuration.

The electrode configuration may include an intermediate electrode configuration. The intermediate electrode configuration may include one or more inner electrodes two or more outer electrodes arranged laterally with respect to the inner electrode and electrodes flanking the intermediate electrode configuration. The intermediate electrode configuration and electrodes flanking the intermediate electrode configuration may be arranged such that activation of the intermediate electrode configuration and the electrodes flanking the intermediate electrode configuration in the presence of the droplet causes the droplet to elongate across the droplet forming electrode configuration. A reduction in voltage applied to two or more of the outer electrodes in the presence the elongated droplet may initiate necking of the elongated droplet. A reduction in voltage applied to the one or more inner electrodes following a reduction in voltage applied to the two or more outer electrodes may break the elongated droplet forming one or more sub droplets. Deactivation of the two or more outer electrodes in the presence the elongated droplet may initiate necking of the elongated droplet. Deactivation of the one or more inner electrodes following deactivation of all outer electrodes may break the elongated droplet forming one or more sub droplets. Two or more outer electrodes arranged laterally with respect to the inner electrode may be electrically coupled and function as a single electrode.

The electrode configuration may include a reservoir electrode adjacent to the droplet formation electrode configuration. Forming the sub droplet may include dispensing a smaller volume droplet from a larger volume droplet. A droplet operations electrode may be included adjacent to the droplet formation electrode configuration. The electrode configuration may include one or more centrally located electrodes and one or more necking electrodes adjacent to an edge of the droplet forming electrode configuration. Forming the sub droplet may include sequentially deactivating sets of electrodes beginning with the necking electrodes and continuing to the centrally located electrodes. The electrode configuration may include a centrally located electrode that may be generally I shaped and or hourglass shaped.

The electrode configuration may be interposed in a path of electrodes. The electrode configuration and the path of electrodes may be arranged along a common axis. The electrode configuration may include a central electrode arranged symmetrically about the common axis and necking electrodes flanking the central electrode. A second set of necking electrodes may be provided flanking the first set of necking electrodes. The necking electrodes may have a shape which may be convex away from the axis. The necking electrodes may include electrode bars oriented in a substantially parallel orientation relative to the central electrode. The electrode configuration may have a size which may be approximately equal to the size of one or more adjacent electrodes in the path of electrodes. The electrode configuration may include four triangles arranged to form a square or rectangle. The electrode configuration may include an electrode that produces an electrical field gradient that controls a position of an edge of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet.

The method may include controlling the position of an edge of the droplet by using the electrode configuration to establish an electrical field gradient that controls the position of an edge of a necking region of the droplet during formation of a sub droplet. The method may include controlling the footprint of the droplet. The electrode configuration may establish an electrical field gradient that controls the footprint of a necking region of the droplet during formation of a sub droplet. The footprint may be controlled by controlling voltage applied to the electrode configuration to establish an electrical field gradient at a first voltage that induces droplet necking and an electrical field gradient at a second voltage that induces droplet splitting.

The method may include including controlling voltage applied to the electrode configuration to establish an electrical field gradient at a first voltage that induces droplet extension an electrical field gradient at a second voltage that induces droplet necking and an electrical field gradient at a third voltage that induces droplet splitting.

The field gradient may be established by a composition atop the electrode. The composition may include a dielectric composition. The composition may include a patterned material including regions having different thicknesses. The composition may include a patterned material including regions having different relative static permittivity or dielectric constant. The composition may include two or more patterned materials each patterned material having a different relative static permittivity or dielectric constant. The composition may include 

a dielectric material having a first dielectric constant and a dielectric material having a second dielectric constant which may be different from the first dielectric constant. The materials having different dielectric constants may be patterned to induce a field gradient which effects a droplet operation upon a change in voltage applied to the electrode. The composition may include dielectric material doped in a patterned fashion with one or more substances that modify the dielectric constant of the dielectric material. The field gradient may be established by means including shape of the electrode that produces the electrical field gradient. The field gradient may be established by means including variations in electrode thickness in the electrode that produces the electrical field gradient. The field gradient may be established by means including spatial orientation of the electrode in a z direction relative to a droplet operations surface of the droplet actuator.

As already noted the electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may include conductivity patterns established within the electrode. The electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may include two or more different conductive materials patterned to produce a predetermined field gradient. The electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may include a wire trace in which different regions the electrode that produces the electrical field gradient may include different densities of wire spacing.

The method may be controlled by a system. The system may control forming the sub droplet. The system may control the diameter of the necking region of the droplet. The system may control the footprint of the necking region of the droplet. The system may control the footprint of a portion of the necking region of the droplet. The system may include a processor programmed to control the supply of voltage to the one or more electrodes of the electrode configuration. The system may include a sensor coupled to the processor. The method may include monitoring an edge of the droplet during formation of the sub droplet using the sensor coupled to the processor. The method may include adjusting voltage applied to an electrode or electrode configuration based on the parameter sensed by the sensor. The processor may be configured to control the volume of the dispensed sub droplet by adjusting voltage of one or more electrodes of the electrode configuration in response to a sensed position of the edge of the droplet while forming of the sub droplet in order to locate the edge of the droplet at a predetermined position indicative of a desired sub droplet volume.

The invention provides a method of forming a sub droplet from a droplet the method including controllably reducing the diameter of a necking region of a droplet in a necking and splitting process. The sub droplet may have a predetermined volume.

The invention provides a method forming a sub droplet from a droplet the method including controllably expanding the volume of the droplet atop a terminal electrode and initiating a droplet splitting process at an intermediate electrode upon reaching a predetermined volume atop the terminal electrode. The sub droplet may have a predetermined volume.

The invention provides a method of forming a sub droplet the method including providing an elongated droplet spanning an electrode configuration including a first electrode and a second electrode the elongated droplet including a volume of liquid atop the first electrode and a volume of liquid atop the second electrode. The method may include controllably expanding the volume of the elongated droplet atop the second electrode. The method may include splitting the droplet at the first electrode to yield the sub droplet. The sub droplet may have a predetermined volume.

The invention provides a method of forming a sub droplet the method including providing an elongated droplet spanning an electrode configured to produce a field gradient including an intermediate region in which a relatively higher voltage may be required to effect electrowetting atop the intermediate region. The method may include applying a voltage to the electrode sufficient to cause a droplet to expand across the intermediate region. The method may include sufficiently reducing the voltage to cause the droplet to break at the intermediate region. The field gradient may be established by mans including electrode shape. The field gradient may be established by means including electrode thickness. The field gradient may be established by means including conductivity patterns established within the electrode. The electrode may include two or more different conductive materials patterned to produce a predetermined field gradient. The field gradient may be established by means including a wire trace in which different regions of the electrode configuration have different densities of wire spacing. The field gradient may be established by a means including a pattern of conductive material within the electrode. The field gradient may be established by a means including a pattern of nonconductive material within the electrode. The field gradient may be established by a means including a pattern of differently conductive material within the electrode. The electrode or electrode configuration may produce a patterned field gradient that effects a droplet operation upon activation deactivation or an adjustment in voltage.

The invention provides a method of forming a sub droplet the method including providing an elongated droplet spanning an electrode configuration including a terminal electrode region configured to produce a field gradient wherein droplet volume atop the terminal region may be incrementally increased by increasing voltage applied to the terminal region. The method may include applying a voltage to the electrode sufficient to cause a droplet to expand to a predetermined volume atop the terminal region. The method may include causing the droplet to break thereby forming a sub droplet atop the terminal region. The terminal region may be configured to permit increasing droplet volume atop the terminal region to a volume which may be greater than the volume of an adjacent unit sized droplet operations electrode. The field gradient may be established by mans including electrode shape. The field gradient may be established by means including electrode thickness. The field gradient may be established by means including conductivity patterns established within the electrode. The electrode may include two or more different conductive materials patterned to produce a predetermined field gradient. The field gradient may be established by means including a wire trace in which different regions of the electrode configuration have different densities of wire spacing. The field gradient may be established by a means including a pattern of conductive material within the electrode. The field gradient may be established by a means including a pattern of nonconductive material within the electrode. The field gradient may be established by a means including a pattern of differently conductive material within the electrode.

The invention provides a droplet actuator including a top substrate assembly including reservoir a bottom substrate assembly separated from the top substrate to form a gap electrodes associated with the top substrate assembly and or the bottom substrate assembly and configured to conduct one or more droplet operations and a fluid path. The fluid path may be configured for flowing fluid from the reservoir into the gap where the droplet may be subjected to one or more droplet operations mediated by one or more of the electrodes and or transporting fluid using the electrodes into contact with the opening and causing the fluid to substantially exit the gap and enter the reservoir.

The top substrate assembly may include a top substrate and a reservoir substrate associated with the top substrate and including the reservoir formed therein. The droplet actuator may include a reservoir electrode associated with the bottom substrate. The opening may overlap an edge of the reservoir electrode. The droplet actuator may include a first droplet operations electrode associated with the bottom substrate and adjacent to the reservoir electrode wherein the opening overlaps an edge of the first electrode and an edge of the droplet operations electrode. The droplet actuator may include a first droplet operations electrode associated with the bottom substrate and at least partially inset into the reservoir electrode wherein the opening overlaps an edge of the first electrode and an edge of the droplet operations electrode. The droplet actuator may be configured to facilitate flow of droplets from the gap into the reservoir. The reservoir may have a diameter which may be greater than about 1 mm. The reservoir may have a diameter which may be greater than about 2 mm. The reservoir may have a volume sufficient to hold a volume of liquid ranging from about 100 to about 300 mL. The reservoir may have a volume sufficient to hold a volume of liquid ranging from about 5 l to about 5000 L. The reservoir may have a volume sufficient to hold a volume of liquid ranging from about 10 L to about 2000 L. The reservoir may have a volume sufficient to hold a volume of liquid ranging from about 50 L to about 1500 L. The reservoir may have dimensions which may be substantially cylindrical. The opening may be substantially aligned about an axis of the cylindrical dimensions of the reservoir. The gap may include a filler fluid. The filler fluid may include an oil. The reservoir may include region having a reduced diameter relative to a main volume of the reservoir the region having a reduced diameter providing a fluid path between the main volume of the reservoir and the opening. The restricted region of the reservoir may have a height above the bottom substrate that exceeds the dead height corresponding to the dead volume of the restricted region of the reservoir. The main volume of the reservoir may have a height above the bottom substrate that exceeds the dead height corresponding to the dead volume of the main volume of the reservoir. The restricted region of the reservoir may have a first diameter and a first height above the bottom substrate the main volume of the reservoir may have a second diameter a second height above the bottom substrate and the first diameter first height second diameter and second height may be selected such that a liquid volume equal to substantially all of the volume of the main volume of the reservoir may be available for dispensing. The main volume of the reservoir may be elongated relative to a cylindrical main volume without substantially increasing dead volume relative to the corresponding cylindrical main volume.

The invention provides a method of transporting a droplet out of a droplet actuator gap. The method may include providing a droplet actuator including a top substrate assembly including reservoir a bottom substrate assembly separated from the top substrate to form a gap electrodes associated with the top substrate assembly and or the bottom substrate assembly and configured to conduct one or more droplet operations and a fluid path configured for flowing fluid from the gap into the reservoir. The method may include transporting fluid using the electrodes into contact with the opening and causing the fluid to substantially exit the gap and enter the reservoir.

The top substrate assembly may include a top substrate and a reservoir substrate associated with the top substrate and including the reservoir formed therein. A reservoir electrode may be associated with the bottom substrate. The opening may overlap an edge of the reservoir electrode. A first droplet operations electrode may be associated with the bottom substrate and adjacent to the reservoir electrode. The opening may overlap an edge of the first electrode and an edge of the droplet operations electrode. A first droplet operations electrode may be associated with the bottom substrate and at least partially inset into the reservoir electrode. The opening may overlap an edge of the first electrode and an edge of the droplet operations electrode.

The embodiments included in this Summary of the Invention are illustrative only. Further embodiments will be apparent to one of skill in the art upon review of this Summary of the Invention and the ensuing sections and claims.

 Activate with reference to one or more electrodes means effecting a change in the electrical state of the one or more electrodes which in the presence of a droplet results in a droplet operation.

 Bead with respect to beads on a droplet actuator means any bead or particle that is capable of interacting with a droplet on or in proximity with a droplet actuator. Beads may be any of a wide variety of shapes such as spherical generally spherical egg shaped disc shaped cubical and other three dimensional shapes. The bead may for example be capable of being transported in a droplet on a droplet actuator or otherwise configured with respect to a droplet actuator in a manner which permits a droplet on the droplet actuator to be brought into contact with the bead on the droplet actuator and or off the droplet actuator. Beads may be manufactured using a wide variety of materials including for example resins and polymers. The beads may be any suitable size including for example microbeads microparticles nanobeads and nanoparticles. In some cases beads are magnetically responsive in other cases beads are not significantly magnetically responsive. For magnetically responsive beads the magnetically responsive material may constitute substantially all of a bead or one component only of a bead. The remainder of the bead may include among other things polymeric material coatings and moieties which permit attachment of an assay reagent. Examples of suitable magnetically responsive beads are described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0260686 entitled Multiplex flow assays preferably with magnetic particles as solid phase published on Nov. 24 2005 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for its teaching concerning magnetically responsive materials and beads. The fluids may include one or more magnetically responsive and or non magnetically responsive beads. Examples of droplet actuator techniques for immobilizing magnetically responsive beads and or non magnetically responsive beads and or conducting droplet operations protocols using beads are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 639 566 entitled Droplet Based Particle Sorting filed on Dec. 15 2006 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 039 183 entitled Multiplexing Bead Detection in a Single Droplet filed on Mar. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 047 789 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Droplet Operations Using Beads filed on Apr. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 086 183 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods for Manipulating Beads filed on Aug. 5 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 053545 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods Employing Magnetic Beads filed on Feb. 11 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058018 entitled Bead based Multiplexed Analytical Methods and Instrumentation filed on Mar. 24 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058047 Bead Sorting on a Droplet Actuator filed on Mar. 23 2008 and International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

 Droplet means a volume of liquid on a droplet actuator that is at least partially bounded by filler fluid. For example a droplet may be completely surrounded by filler fluid or may be bounded by filler fluid and one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. Droplets may for example be aqueous or non aqueous or may be mixtures or emulsions including aqueous and non aqueous components. Droplets may be wholly or partially in a droplet actuator gap. Droplets may take a wide variety of shapes nonlimiting examples include generally disc shaped slug shaped truncated sphere ellipsoid spherical partially compressed sphere hemispherical ovoid cylindrical and various shapes formed during droplet operations such as merging or splitting or formed as a result of contact of such shapes with one or more surfaces of a droplet actuator. For examples of droplet fluids that may be subjected to droplet operations using the approach of the invention see International Patent Application No. PCT US 06 47486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006. In various embodiments a droplet may include a biological sample such as whole blood lymphatic fluid serum plasma sweat tear saliva sputum cerebrospinal fluid amniotic fluid seminal fluid vaginal excretion serous fluid synovial fluid pericardial fluid peritoneal fluid pleural fluid transudates exudates cystic fluid bile urine gastric fluid intestinal fluid fecal samples liquids containing single or multiple cells liquids containing organelles fluidized tissues fluidized organisms liquids containing multi celled organisms biological swabs and biological washes. Moreover a droplet may include a reagent such as water deionized water saline solutions acidic solutions basic solutions detergent solutions and or buffers. Other examples of droplet contents include reagents such as a reagent for a biochemical protocol such as a nucleic acid amplification protocol an affinity based assay protocol an enzymatic assay protocol a sequencing protocol and or a protocol for analyses of biological fluids.

 Droplet Actuator means a device for manipulating droplets. For examples of droplet actuators see U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 132 entitled Apparatus for Manipulating Droplets by Electrowetting Based Techniques issued on Jun. 28 2005 to Pamula et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 343 284 entitled Apparatuses and Methods for Manipulating Droplets on a Printed Circuit Board filed on filed on Jan. 30 2006 U.S. Pat. No. 6 773 566 entitled Electrostatic Actuators for Microfluidics and Methods for Using Same issued on Aug. 10 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 565 727 entitled Actuators for Microfluidics Without Moving Parts issued on Jan. 24 2000 both to Shenderov et al. Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Methods of the invention may be executed using droplet actuator systems e.g. as described in International Patent Application No. PCT US2007 009379 entitled Droplet manipulation systems filed on May 9 2007. In various embodiments the manipulation of droplets by a droplet actuator may be electrode mediated e.g. electrowetting mediated or dielectrophoresis mediated. Examples of other methods of controlling fluid flow that may be used in the droplet actuators of the invention include devices that induce hydrodynamic fluidic pressure such as those that operate on the basis of mechanical principles e.g. external syringe pumps pneumatic membrane pumps vibrating membrane pumps vacuum devices centrifugal forces and capillary action electrical or magnetic principles e.g. electroosmotic flow electrokinetic pumps piezoelectric ultrasonic pumps ferrofluidic plugs electrohydrodynamic pumps and magnetohydrodynamic pumps thermodynamic principles e.g. gas bubble generation phase change induced volume expansion other kinds of surface wetting principles e.g. electrowetting and optoelectrowetting as well as chemically thermally and radioactively induced surface tension gradient gravity surface tension e.g. capillary action electrostatic forces e.g. electroosmotic flow centrifugal flow substrate disposed on a compact disc and rotated magnetic forces e.g. oscillating ions causes flow magnetohydrodynamic forces and vacuum or pressure differential. In certain embodiments combinations of two or more of the foregoing techniques may be employed in droplet actuators of the invention.

 Droplet operation means any manipulation of a droplet on a droplet actuator. A droplet operation may for example include loading a droplet into the droplet actuator dispensing one or more droplets from a source droplet splitting separating or dividing a droplet into two or more droplets transporting a droplet from one location to another in any direction merging or combining two or more droplets into a single droplet diluting a droplet mixing a droplet agitating a droplet deforming a droplet retaining a droplet in position incubating a droplet heating a droplet vaporizing a droplet cooling a droplet disposing of a droplet transporting a droplet out of a droplet actuator other droplet operations described herein and or any combination of the foregoing. The terms merge merging combine combining and the like are used to describe the creation of one droplet from two or more droplets. It should be understood that when such a term is used in reference to two or more droplets any combination of droplet operations that are sufficient to result in the combination of the two or more droplets into one droplet may be used. For example merging droplet A with droplet B can be achieved by transporting droplet A into contact with a stationary droplet B transporting droplet B into contact with a stationary droplet A or transporting droplets A and B into contact with each other. The terms splitting separating and dividing are not intended to imply any particular outcome with respect to volume of the resulting droplets i.e. the volume of the resulting droplets can be the same or different or number of resulting droplets the number of resulting droplets may be 2 3 4 5 or more . The term mixing refers to droplet operations which result in more homogenous distribution of one or more components within a droplet. Examples of loading droplet operations include microdialysis loading pressure assisted loading robotic loading passive loading and pipette loading. Droplet operations may be electrode mediated. In some cases droplet operations are further facilitated by the use of hydrophilic and or hydrophobic regions on surfaces and or by physical obstacles.

 Filler fluid means a fluid associated with a droplet operations substrate of a droplet actuator which fluid is sufficiently immiscible with a droplet phase to render the droplet phase subject to electrode mediated droplet operations. The filler fluid may for example be a low viscosity oil such as silicone oil. Other examples of filler fluids are provided in International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 and in International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 072604 entitled Use of additives for enhancing droplet actuation filed on Aug. 8 2008. The filler fluid may fill the entire gap of the droplet actuator or may coat one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator.

 Immobilize with respect to magnetically responsive beads means that the beads are substantially restrained in position in a droplet or in filler fluid on a droplet actuator. For example in one embodiment immobilized beads are sufficiently restrained in position to permit execution of a splitting operation on a droplet yielding one droplet with substantially all of the beads and one droplet substantially lacking in the beads.

 Magnetically responsive means responsive to a magnetic field. Magnetically responsive beads include or are composed of magnetically responsive materials. Examples of magnetically responsive materials include paramagnetic materials ferromagnetic materials ferrimagnetic materials and metamagnetic materials. Examples of suitable paramagnetic materials include iron nickel and cobalt as well as metal oxides such as FeO BaFeO CoO NiO MnO CrO and CoMnP.

 Washing with respect to washing a magnetically responsive bead means reducing the amount and or concentration of one or more substances in contact with the magnetically responsive bead or exposed to the magnetically responsive bead from a droplet in contact with the magnetically responsive bead. The reduction in the amount and or concentration of the substance may be partial substantially complete or even complete. The substance may be any of a wide variety of substances examples include target substances for further analysis and unwanted substances such as components of a sample contaminants and or excess reagent. In some embodiments a washing operation begins with a starting droplet in contact with a magnetically responsive bead where the droplet includes an initial amount and initial concentration of a substance. The washing operation may proceed using a variety of droplet operations. The washing operation may yield a droplet including the magnetically responsive bead where the droplet has a total amount and or concentration of the substance which is less than the initial amount and or concentration of the substance. Examples of suitable washing techniques are described in Pamula et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 439 014 entitled Droplet Based Surface Modification and Washing granted on Oct. 21 2008 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The terms top bottom over under and on are used throughout the description with reference to the relative positions of components of the droplet actuator such as relative positions of top and bottom substrates of the droplet actuator. It will be appreciated that the droplet actuator is functional regardless of its orientation in space.

When a liquid in any form e.g. a droplet or a continuous body whether moving or stationary is described as being on at or over an electrode array matrix or surface such liquid could be either in direct contact with the electrode array matrix surface or could be in contact with one or more layers or films that are interposed between the liquid and the electrode array matrix surface.

When a droplet is described as being on or loaded on a droplet actuator it should be understood that the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates using the droplet actuator to conduct one or more droplet operations on the droplet the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates sensing of a property of or a signal from the droplet and or the droplet has been subjected to a droplet operation on the droplet actuator.

The invention provides droplet actuators and methods for conducting droplet operations on a droplet actuator. For example the invention provides droplet actuator configurations and techniques for improved droplet loading splitting and or dispensing in a droplet actuator. The droplet actuators of the invention may in some cases include various modified electrode configurations. In some embodiments the droplet actuators and methods of the invention are useful for dispensing droplets having a varied volume e.g. analog metering of droplets . In some embodiments the droplet actuators of the invention are useful for dispensing droplets having more accurate and or precise volumes by controlling the drainage of the droplet during the droplet formation process. In some embodiments the droplet actuator and methods of the invention a useful for facilitating staged droplet dispensing. Certain embodiments make use of an electrode configuration that employs one or more physical structures for assisting with the droplet splitting operation. Priming operations are also provided. The invention also provides a droplet actuator that uses a reservoir associated with the top substrate for operations fluid input output I O . Examples of embodiments of the operations fluid I O mechanisms of the invention may include a droplet actuator that has a reservoir electrode feeding an arrangement of electrodes e.g. electrowetting electrodes a top substrate that has a opening positioned in relation to the reservoir electrode and a reservoir substrate that has a reservoir that is positioned in relation to the opening in the top substrate. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the ensuing discussion in light of the definitions provided above.

Dispensing electrodes may be configured for dispensing a droplet within a certain range of droplet volumes. In the embodiment illustrated the dispensing electrodes include electrode that has a standard droplet operations electrode geometry an electrode that has a standard droplet operations geometry with a notch or indention therein and a generally triangular shaped electrode . The narrow end of triangular shaped electrode is oriented toward reservoir electrode and situated within the notch or indentation of electrode . The wide end of triangular shaped electrode is in proximity with a path of droplet operations electrodes e.g. dielectrophoresis or electrowetting electrodes such as electrodes and . The electrode configuration is aligned along an axis which passes through a center of each of the electrodes in the configuration though it will be appreciated that a straight linear axis is helpful but not required for the operation of the invention.

The length of the droplet extension depends on the voltage applied to triangular shaped electrode . Increasing the voltage applied increases the length of the droplet extension . For example when a voltage V is applied to triangular shaped electrode the droplet extension extends a certain distance. When a voltage V which is greater than voltage V is applied to triangular shaped electrode the droplet extension extends a certain greater distance. When a voltage V which is greater than voltage V is applied to triangular shaped electrode the droplet extension extends a certain greater distance still. Voltage may be varied in discrete steps and or in an analog fashion.

Referring to once the droplet extension extends to a desired distance on the droplet operations surface one or both of electrodes and may be deactivated while triangular shaped electrode remains activated. The deactivation of the intermediate electrodes causes a droplet to be formed atop triangular shaped electrode . The volume of droplet depends on the voltage applied at triangular shaped electrode . For example when voltage V is applied to triangular shaped electrode droplet is a certain volume. When voltage V which is greater than voltage V is applied to triangular shaped electrode droplet has a certain greater volume. When a voltage V which is greater than voltage V is applied to triangular shaped electrode droplet is a certain greater volume still.

The aspect of the invention that is illustrated in provides a method to vary the volume of dispensed droplets on the droplet actuator. The volume may be varied in an analog fashion or a digital fashion. The method makes use of a set of droplet dispensing electrodes including one or more intermediate electrodes and an elongated terminal electrode. By varying the voltage applied to the elongated terminal electrode the volume of dispensed droplets may be controllably varied. The elongated terminal electrode may be configured in any manner which permits the length of the droplet extension to be controlled atop the elongated electrode. For example the control may be effected by controlling voltage supplied to the elongated electrode. In alternative embodiments the terminal electrode may be laterally elongated or both laterally and axially relative to the axis of the electrode path elongated.

The elongated electrode may be generally triangular having an apex pointed towards the region in which the droplet splits away from the parent droplet during dispensing. Other tapering electrode shapes such as trapezoids e.g. an isosceles trapezoid trapeziums elongated pentagons elongated hexagons and other elongated polygonal e.g. elongated polygons that are generally symmetrical with respect to a centrally located axis extending along the length of the elongated polygon shapes may be used. In the triangular embodiment illustrated increasing the voltage applied to the triangular shaped electrode causes the droplet extension to extend away from the apex towards the wide end of the triangle. Thus by simply controlling the voltage on that dispensing electrode a longer or shorter droplet extension may be formed and the volume of the dispensed droplet may be controlled.

The control may in some cases be effected by a field gradient produced across the electrode. For example the field gradient may cause a lengthening in the droplet extension as voltage is increased. Examples of other techniques for establishing a field gradient across the electrode are gradients in the dielectric constant of the dielectric material atop the electrode caused by doping or thickness of the dielectric material using various electrode patterns or shapes. Examples are discussed below. The terminal electrode may be provided in any configuration or include any structure or shape which causes the length of the droplet extension to depend on the characteristics of the terminal electrode such as the voltage applied to the terminal electrode. For example the electrode may be vertically thicker at one terminus then at the other terminus. Further various embodiments may be provided in which one or more counter electrodes are also utilized to control the length of the droplet extension across the terminal electrode.

The volume control facilitated by the novel dispensing techniques described herein has a wide variety of uses. In one example droplet volume control facilitates variable ratio mixing. Instead of executing multiple complex droplet operations in a binary mixing tree to produce droplets having the desired mixing ratio droplets having the desired volume may simply be dispensed and combined. For example if a mixing ratio of 1.7 to 1 is desired a droplet having a volume of 1.7 units may be dispensed and combined with a droplet having volume of 1 unit.

In some embodiments the extension of the droplet extension along the elongated electrode may be further controlled by detecting the extent of the droplet extension and effecting droplet formation when the droplet extension has achieved a certain predetermined length. Examples of such detection modalities include visual detection detection based on imaging and various detection techniques based on electrical properties of the droplet extension e.g. electrical properties of the droplet extension relative to the surrounding filler fluid . For example capacitance detection techniques may be used in some embodiments for determining or monitoring the droplet extension length.

Feedback mechanisms may be used to control the formation of droplets such as splitting or dispensing of droplets. For example feedback mechanisms may be used in a droplet formation process to control the volume of a sub droplet. Formation of new droplets requires the formation and breaking of a meniscus connecting the two liquid bodies generally referred to herein as necking and splitting respectively. A feedback mechanism can be used to monitor the shape and position of the droplet and or meniscus to determine whether breaking would result in unequal or out of specification droplet volumes. Adjustments can then be made to voltage and or timing of adjustments to voltage. For example impedance sensing may be used to monitor the capacitive loading of the electrowetting electrode to infer droplet overlap and by inference the volume supported by each electrode in the electrode splitting process. Other feedback mechanisms such as image analysis are also suitable for use in the present invention. Feedback may be used to dynamically alter the applied voltage in magnitude frequency and or shape to result in more controlled droplet formation.

In one embodiment capacitance at the elongated terminal electrode may be monitored to determine the volume of the droplet extension and the one or more intermediate electrodes may be deactivated when the extension has reached a predetermined length sufficient to create a droplet having a desired droplet volume. For examples of suitable capacitance detection techniques see Sturmer et al. International Patent Publication No. WO 2008 101194 entitled Capacitance Detection in a Droplet Actuator published on Aug. 21 2008 and Kale et al. International Patent Publication No. WO 2002 080822 entitled System and Method for Dispensing Liquids published on Oct. 17 2002 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. In another embodiment impedance of the advancing contact line can be monitored by using electrodes that are separate from the electrodes used for manipulation of droplets. For example elongated electrodes along the sides of electrodes and can be utilized to monitor the impedance of the advancing droplet. These elongated impedance measurement electrodes may be dedicated for measurement of impedance and they can be either strictly coplanar with the droplet operations electrodes or substantially coplanar or in another plane such as on the top plate.

In some embodiments variability in droplet volume is established using an intermediate electrode or electrode assembly rather than the terminal electrode. For example referring to dispensing configuration or includes a dispensing electrode an intermediate electrode for causing the droplet to split which may in other embodiments have any of the other intermediate or droplet splitting electrode configurations described herein a laterally extended electrode or electrode configuration and a terminal electrode . Electrode or electrode configuration is laterally extended relative to the other electrodes in dispensing configuration or . Dispensing configuration may be associated with one or more additional droplet operations electrodes . In an alternative embodiment the orientation of electrode may be reversed i.e. with the apex oriented distally with respect reservoir electrode and the wide end oriented proximally with respect to reservoir electrode .

In the embodiment illustrated the electrodes in the set are activated to cause the droplet to extend along the electrodes of dispensing configuration and onto terminal electrode . In dispensing configuration droplet volume may be controlled by selectively applying voltage to one or more sub electrodes of electrode configuration . In dispensing configuration droplet volume may be controlled by varying the voltage applied to electrode increasing the voltage increases the area of the laterally extended electrode that is covered by the droplet. When a predetermined volume has been reached e.g. as observed or as calculated intermediate electrode is deactivated causing the droplet to be formed on the laterally extended electrode or electrode configuration and terminal electrode . The laterally extended electrode may have any variety of shapes. For example it may be circular ovular rectangular diamond shaped star shaped hourglass shaped etc. Any of the various techniques for creating a field gradient described herein with respect to the terminal electrode may also be used with respect to the laterally extended intermediate electrode. The various techniques may also be combined in a single electrode configuration and or with respect to a single electrode. For example the electric field may be controlled with dielectric doping dielectric thickness electrode doping electrode thickness and or electrode shape. The laterally extended intermediate electrode may be extended in one or both directions relative to an axis of the electrode set. Additional electrodes may be inserted between the electrodes described in the specifically illustrated examples without departing from the invention.

In another alternative embodiment rather than changing the voltage at an electrode in order to create an electric field gradient the gradient is produced by applying a predetermined voltage for predetermined period of time. Of course combinations of the two approaches are also within the scope of the invention. This approach is suitable for the terminal elongated electrode technique as well as the intermediate laterally extended electrode technique. The timing of the applied voltage may establish a particular droplet extension length prior to droplet formation. In this manner a droplet having a predetermined volume may be dispensed. Because the transport time of the droplet extension may be predetermined timing may be used to dispense a droplet having a predetermined volume. As an example the timing of the applied voltage at the elongated or laterally extended electrode may be used for determining the droplet extension volume which determines the droplet volume. Because the transport time of the droplet extension from one end of the elongated electrode to the other end may be predetermined timing may be used to dispense a droplet having a predetermined volume. Similarly because the time it takes the droplet to cover the laterally extended electrode varies with time the volume can be predicted based on the duration of electrode activation. In various other embodiments timing of voltage applied may be combined with changes in voltage in order to determine the length of the droplet extension and thereby determine the volume of the droplet dispensed.

The invention provides related embodiments in which the electric field gradient is established by electrode shape and or means other than electrode shape. In addition to shape a patterned field gradient may be mediated by the electrical characteristics of the electrode and or electrical characteristics of materials associated with the electrode such as dielectric and or other coatings atop the electrode. The electrode itself may be patterned e.g. as illustrated by electrode in . The electrode may be composed of different conductive materials patterned to provide a desired patterned field gradient. Conductive and or non conductive materials with differing electrical conductivity may be patterned to form a single electrode which produces a patterned field gradient. Similarly conductive materials with differing electrical conductivity may be patterned to form a single electrode which produces a patterned field gradient.

Materials associated with an electrode may be patterned in a manner which produces a patterned field gradient. The dielectric material situated atop the electrode may be patterned to establish a dielectric topography in which various regions atop an electrode have different dielectric constants. The dielectric topography may thus produce a patterned field gradient. Patterning of dielectric materials atop the electrode may be based on thickness patterns established in the dielectric material. Materials with different dielectric constants may be patterned atop the electrode to establish the dielectric topography.

Among other things the techniques for establishing patterned field gradients may be used to mimic the effects of droplet operations conducted on groups of electrodes or droplet operations produced by specially shaped electrodes. The patterned field gradient may exhibit characteristics which mimic the electric field produced by electrodes having certain shapes non limiting examples of which include electrode of electrode configuration of electrode of electrode of electrode of . The patterned field gradient may exhibit characteristics which mimic electrode configurations such as electrode configuration of electrode configuration of electrode configuration of electrode configuration of electrode configuration of and various combinations of electrodes and of . Similarly various standard electrode configurations for conducting droplet operations described here and known in the art may be replaced or supplemented with techniques that effect a patterned field gradient such as those techniques described here. For example field gradients may be produced which effect loading of a droplet into the droplet actuator dispensing of one or more droplets from a source droplet splitting separating or dividing a droplet into two or more droplets transporting a droplet from one location to another in any direction merging or combining two or more droplets into a single droplet diluting a droplet mixing a droplet agitating a droplet deforming a droplet retaining a droplet in a specific position incubating a droplet heating a droplet vaporizing a droplet cooling a droplet disposing of a droplet transporting a droplet out of a droplet actuator and various combinations of the foregoing. As an example in a droplet splitting operation a field gradient across three electrodes may be established such that at a first higher voltage an elongated droplet will form along the elongated electrode and at a second lower voltage the droplet will split yielding two daughter droplets.

In one embodiment the field gradient is patterned to effect controllable droplet extension over time or with changes in voltage applied to the electrode e.g. as described with respect to electrode of . For example a field gradient at a terminal electrode may vary in a manner which effects controllable droplet extension over time or with changes in voltage applied to the electrode. In another example a terminal electrode may be configured using a trace technique such as that described with respect to electrode of which effects controllable droplet extension over time or with changes in voltage applied to the electrode.

The embodiment shown in is illustrative of a variety of embodiments in which necking is controlled during droplet dispensing in order to produce one or more daughter droplets having a predetermined volume. In these embodiments a path of droplet operations electrodes is provided. The path includes one or more intermediate electrode configurations. Droplet splitting occurs at the intermediate electrode configurations. The intermediate electrode configurations are configured to permit a multi step droplet necking and splitting operation. Generally speaking the controlled necking and splitting is effected by sequentially deactivating electrodes beginning with electrodes adjacent to an edge of the droplet such as electrodes and and continuing to centrally positioned electrodes such as electrode .

The invention provides related embodiments in which the electric field is controllably manipulated to reduce the electric field from an outer edge of the region of the neck of the droplet towards a central region of the neck of the droplet thereby yielding a similarly controlled necking and splitting process. For example in some embodiments a single intermediate electrode may be provided and the dielectric material atop the intermediate electrode may establish a dielectric topography which effects controllable necking and splitting as voltage at the intermediate electrode is reduced. In another embodiment a single intermediate electrode may be provided and the electrode itself may be doped patterned shaped and or spatially oriented in a manner which effects controllable necking and splitting as voltage at the intermediate electrode is reduced. In yet another technique the splitting electrode may be configured using a trace technique such as that described with respect to to provide controllable necking as voltage is reduced on the electrode.

The patterned field gradient techniques described herein may be used to effect a stepwise controlled necking and splitting process similar to the process effected by electrode configuration . For example electrode may be replaced with a standard droplet operations electrode such as electrode . The patterned field gradient techniques may produce an electric field which at a first higher voltage causes the droplet to elongate across the three electrodes as illustrated in . At a second reduced voltage the droplet conforms to a second electrowetting pattern which is similar to the pattern illustrated in . At a third voltage reduced still further or deactivated the neck breaks forming 2 daughter droplets on the flanking electrodes as illustrated in . Similarly the patterned field gradient techniques may be used to effect an analog or substantially analog necking and splitting process in which the droplet neck gradually narrows and then breaks as voltage to the electrode is reduced in an analog or substantially analog fashion.

Necking electrodes are generally shaped in a manner which permits them to mimic the curve of the edge of the neck of a droplet during a splitting operation. In the embodiment illustrated three necking electrodes A B and C are provided on either side of a central necking electrode . Necking electrodes are generally convex in the direction of the edge of the neck of the droplet. Where a central necking electrode is present necking electrodes may be generally convex in a direction which is away from necking electrode . Where a central necking electrode is not present necking electrodes may be generally convex away from a central axis extending from a centrally located point on electrode A to a centrally located point on electrode B. Central necking electrode is generally symmetrical and centrally located relative to necking electrodes . In the embodiment illustrated central necking electrode is generally linear however it will be appreciated that other geometries are possible within the scope of the invention. For example central necking electrode may have an hourglass shape similar to electrode in . Central necking electrode may also be I shaped e.g. as illustrated in below.

Compared with intermediate electrode configuration of intermediate electrode configuration of shows a finer pattern of electrodes i.e. finer gradient . Each electrode segment of intermediate electrode configuration is independently controlled or alternatively matching sets may be independently controlled together. For example electrodes A on either side of intermediate electrode may be controlled together electrodes B may be controlled together and electrode C may be controlled together. As a result the deactivation of each electrode pair during the droplet formation may be effected in a deactivation sequence selected to control the neck volume i.e. drainage of the elongated droplet not shown .

In operation all of electrodes A B and some or all of intermediate electrodes may be activated to elongate a droplet across electrode configuration . Intermediate electrodes may be sequentially deactivated to controllably cause a neck and split droplet formation operation.

For example electrodes A may be deactivated followed by electrodes B followed by electrodes C followed by central necking electrode . As each set of electrodes is sequentially deactivated the diameter of the neck of the elongated droplet gradually narrows and is broken. Controlling the drainage of liquid from the neck of the droplet during the droplet splitting operation may enhance the accuracy and or precision of dispensed droplet volumes. Either of electrodes and may be replaced with a larger reservoir electrode. Additional electrodes may be inserted between the electrodes described in the specifically illustrated example without departing from the invention.

Electrode configuration includes electrodes A and B e.g. electrowetting electrodes . An intermediate electrode configuration is arranged between electrodes A and B. Intermediate electrode configuration includes a set of geometrically similar triangular shaped electrodes . Electrodes are arranged to form a square. It will be appreciated that various alternative arrangements are possible. More than four triangular electrodes may be used. The triangular electrodes may be elongated or shortened relative to the triangular electrodes shown in e.g. an elongated configuration is shown in .

As illustrated intermediate electrode configuration includes electrodes A and electrodes B. Electrodes A are configured to help control the necking of the elongated droplet during a droplet splitting operation. Electrodes A include outer edges that are generally parallel with each other and generally parallel with and contiguous with the outer edge of the elongated droplet. Electrodes A each have an apex which is pointed towards a generally central point within intermediate electrode configuration . Electrodes B at a configuration which is generally identical to the configuration of electrodes A except that electrodes B are arranged at a right angle relative to electrodes A. Together electrodes A and electrodes B form an intermediate electrode configuration which is generally square shaped. In an alternative embodiment the overall shape of the configuration may be hourglass shaped e.g. similar to electrode in or H shaped e.g. similar to electrode in .

Each electrode of intermediate electrode configuration may be independently controlled. Alternatively electrodes A may be controlled together while electrodes B may be controlled together. Deactivation of electrodes A during droplet formation assists in the control of droplet necking and splitting. In a splitting operation electrodes A B and electrode configuration may be activated to cause an elongated droplet to extend across electrode configuration . Electrodes A may be deactivated to initiate necking. Electrodes B may be deactivated to effect droplet splitting yielding two daughter droplets. Similar embodiments with a greater number of triangular electrodes can readily be envisioned by one of skill in the art in light of the instant disclosure.

As with other examples the lateral draining and droplet formation may be further controlled by detecting the volume of the droplet being formed extent of necking or other parameters and effecting droplet formation in a manner which precisely controls the volume of the resulting droplet. Examples of such detection modalities include visual detection detection based on imaging and various detection techniques based on electrical properties of the droplet extension e.g. electrical properties of the droplet extension relative to the surrounding filler fluid . For example capacitance detection techniques may be used in some embodiments for determining or monitoring the lateral draining and or droplet formation. Voltage to the necking electrode or electrode configuration may for example be controlled based on the detected volume of the droplet being dispensed.

Although the configurations illustrated in are described with respect to droplet splitting operations in which two daughter droplets are formed having substantially similar volumes similar configurations may be used for droplet dispensing operations. Generally speaking and in droplet dispensing operations the lateral electrodes e.g. A and B will have different sizes. For example one outer electrode may have the size and shape of a reservoir electrode while the other may be a standard droplet operations electrode.

Further while the examples are shown having a single intermediate electrode configuration multiple intermediate electrode configurations are possible. For example in one embodiment an electrode path includes multiple droplet operations electrodes interspersed with one or more intermediate electrode configurations. All electrodes within the group may be activated to cause a droplet to extend along the electrode path. Intermediate electrode configurations such as those described with reference to may then be deactivated in a stepwise manner to controllably cause the formation of multiple droplets. As with other configurations alternative techniques such as electrode doping dielectric doping electrode thickness dielectric thickness trace electrodes counter electrodes and other techniques may be used to mimic the controllable splitting effected by the described electrode configurations.

In one embodiment second droplet dispensing configuration has one or more features which differ from the features of first droplet dispensing configuration . For example second droplet dispensing configuration may include a reservoir electrode which has a size that is different relative to the size of the reservoir electrode of first droplet dispensing configuration . Similarly second droplet dispensing configuration may include droplet operations electrodes which have a size that is different from the size of droplet operations electrodes of first droplet dispensing configuration . As another example second droplet dispensing configuration may include a gap having a height which is different than the height of the gap of first droplet dispensing configuration . In various embodiments some or all of these size differences are present.

Similarly in certain embodiment second droplet dispensing configuration has one or more features which are smaller the corresponding features of first droplet dispensing configuration . For example second droplet dispensing configuration may include a reservoir electrode which has a size that is smaller relative to the size of the reservoir electrode of first droplet dispensing configuration . Similarly second droplet dispensing configuration may include droplet operations electrodes which have a size that is smaller relative to the size of droplet operations electrodes of first droplet dispensing configuration . As another example second droplet dispensing configuration may include a gap having a height which is smaller relative to the height of the gap of first droplet dispensing configuration . In various embodiments some or all of these size differences are present.

In another embodiment second droplet dispensing configuration has features which are substantially identical to the features of first droplet dispensing configuration .

Where the gap height of second droplet dispensing configuration differ from the gap height of first droplet dispensing configuration the difference in height may be effected using a variety of means. In one example the topology of gap may vary by varying the topology of top substrate . For example the thickness of top substrate may vary at a transition point e.g. a step such that top substrate has a certain thickness in the region of first droplet dispensing configuration and a different thickness in the region of second droplet dispensing configuration . In this example the height of gap may be inversely proportional to the thickness of top substrate . Consequently gap has a certain height in the region of first droplet dispensing configuration and a different height in the region of second droplet dispensing configuration .

Because the volume of droplets that are dispensed within droplet actuator is proportional to the features of the droplet dispensing configurations such as droplet operations electrode size and or gap height droplets having different volumes may be dispensed from the differently sized droplet dispensing configurations. For example in one embodiment first droplet dispensing configuration is configured to dispense droplets having a larger volume than droplets dispensed from second droplet dispensing configuration . In this manner large droplets may be dispensed from first droplet dispensing configuration and transported onto reservoir electrode of second droplet dispensing configuration . Relatively smaller droplets may be dispensed from second droplet dispensing configuration .

In this way droplet actuator provides a mechanism for staged droplet dispensing where in this example each successive stage produces a smaller droplet than the previous stage. Droplet actuator is not limited to two droplet dispensing stages only. Droplet actuator may include any number of droplet dispensing stages and thereby provide multiple stages for progressing to smaller and smaller droplets. In this manner scaling from larger fluid volume and larger droplets to smaller fluid volume and smaller droplets may be achieved in the same droplet actuator.

Further the volume of a droplet dispensed may depend on the volume of liquid atop the dispensing electrode. The staged dispensing approach of the invention may be used to maintain the volume of liquid volume atop the second dispensing electrode within a predetermined range in order to maintain the droplets dispensed from the second dispensing electrode within a predetermined droplet volume. Maintaining the droplets dispensed from the second dispensing electrode within a predetermined droplet volume may result in greater accuracy and or precision of droplets dispensed using the second dispensing configuration .

In operation electrodes and may be used to dispense daughter droplets having a first volume from droplet . Various techniques for dispensing daughter droplets from a parent droplet using a reservoir electrode and droplet dispensing electrodes may be used. In one such technique electrodes and are activated to extend the parent droplet along the path of electrodes . An intermediate one or more of electrodes may be deactivated to yield a daughter droplet on the path of electrodes . Intermediate electrodes designed for controllable necking and splitting may be used in this embodiment as well. Terminal electrodes designed for controlling dispensed volume may also be included. The daughter droplet may be transported using droplet operations onto reservoir electrode .

In this manner reservoir electrode maybe controllably supplied with liquid. The volume of droplet may thus be established within a predetermined range in order to improve the precision and or accuracy of droplet dispensing from droplet dispensing configuration . Similarly in embodiments in which gap and or droplet operations electrodes are smaller along second droplet dispensing configuration relative to droplet operations electrodes along droplet dispensing configuration a smaller volume droplet may be dispensed from droplet dispensing configuration . In one example the droplets that are formed along first droplet dispensing configuration may have microliter volumes and the droplets that are formed along second droplet dispensing configuration may have nanoliter volumes.

In operation when an elongated droplet is transported along the grid of electrodes obstacle intersects elongated droplet causing elongated droplet to split into two droplets . More specifically in a first step elongated droplet is formed across three electrodes . In a second step elongated droplet is transported via electrowetting operations along electrodes and toward obstacle . In a third step obstacle intersects the elongated droplet . In a fourth step the transport of elongated droplet along electrodes continues until a split occurs due to the action of obstacle which results in the formation of two daughter droplets . Obstacle produces a reproducible splitting action that results in daughter droplets each having an approximately identical volume.

In an alternative embodiment elongated droplet may span any number of electrodes and or electrodes may have any of a variety of sizes so that the elongated droplet may be split via obstacle at any of a range of points along elongated droplet . In other words the point at which the droplet splits may be varied to yield daughter droplets e.g. a 2 1 split ratio a 3 1 split ratio a 4 1 split ratio etc. The physical barrier may be an elongated barrier such as the one illustrated in or a shorter barrier such as a column extending from the bottom substrate to the top substrate of the droplet actuator. The physical barrier may extend from the bottom substrate to the top substrate of the physical barrier or may fill any sufficient space therebetween to cause droplet splitting. Electrodes may be omitted from the region of the physical barrier as illustrated in in other cases electrodes may underlie the physical barrier.

In operation initially the path of electrodes e.g. electrodes and are all activated and a droplet extension flows from reservoir electrode along electrodes and . Lateral electrodes are initially deactivated. Once the droplet extension is formed a droplet may be dispensed at electrode by the activating intermediate electrode which is the intermediate electrode and activating the two lateral electrodes .

A variety of activation sequences of possible. Lateral electrodes may be activated followed by deactivation of intermediate electrode . Lateral electrodes may be activated substantially simultaneously with the deactivation of intermediate electrodes . Any activation sequence which reliably yields a droplet at electrode may be used in accordance with the invention.

Lateral electrodes may provide pulling action which assists the droplet formation at electrode . Lateral electrodes may provide locations to which liquid may drain also assisting with the droplet splitting operation. Controlling the drainage of liquid from the neck of the droplet during the droplet splitting operation may enhance the accuracy and or precision of dispensed droplet volumes. In an alternative configuration electrodes may be joined with electrode as a single lateral draining electrode.

As with other examples the control of draining may be effected by a field gradient produced across the lateral draining electrode. For example the field gradient may cause a lengthening in the droplet extension across the lateral draining electrode as voltage is increased. Examples of other techniques for establishing a field gradient across the lateral electrode are gradients in the dielectric constant of the dielectric material atop the electrode caused by doping or thickness of the dielectric material using various electrode patterns or shapes. The lateral draining electrode may be provided in any configuration or include any structure or shape which causes the length of the droplet extension to depend on the characteristics of the terminal electrode such as the voltage applied to the terminal electrode. For example the electrode may be vertically thicker centrally and thinner towards the lateral extensions. Further various embodiments may be provided in which one or more counter electrodes are also utilized to control the length of the droplet extension across the terminal electrode.

As with other examples the lateral draining and droplet formation may be further controlled by detecting the extent of the droplet extension and effecting droplet formation when the droplet extension has achieved a certain predetermined length. Examples of such detection modalities include visual detection detection based on imaging and various detection techniques based on electrical properties of the droplet extension e.g. electrical properties of the droplet extension relative to the surrounding filler fluid . For example capacitance detection techniques may be used in some embodiments for determining or monitoring the lateral draining and or droplet formation. Voltage to the lateral draining electrode or electrodes may for example be controlled based on the detected volume of the droplet being dispensed.

In operation electrodes e.g. electrodes and are activated to form droplet extension as liquid from reservoir electrode and reservoir electrode flows along electrodes and . Upon formation of the droplet extension a droplet may be dispensed at electrode by deactivating intermediate electrode . Electrode may remain activated to provide a pulling action which assists the droplet splitting operation. Consequently a droplet not shown may be formed at electrodes and

The invention provides a recessed region such as a divot in the droplet operations surface and or in the top surface . Recessed region may be situated atop one of more of the droplet operations electrodes. For example as illustrated recessed region is situated atop electrode . Recessed region may be configured in a manner which stabilizes a droplet atop the electrode. For example recessed region may be configured in a manner which stabilizes a droplet atop the electrode during a droplet splitting operation.

Recessed region may be any variation in the physical topology at the surface of the substrate generally atop an electrode in a manner which enhances stability of a droplet at the electrode relative to a corresponding configuration which lacks the recessed region. Any configuration which provides a recessed region sufficient to enhance stability of a droplet at the electrode will suffice. The size and shape of the recessed region may vary. The recessed region may correspond generally with the shape and size of the associated electrode however it is not necessary for the shape and size of the recessed region to exactly correspond with the shape and size of the associated electrode. Sufficient overlap to provide enhanced stability of the droplet that the electrode will suffice. The size and shape of the recessed region may be selected to enhance the accuracy and or precision of dispensed droplet volumes.

Multiple recessed regions may be provided. For example a recessed region may be provided atop electrodes not shown and as shown . A droplet may be provided atop activated electrodes and . Electrode may be deactivated to cause splitting of the droplet yielding to daughter droplets one in recessed region atop electrode and another in the recessed region not shown atop electrode . The size and shape of the recessed regions may be selected to enhance the accuracy and or precision of the daughter droplet volumes.

A variety of alternative configurations will be apparent to one of skill in the art on consideration of the disclosure provided herein. For example the recessed region may in some embodiments be associated with multiple electrodes. A recessed region may be associate with 2 3 4 or more electrodes. A droplet splitting operation may produce a droplet which lies atop 2 3 4 or more electrodes within such an extended recessed region. In another embodiment a single droplet actuator may include a variety of recessed regions having different sizes and or associated with different numbers of electrodes. The recessed region may be provided as an indentation in the dielectric layer. The region may be provided as an indentation in the dielectric layer and the electrode. The region may be provided as an indentation in the dielectric layer the electrode and the substrate material. The region may be provided as an indentation in the dielectric layer and the substrate material. A recessed region may be provided in the bottom substrate the top substrate or both top and bottom substrates.

It will be appreciated that the trace electrode in these configurations may be replaced with other electrodes described herein for controlling necking and splitting. Other techniques described herein for creating a field gradient may be used to replace the trace electrode. Further as with other embodiments droplet formation and related parameters may be monitored and voltage applied to the splitting electrode may be controlled to enhance precision and or accuracy of dispensed droplet volume.

Various parameters in the configuration may be adjusted to control dispensing results. Examples of such parameters include the gap h between bottom substrate and top substrate the width w of reservoir electrode the diameter D of opening in top substrate the diameter D of reservoir and the general geometry of reservoir the height H of operations fluid in the reservoir the surface tension o of filler fluid the surface tension F of operations fluid the interfacial tension LO of operations fluid with filler fluid the critical surface tension solid of droplet actuator surfaces the liquid contact angle s on droplet actuator surface the critical surface tension well of reservoir substrate wall the liquid contact angle w on the reservoir substrate wall the applied voltage V the contact angle V at the applied voltage the applied voltage type i.e. AC or DC the oil meniscus level the position of the opening in the top substrate in relation to the reservoir electrode and the electrode switching sequence.

Depending on the function of the reservoir i.e. input or output it may be beneficial to adjust the opening in the top substrate and the reservoir relative to the reservoir electrode. For example in order to act as a waste reservoir the opening is preferably positioned overlapping the first electrode that is adjacent to the reservoir electrode e.g. as illustrated in . A combination of this opening position and the electrode switching sequence used in the disposal operation prevents any inadvertent dispensing from this reservoir.

The waste reservoir may be made as large as possible to accommodate a large volume of waste. Making the reservoir large lowers the pressure at the reservoir which allows the discarded liquids to easily flow into the reservoir and prevents inadvertent dispensing from the waste reservoir. More details of one example reservoir position are described with reference to .

In a simpler embodiment the opening in the top substrate substantially overlaps the first electrode and the reservoir electrode is not necessary. In this case the switching sequence for 1 droplets is OFF ON ON OFF OFF OFF and the switching sequence for a 2 droplet is ON ON ON OFF OFF OFF. Alternatively the 1 or 2 droplet switching sequence may be used for larger droplets. This embodiment may also be used with a fourth electrode not shown for dispensing droplets e.g. using a switching sequence ON ON OFF OFF ON ON ON OFF ON OFF OFF ON.

Another example switching sequence is ON ON OFF OFF ON ON ON OFF OFF ON ON ON ON OFF OFF ON. The third state OFF ON ON ON with the reservoir electrode OFF allows for the finger to be extended easily up to the 4electrode. In typical operation this state is maintained for only a fraction of a second e.g. about or about sec .

In order to enter the waste well the droplet must first overcome the pressure difference between the reservoir and the top substrate opening and then overcome the pressure difference between the opening and the inside of the droplet actuator. These pressure differences may be overcome by the hydrostatic head created by the droplet.

The invention also provides embodiments in which the reservoir diameter is large enough to accept small medium and large volume pipette tips without having to use specialized small diameter gel loading tips. In some embodiments the reservoir diameter should be larger than about 1 millimeter mm In order to further avoid wetting of the top surface of the reservoir substrate the diameter of the reservoir may be larger depending for example on the volume of liquid to be loaded. A reservoir diameter that is greater than or equal to about 2 mm is sufficient a large range of input volumes e.g. from about 5 l to about 5000 L or from about 10 L to about 2000 L or from about 50 L to about 1500 L.

In one configuration the reservoir is cylindrical. The reservoir may be centered around the opening in the top substrate as shown in droplet actuator of . The diameter of the opening in the top substrate is typically between about 1 mm and about 2 mm. The reservoir substrate diameter is typically greater than or equal to about 1.5 mm. The hydrostatic head that is required increases with the diameter but asymptotically approaches a constant value that is a function of the liquid oil interfacial tension liquid solid contact angle applied voltage and gap between the top substrate and the bottom substrate. There is also a hydrostatic head which when exceeded may cause the liquid to spontaneously flow into the gap between the bottom and top substrate. It is preferable to keep the head below this value.

The graph shown in shows typical behavior of the hydrostatic head requirement while varying the diameter of the reservoir well. The head required asymptotically approaches a constant value with increasing diameter. The region between the two curves with and without voltage is the preferred region for dispensing. A head less than the lower curve may interfere with loading of liquid into the droplet actuator and a head greater than the upper curve may cause causes liquid to flow in spontaneously. The dead volume increases with diameter however the number of droplets per additional mm of liquid also increases correspondingly. For a given reservoir substrate height this means that the number of droplets increases.

Table 1 below shows experimental data for two different opening diameters for an immunoassay wash buffer e.g. for conducting bead washing operations . The opening in the top substrate was about 2 mm. The gap between the top substrate and the bottom substrate was about 200 um. The oil was about 0.1 Triton X 15 in 2cSt silicone oil and was added in excess. The reservoir substrate was about 0.250 inches in thick.

The height H of restricted region may be larger than the dead height that corresponds to the dead volume for a reservoir that has diameter D. The height H of the reservoir substrate may be larger than the dead height H for a reservoir that has diameter D. Because D is smaller than D the overall dead volume is small. Because D is large the number of droplets generated may be large. For example using H 0.125 in H 0.250 in D 1.5 mm and D 4 mm the final dead volume is from about 5 L to about 10 L while being able to dispense about 100 droplets from an initial operations fluid volume of about 40 L.

Though the final dead volume is from about 5 L to about 10 L an initial activation volume of liquid may be needed to overcome the pressure difference between D and D. For the case where D 4 mm and D 1.5 mm this activation volume was found to be from about 15 L to about 20 L. This activation volume may be reduced by decreasing D or increasing D.

Referring again to as a specific embodiment of this design H is about equal to the dead height H that is required for larger diameter region . The entire capacity of larger diameter region is then available for dispensing droplets. In another embodiment H is equal to the asymptotic value of dead height as illustrated above.

Referring to the use of a spacer may be used in order to prevent liquid from spontaneously flowing into the droplet actuator. For example a spacer pattern around the reservoir which narrows down to an approximately one electrode opening reduces the chances of liquid from spontaneously flowing into the droplet actuator in an uncontrolled manner. The top substrate and reservoir substrate may be fabricated separately or as one piece of material. Alternative embodiments of the invention may be implemented using a hybrid top substrate in which the liquid is loaded around the edge of the glass.

Increasing the gap h reduces dead height and correspondingly the dead volume. However increasing the gap may adversely affect other processes such as splitting and causes an increase in droplet volume. The width w of the reservoir is preferably larger than the unit electrode. The gap height should not be so great as to cause undue interference with droplet operations such as droplet dispensing and droplet splitting for which the droplet actuator is intended.

Lowering the surface tension of the filler fluid may improve the loading process significantly by lowering the interfacial tension of the liquid with the filler fluid. This is the most effective way of reducing dead volume because it improves the loading of all operations fluids. However extremely low values of surface tension may result in emulsification of the droplets in the filler fluid. The surface tension of the filler fluid should not be lowered to the extent that any resulting emulsification of droplets in the filler fluid is sufficient to cause undue interference with the droplet operations for which the droplet actuator is intended.

Lowering the surface tension of the droplet improves the loading process significantly by lowering the interfacial tension of the liquid with the oil. However lower surface tension may also causes the liquid to wet the solid surface more. The surface tension of the droplet should not be sufficiently reduced to cause undue interference with the droplet operations for which the droplet actuator is intended.

A higher contact angle on the reservoir substrate wall enhances loading. A lower contact angle is preferred for disposal. Higher applied voltage causes a larger contact angle change and aids loading. Contact angle hysteresis is reduced using AC voltage and loading is enhanced.

The oil meniscus level has a significant effect on the loading process. Reducing the oil level in the wells to a point at which the liquid in the reservoir has an interface with air significantly improves loading. This is because a liquid air interface has a higher interfacial tension and a correspondingly higher Laplace pressure than a liquid oil interface. A higher Laplace pressure at the reservoir reduces the pressure difference that needs to be overcome.

The foregoing detailed description of embodiments refers to the accompanying drawings which illustrate specific embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments having different structures and operations do not depart from the scope of the present invention. This specification is divided into sections for the convenience of the reader only. Headings should not be construed as limiting of the scope of the invention. The definitions are intended as a part of the description of the invention. It will be understood that various details of the present invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation as the present invention is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter.

