---

title: Context-based dynamic rendering of digital content
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media are disclosed for dynamic character enhancement for rendering digital content. Example methods may include identifying a reading speed indicative of a rate at which a user desires to read, determining a number of words in a portion of content to present to the user, and determining a base time interval for at least one word of the portion of content based at least in part on the reading speed. Methods may include determining an average difficulty value of the portion of content, determining that a first difficulty value of a first word exceeds the average difficulty value, and determining a first time adjustment for the first word based at least in part on the first difficulty value. Methods may include determining a first time interval based at least in part on the base time interval and the first time adjustment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558159&OS=09558159&RS=09558159
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09558159
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150515
---
Users may consume digital content on electronic devices. Some digital content such as text may include a number of lines paragraphs pages and the like. While consuming digital content users may desire to increase reading speeds or may desire guidance during consumption of digital content. However some words or characters may be more difficult to consume than other words or characters. Users may therefore desire to increase reading speeds while accounting for difficulty of characters or words presented in digital content.

This disclosure relates to among other things systems methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies for dynamic character enhancement for rendering content. Users may consume digital content such as text on electronic devices such as mobile devices also referred to herein as user devices . Users may desire to improve the readability of digital content on a user device and may desire to consume text at a certain reading speed. For example users may desire to read text at a desired reading speed of 60 words per minute at 2 words per second or the like. Users may further desire to increase their reading speed over time. The systems methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies for dynamic character enhancement for rendering content may improve readability of digital content and assist users in reading at a certain reading speed by drawing a user s attention to particular characters images or words in succession such that not only is readability improved but desired reading speeds can be achieved. For example if a user wants to read certain text at 120 words per minute the systems methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies for dynamic character enhancement for rendering content described herein may draw the user s attention to a first word by providing an identifying marker or feature or otherwise distinguishing the first word from other text displayed to the user. The first word may remain marked for half a second and then may be rendered or re rendered in its original form while the subsequent or second word is identified with the marker or other feature that distinguishes the second word from the other text displayed to the user. Some embodiments may not include identifying markers. Examples of identifying markers or features described herein include emboldening weighting underlining italicizing enlarging changing a font adding or removing serifs changing a color highlighting adding a pointer or other marker and the like. By continuing this process of identifying subsequent characters images or words and drawing the user s attention to the particular words in succession readability of content may be improved and or desired reading speeds may be achieved.

Embodiments of the disclosure described herein may further provide time adjustments which may be increases or decreases in time for certain characters images or words in addition to a default time allotted per word based on a desired or selected reading speed. A time adjustment as referred to herein may be a time extension or reduction in time associated with a character or word for which a respective character or word is presented in addition to a default or base time interval for the character or word. In some embodiments but not all embodiments a respective character or word may be presented with an identifying marker during the time interval for the character or word. For example if a selected reading speed is 60 words per minute embodiments of the disclosure may determine that each word of presented text is allotted a default time or base time interval of 1 second per word for consumption. However certain embodiments may provide time adjustments which may be a positive time adjustment or extension for consuming certain characters or words in addition to the default time. For example certain words exceeding a threshold number of characters such as 10 characters or words exceeding a threshold word difficulty may be provided a time adjustment of 0.2 seconds in addition to the default time of 1 second to provide the user with more time to consume the particular word. Word difficulty may be determined by one or more of a number of factors and may be specific to a user. For example word difficulty may be based at least in part on a number of possible definitions of the word a length of the word a frequency of the word in a portion of content or in a language generally a relative difficulty of the word with respect to the content in which the word is presented and or user specific factors such as whether the user has previously requested a definition of the word a reading level of the user an age or age range of the user and other user attributes or word difficulty metrics. After the default time and the time adjustment have passed the word may be rendered in its original form and the subsequent word may be marked or otherwise distinguished. Some embodiments may compensate for the time adjustment by reducing the default time allotted for an easy word or words less than a threshold length of characters such as 3 characters or below a threshold word difficulty such that an effective reading speed is equal to or approximately equal to the user s desired reading speed. Time adjustments may be determined or generated specific to users in some embodiments. For example if a user has a reading level of 8grade words or characters of a certain reading level e.g. college level may have time adjustments or time adjustments for that specific user. Further time adjustments may be dynamic in that one user may receive a time adjustment of 0.5 seconds for a certain word in certain content while another user may receive a time adjustment of 1.5 seconds for the same word in the same content. Such dynamic time adjustments generated by certain embodiments described herein may be determined based at least in part on user attributes e.g. age reading level previously read content geographic location etc. user history e.g. whether the user looked up a definition for the word previously etc. comparisons to similar users and related behaviors and other factors.

Referring now to an example environment is illustrated with a user and a user device . The user may desire to consume content on the user device . Content as used herein may include any type of content that exists in the form of digital data and which is capable of being consumed. Example types of digital content may include without limitation electronic books e books or other electronic publications e.g. magazines comic books Manga books social media news feeds documents websites other Internet content etc. or the like. Content may include text content graphical content audio content video content or the like and may include information that is broadcast streamed or contained in computer files stored on a device configured to render the content. While example embodiments of the disclosure may be described in the context of e books and or electronic reader e reader devices it should be appreciated that the disclosure is more broadly applicable to any form of digital content consumable on any suitable user device including without limitation a smartphone a tablet a wearable device a content streaming device a digital media consumption device a video game console a set top box or any other suitable device.

In the user device may present reading speed information to the user . The reading speed information may include information related to the user s previous reading speeds recommended reading speeds for the user and or for particular content one or more inputs for selecting or adjusting reading speed settings and the like. For example the reading speed information may include a default speed . The default speed may be indicative of a recommended reading speed for the particular content the user desires to consume. In some embodiments the default speed may be determined by the user device based at least in part on the type of content the user desires to consume. For example fictional content may have a relatively higher default reading speed than non fiction content. The reading speed information may include a tested speed . The tested speed may be indicative of a reading speed the user achieved during a reading speed test conducted by the user device . In some embodiments the user device may be configured to conduct or otherwise perform reading speed tests. A reading speed test may include presenting a passage or portion of text to the user and determining a length of time the user takes to complete reading the presented text. The user device may calculate the reading speed by dividing the number of words in the presented text by the length of time the user took to determine a tested reading speed. The user device may associate the tested reading speed with the genre or type of content that was presented to the user during the reading speed test so as to generate accurate tested reading speeds for different types of content e.g. fiction informative non fiction magazine etc. . The reading speed information may include a target speed . The target speed may be a reading speed goal set by the user or a reading speed at which the user desires to achieve. In some embodiments the target speed may be determined or generated by the user device . For example the target speed may be an incremental increase from the last selected reading speed by the user or the last tested reading speed for the user . The target speed may in some embodiments be an average reading speed for the particular content aggregated across all users that consumed the content or users that are similar to the user . The reading speed information may include a last used speed indicative of the last or most recent reading speed setting selected or used by the user . The reading speed information may include one or more inputs . For example in the reading speed information may include a test option for the user to take a reading speed test a save option for saving reading speed settings and or a start option for the user to begin consuming content. Other embodiments may include additional fewer or different components or inputs in the reading speed information . Some embodiments may prompt a user for a length of time the user desires to complete the content in. For example a user may wish to consume an electronic book in 2 hours. Embodiments of the disclosure may generate a reading speed recommendation based at least in part on the number of words in the content and the desired time to complete the content. While discussed in some examples and embodiments herein in the context of text and electronic books embodiments of this disclosure may include webpages web based documents social media and social media newsfeeds and the like. For example embodiments may facilitate consumption of text on a webpage and may automatically scroll a webpage up or down as content is consumed by a user. In another example a web based document such as one uploaded to a document storage server may be consumed with embodiments of the disclosure. In another example a social media newsfeed may be presented and consumed via embodiments of the disclosure which may facilitate consumption of the respective digital content by users.

The user may use the user device to consume digital content such as text. In the illustrated embodiment the user may select or input a desired reading speed and select start and be presented with the desired digital content. The desired reading speed may be input or selected in any suitable format indicative of a rate at which the user desires to wants to read. Examples include words per minute words per second seconds per word and the like. In some embodiments the desired reading speed may be input as words per minute and may be automatically converted to another metric such as unit time per word for example by dividing the desired reading speed by a number of words in the content to be consumed. In the user device may render content at a first screen depicted at a first timestamp indicated by time along a horizontal axis. At the first screen a portion of content may be rendered on a display of the user device . The portion of content may include one or more characters or words and may be rendered in any suitable language layout and or device orientation e.g. landscape or portrait orientations . The user device may assist the user in reading the rendered content by drawing the user s attention to particular characters or words in order or succession based at least in part on the user s desired reading speed. In the user device may identify or otherwise determine that a first character or a first word also referred to as starting word of the rendered portion of content is Victorious. Accordingly the user device may render the first word in some instances with one or more identifying markers that distinguishes the first word from the other rendered content such that the user s attention is drawn to the first word . In the illustrated example the user device emboldens and underlines the first word Victorious such that the user can easily identify the character and or word that is to be consumed at any point in time. In some embodiments the user device may identify the word or character to be consumed by adding a marker near the word changing a color of the word to make the word contrast with other words or with other markers or combinations thereof as described herein. While described in the content of content that includes characters and or words embodiments of the disclosure may include images tables charts formulae and other forms of content. In one example embodiments of the disclosure may provide standard time intervals for inline graphics and or embedded formulae or may prompt a user to continue. Some embodiments may analyze a size or information density of such non text content and generate time intervals for consumption based at least in part on size complexity and or information density of non textual content.

The first word may be rendered with the identifying marker at the first screen for a first time interval . During the first time interval the other rendered content or words may be rendered with normal or default characteristics such as a default font or font size color and or other characteristic associated with the content or operational mode of the user device . The other rendered content or words may have uniform characteristics such that the first word stands out or is otherwise distinguished or apparent from the other text. As a result the user may quickly identify the first word and may consume the word with the identifying marker.

The first word may remain identified as illustrated in the first screen for the first time interval . The first time interval may include a default time allotted for a word. The default time may be determined by the user device based at least in part on the reading speed selected by the user or otherwise determined by the user device . For example the user device may determine that a desired reading speed is 60 words per minute and as a result each word has a default time allotment of 1 second for consumption.

In some instances time intervals associated with one or more characters or words may include a time adjustment in addition to the default time. Time adjustments or time adjustments may increase or decrease the default time by a specific amount or length of time. Durations of time adjustments may be determined by embodiments described herein based at least in part on characteristics of a particular word or character positioning of a character or word on a display or layout of content user attributes historical user actions and other factors. For example the user device may determine a time adjustment for words having a length of over a certain number of characters or for words having at least a certain number of possible definitions. Other examples include time adjustments for words of a non native language as determined based on user attributes or geographic location words having a complexity or reading level greater than a user s reading level words a user has previously requested assistance on or looked up a definition for words at the start or end of a paragraph or page among other examples. In one particular example if a user device is located in Atlanta Ga. and or a user account is primarily associated with digital content in English and the user associated with the user account is consuming content in Japanese the user may be unfamiliar with the Japanese language and a time adjustment that increases a presentation time interval may be generated for some or all characters presented to the user so as to accommodate the user s unfamiliarity. In another example if the Japanese content the user is consuming is significantly below the user s average reading level as indicated by historical user data time adjustments may be generated for some or all of the characters presented to the user. In the user device may determine that the first time interval includes the default time and a time adjustment because the first word has a number of characters at or over a threshold of 10 characters. The user device may further determine that the first word has a difficulty greater than the user s reading ability. Accordingly the first time interval may include the default time and the time adjustment to provide the user sufficient time to consume the first word .

Time adjustments for certain words or characters may also reduce the default time for a word or be negative. For example for relatively short words e.g. word less than 3 characters etc. such as at the user device may reduce the default time so as to achieve an overall or effective reading speed approximately equal to or equal to the desired reading speed. Other examples of characters or words for which the time adjustment may reduce the default time include common words such as the or I a and others. The user device may dynamically adjust time adjustments for particular users over time. For example the first time a user is presented with a word having a relatively high complexity or difficult the time adjustment may be 100 of the default time giving the user double the default amount of time to consume the word. The fifth time the same word is presented to the user however the user device may generate a time adjustment of 20 of the default time because the user may be more comfortable or familiar with the word. Time adjustments may be language specific in that certain characters or words in certain languages may be allotted time adjustments while the same characters or words in different languages may not be allotted a time adjustment. Character based languages may also have time adjustments specific to certain characters or positioning of characters on a display compared to other languages. Additional examples are described herein.

A first visual indicator may be presented to the user representing a total amount of time that the user has to consume the portion of content based at least in part on the desired or target reading speed. The visual indicator may change as time elapses. The first visual indicator may be a graphical representation of time remaining for consumption of the portion of content . Although illustrated as a bar indicator other embodiments may include visual indicators such as background color transitions e.g. from green to yellow to red etc. a countdown timer and other visual indicators.

Upon completion of the first time interval the user device may render a second screen depicted at a second timestamp. As illustrated the second screen may include a portion of content which may be the same portion of content as the first screen . The first word may be rendered with the default or normal characteristics and may not include the identifying marker or markers associated with the first word in the first screen . In the second screen a second word may be rendered with identifying markers. The second word may be the word immediately subsequent to the first word . The identifying markers of the second word may be the same as or different than the identifying markers of the first word in the first screen . The second word may for example be emboldened and underlined as illustrated so as to draw the user s attention to the second word . The second word may remain rendered with the identifying markers for a second time interval . The user device may determine that the second word is not associated with a time adjustment or does not otherwise meet a time adjustment criteria so the second time interval may equal the default time. Accordingly the second word may be rendered with or otherwise presented with the identifying markers for the duration of the second time interval . As shown in a second visual indicator may indicate to the user the time remaining for consumption of the portion of content which accounts for the elapsed time from the time the user started consuming the presented content.

Upon completion of the second time interval which may be different in length than the first time interval the user device may render a third screen depicted at a third timestamp. As illustrated the third screen may include a portion of content which may be the same portion of content as the first screen or the second screen . The first word and the second word may be rendered with the default or normal characteristics and may not include the identifying marker or markers associated with the first word or the second word in the respective first screen and second screen . In the third screen a third word may be rendered with identifying markers. The third word may be the word immediately subsequent to the second word . The identifying markers of the third word may be the same as or different than the identifying markers of the first word in the first screen or the second word in the second screen . The third word may for example be emboldened and underlined as illustrated so as to draw the user s attention to the third word . The third word may remain rendered with the identifying markers for a third time interval . The user device may determine that the third word is not associated with a time adjustment or does not otherwise meet a time adjustment criteria so the third time interval may equal the default time. Accordingly the third word may be rendered with or otherwise presented with the identifying markers for the duration of the third time interval . A third visual indicator may represent the remaining time the user has to consume the remaining content of the presented portion of content. Some embodiments may not include identifying markers and may include words presented for their respective time intervals e.g. base time interval and any time adjustment without identifying markers.

Upon completion of the third time interval the user device may continue to render screens with identifying markers for successive characters or words to assist in readability and in drawing user attention. For each character or word the user device may determine time adjustments to determine a length of time to provide the user for consumption of the word. The user device may continue this process until reaching the last word or character displayed on the user device . Upon rendering the last word of the content with the identifying markers the user device may wait for the user to indicate a transition to a subsequent page or may automatically scroll to display additional content. For example as illustrated on each of the first second and third screens the user device may present one or more options to the user during consumption of content. In the options may include a pause option to pause the user device at a current screen a speed adjustment option to increase or decrease a desired reading speed a lookup option to seek further information such as a definition of the word with identifying markers at the time the option is selected or to trigger display of supplemental content and a next option to indicate a transition to a subsequent page or portion of content. The next option may prevent the user device from automatically moving to a subsequent portion of the content if the user happens to leave the user device temporarily and does not pause or stop the user device .

Example embodiments of the disclosure provide a number of technical features or technical effects. For example in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure characters or words of digital content may be identified and generated with identifying markers so as to make particular characters or words relatively easier to identify and or consume. In accordance with certain example embodiments of the disclosure subsequent characters or words may also identified and generated in succession such that a user is assisted in reading or consuming content at a desired reading speed. Example embodiments may further generate one or more time adjustments to a length of time allotted for consumption of one character or word. Time adjustments may be positive or negative and may be determined based at least in part on factors such as user attributes character or word characteristics comparisons to similar users target reading speeds and other factors in accordance with certain example embodiments of the disclosure. The above examples of technical features and or technical effects of example embodiments of the disclosure are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described above. The above described embodiments are merely illustrative of the scope of this disclosure and are not intended to be limiting in any way. Accordingly variations modifications and equivalents of embodiments disclosed herein are also within the scope of this disclosure. The above described embodiments and additional and or alternative embodiments of the disclosure will be described in detail hereinafter through reference to the accompanying drawings.

At block of the method in computer executable instructions of one or more module s stored on a memory of a user device may be executed to identify a reading speed indicative of a rate at which to generate identifying markers. Example device architecture including modules is illustrated in .

In an example user device is depicted. The user device may include a display and a camera . The user device may be for example the user device of . The user device may present a first user interface to a user . The first user interface may present content information which may be indicative of or associate with digital content selected for consumption by the user . For example in the content information presented to the user by the user device may indicate that the user desires to consume Great Expectations. The user device may further present reading speed information on the display . The reading speed information may include information such as an average reading speed of the user a target reading speed of the user information related to reading speeds of Great Expectations by users similar to the user and the like. The user device may present an option or input to start reading Great Expectations or to otherwise begin consuming content. The user device may present an audible input which may enable an audible playback of one or more recordings associated with the digital content. For example words or definitions of words may be recorded and associated with content for playback by users. In some embodiments an estimated time to completion based at least in part on a reading speed and a number of characters or words in the content may be presented to a user.

Some or all of the reading speed information may be determined by the user device or may be received from a remote server in response to a request from the user device . For example the user device may analyze historical data associated with the user to determine an average reading speed of the user . The average reading speed may be specific to a certain type of content e.g. textbook magazine etc. genre e.g. fiction non fiction etc. and the like so as to determine an accurate average reading speed for the user .

The target reading speed may be determined by the user device or by a remote server as being a goal set by the user or an incremental increase from an average reading speed or most recent reading speed or combination thereof to bring the reading speed closer to a goal set by the user . For example in the user may have an average reading speed of 50 words per minute for fictional books. The user may have a goal reading speed of 70 words per minute for fictional books. Accordingly the user device may determine that the last reading speed at which the user consumed a fictional book was 55 words per minute and may suggest a recommended reading speed or target reading speed of 60 words per minute. In certain embodiments the target reading speed may be the reading speed goal of the user . Recommended reading speeds may also be determined or generated by the user device by analyzing reading speeds of other users that have consumed the content. For example the user device may generate a summary of the user s average reading speed for the content and may further generate an indication of the user s average speed compared to the average reading speed of other users which may be all users or a subset of users similar to the user themselves e.g. similar age location reading level etc. . Embodiments of the disclosure may further generate recommendations or suggestions regarding device brightness settings device orientation font size background color or other device settings to facilitate increased reading speed. For example a landscape device orientation may facilitate faster reading speeds or a white background color may provide better contrast for a user.

In another example the target reading speed may be based at least in part on results of a reading speed test completed by the user . For example the user device may present text for the user to read and may monitor a length of time the user takes to complete reading of the text. The user device may determine the user s reading speed based on the number of words presented to the user the time to complete reading and or a difficulty or complexity and or type genre of the presented text. In another embodiment the user device may use the camera to observe eye movements of the user to estimate or determine a length of time it takes the user s eyes to move across a line of text. Specifically the user device may detect a user reading speed by using the camera to track eye movement of the user and may generate a recommendation for a target reading speed based at least in part on the detected reading speed.

The reading speed of similar users may be determined by the user device sending a request to a remote server for aggregate reading speed information associated with the content which in is Great Expectations. The remote server may receive the request and may either send the user device an average reading speed aggregated across all readers of the content or may generate a specific average reading speed for users similar to the user based at least in part on user attributes. For example the remote server may determine that the user is between 15 18 years old and may generate average reading speeds for users within the same age range. In some embodiments average reading speeds for similar but not identical content may be generated for instance when insufficient data is available. In another example the remote server may determine based on a user account associated with the user that the user has a reading level of 11grade and may generate average reading speeds for similar users e.g. 11grade a range between 10 12grade etc. . If the user selects a desired reading speed that is below an aggregated average reading speed the user device may automatically enable one or more functions to assist the reader or user in consuming the content. Example functions may include audible assistance such as that provided by option definition popups or presentation for some or all words or other supplemental content to facilitate reading and comprehension of the content by the user . In some embodiments the user device may perform some or all functions described in the context of the remote server locally.

The user may select or input a desired reading speed at an input of the reading speed information and may commence consuming the content by selecting option . The user device may transition to another page or screen user interface and render the selected content which in is Great Expectations. 

At block of the method includes displaying a first character with a first identifying marker on a display of a device. Referring to at a second user interface the user device may present a portion of the digital content on the display . Time is indicated along a vertical axis in with various timestamps identified. The user device may display a first character or first word of the digital content with one or more identifying markers. For example in at timestamp t 1 the user device may present the word My in a color different than the other displayed words of the content and or may embolden weight underline color and the like to identify the first word of the content to facilitate reading of the content by the user . While the first word is rendered or presented with the identifying marker s the rest of the content may be presented with default original or uniform characteristics. Other examples of identifying markers include but are not limited to marking emboldening highlighting italicizing enlarging weighting and coloring. While the illustrated user interface has more than one word with identifying characteristics the various illustrated words may appear at various timestamps and may not occur simultaneously. In some embodiments however more than one word may appear with identifying markers simultaneously or for overlapping time intervals.

At block of the method includes determining a first time interval for which to display the first character based at least in part on the reading speed. In the user device may determine that the user has a desired reading speed of 60 words per minute and may calculate therefrom a default time of 1 second per word during which a word will be rendered with one or more identifying markers. In the user device may determine that the first word is to be rendered or displayed with identifying markers for a first time interval of 1 second. Time intervals illustrated in may be any unit of time and any specific length of time. For example a time interval of 1 unit may be equivalent to 0.8 seconds 2 seconds or another length of time and may be specific to users and or user devices.

Block of the method includes determining a first time adjustment for the first character based at least in part on a difficulty of the first character. A time adjustment as described herein may be generated for the first character based at least in part on a difficulty of the character which may be relative to the content in which the character appears to the user a language generally a position of the character on a display of a device or another factor. The time adjustment may be added to the first time interval to compensate or otherwise account for difficulty of the character or word and to provide a user with additional time to consume the character or word. As described herein time adjustments may be negative and may reduce default time intervals so as to account for time adjustments that extend default time intervals thereby equaling or approximating a desired reading speed.

Block of the method includes displaying a second character with a second identifying marker on the display of the device for a second time interval after the first time interval the second time interval based at least in part on the reading speed. In at timestamp t 2 of the second user interface the user device may render a second word or father s with a second identifying marker not shown for a second time interval after the first time interval. The second word may be immediately subsequent to the first word . While the second word is rendered with the second identifying marker the first word may be rendered with default or original characteristics so the user is no longer drawn to the first word . In one example the first word may be displayed in a first color and the second word may be displayed in a second color during the first time interval and the first word may be displayed in the second color and the second word may be displayed in the first color during the second time interval.

The user device may continue to present characters or words in succession until reaching an end of for example a paragraph an end of a page and or an end of the displayed content. In some instances the user device may determine time adjustments indicative of an adjustment to a time interval during which a particular character or word is displayed. For example in the second user interface depicted in at timestamp t 6 5 time intervals after t 1 the user device may determine that the word Pirrip is a first word in a new line of text or a starting word for a line of text and as a result may increase the time interval during which Pirrip is rendered with identifying markers by a time adjustment. Similarly at timestamp t 38 the user device may determine that the word Pip is a last word of a paragraph and may increase the time interval by a time adjustment during which Pip is rendered with identifying markers. The user device may determine at timestamp t 39 that I is the first word of a paragraph and may increase the time interval by a time adjustment during which I is rendered with identifying markers. The user device may determine a positioning of a character or word which may be based at least in part on a layout of the content in order to determine whether a time adjustment should be provided for the character or word. In some embodiments although I is the first word of a paragraph the time interval associated therewith may not be increased due to the relatively short number of characters in the word. Certain embodiments may render Pip and I both with identifying markers for an overlapping length of time so as to ease the user in transitioning from the end of one paragraph to the start of another. In addition certain embodiments of the disclosure may determine whether to provide a time adjustment or may determine a length of time to provide based at least in part on a number of lines in a paragraph immediately preceding a word. For example if the number of lines in an immediately preceding paragraph meet a threshold such as 10 lines the first word of the following paragraph may be given a longer positive time adjustment relative to other instances of the word due to the length of the preceding paragraph. The user device at timestamp t 90 may render photographs for an increased time interval with a time adjustment or indefinitely until the user indicates a transition to a subsequent portion of text.

In an alternative embodiment or in addition to the embodiment illustrated in a third user interface is depicted. In the embodiment of the third user interface in addition to rendering characters or words with identifying markers in succession the user device may determine default characteristics such as a font line spacing and the like for rendering content . The user device may identify a portion of the rendered content such as the first paragraph as shown in the third user interface . The user device may render the identified portion with a first characteristic that is different that the default characteristics. For example as illustrated the rendered content may have a default line spacing of single spacing indicated by the content other than the identified portion . The user device may render the identified portion in double spacing as shown so as to make the characters or words included in the identified portion easier to read for the user . At timestamp t 1 the user device may render a first word in a boldface font for example that may be associated with a default font of the content . The user device may also render during a first time interval the first word with an underline positioned under the first word or a marker positioned on top of the first word . The user device may continue generating identifying markers for characters or words in succession until reaching the end of the identified portion . When a time interval for a particular character or word is complete the word or character may be rendered with default characteristics and without the identifying markers. At timestamp t 38 the user device may render Pip with the identifying marker and may increase the time interval for Pip by a time adjustment. Upon completion of the identified portion the user device may render the identified portion with the default characteristics e.g. single line spacing and may identify a subsequent portion of the content to render with characteristics different than the default.

In the user device may analyze a first portion of the content to generate a first digital content analysis results . Specifically the user device may analyze the first portion to determine a number of words in a specific line. By analyzing a first line for example the user device may determine that the first line has 5 words. The user device may generate default time intervals for each word based at least in part on a desired reading speed. The user device may further generate time adjustments for one or more of the words in the first line . For example the user device may determine that a first word of the first line is a first word of a paragraph and a first word of a page and may therefore determine a time adjustment of 1 associated with the first word . The user device may determine that the fifth word of the first line has a time adjustment of 0.5 because the fifth word is the last word in the first line . As part of the first digital content analysis results the user device may generate totals for the number of words in a line and totals of time adjustments that may be used to determine an overall reading speed for the user. For example the user device may compensate for the allotted time adjustment by reducing time intervals for relatively easy or easier or in one example shorter words. In some instances the user device may further determine intercharacter spacing between characters of words or interword spacing in between adjacent words to determine whether a positive time adjustment should be allotted and if so how much time should be allotted. Time adjustments may also be determined based at least in part on a language of the character or word. For example a user residing in America or having a user history associated with content in English may be provided additional time for content rendered in Chinese. Certain embodiments may further provide time adjustments for words or characters in lines following a line having a number of words that meets a line length threshold. For example if a line length threshold is 10 words and a line is determined to have 12 words the first word in the subsequent line may be provided with a time adjustment or an additional positive time adjustment to assist readers or users in identifying the subsequent word. Time adjustments may further be based at least in part on word difficulty. In one embodiment time adjustments may be based on a word meeting a difficulty threshold. The difficulty threshold may be in some embodiments based at least in part on a number of characters in the word a contextual difficulty of the word a lexile or comprehension score or the like.

As shown in the digital content analysis may generate second digital content analysis results . The user device may analyze the first portion of the content to determine a total number of words in each line a total number of words in the first portion and or a line spacing in between one or more of the lines in the first portion . Time adjustments may be generated for words positioned at lines having a line spacing below a predetermined amount. For example the user device may determine that the line spacing between the first line second line and third line is consistent at line spacing and that no time adjustment is to be generated due to line spacing. The user device may further determine whether based on the number of words per line time adjustments should be generated. For example because lines and have at least one word with a length of 7 or more characters the user device may generate a time adjustment for one or more words in the respective lines. The user device may further determine whether a time adjustment should be generated because of a number of words in paragraph meeting a threshold.

At block computer executable instructions of one or more module s stored on a memory of a user device may be executed to determine a number of words in the portion of text. For example the portion of text may be the content presented on a display of a device. The number of words in the portion of text may be determined based at least in part on the starting character and ending character of the text. The number of words may be the total number of characters or words included in the portion of text including the starting word or character and the ending word or character.

At block computer executable instructions of one or more module s stored on a memory of a user device may be executed to determine an average word or character difficulty of the number of words of the portion of text. For example each word or character included in the portion of text may be associated with a word difficulty. As described herein the word difficulty may be general to a language or specific to content or to a user. The average word or character difficulty may be determined by combining a difficulty score for each word in the portion of text and dividing by the number of words or characters included in the portion of text. In some embodiments an average word difficulty may be determined for an entire piece of content such as an electronic book or the average word difficulty may be identified via information associated with particular content. In some instances digital content may include reference information that identifies word difficulty. In one example classification content may accompany the digital content. For instance when a publisher makes an e book available for acquisition the publisher may include classification content with the e book. Classification content may include measures of a difficulty level of the different words within the text of the e book the relative importance of the different words within the text in the context of the book and or other information. In other instances classification content may be obtained from a third party source. For instance a reference source may maintain for example difficulty levels of respective words and a device or the other entity may identify the words within the digital content and identify from the reference source the corresponding difficulty level of the words. In still other instances a device or another entity e.g. the entity that offers the digital content may actually calculate for example the relative importance of the different words within the context of the digital content. Example embodiments may include a general word ranking module that may operate to provide a general or non contextual ranking or score for each of a plurality of words in digital content. In some implementations the ranking or score of a word provided by the general word ranking module may be indicative of a relative difficulty and or importance of the word among the plurality of words. For example in some implementations the general word ranking module may assign such a ranking or score to the each word of a language. A difficulty ranking or difficulty value of a particular word may be based at least in part on a frequency of the term within the digital content. For example in a book about the production of energy in plants the word photosynthesis may be determined to be more likely to be known or not as difficult as the word might be evaluated to be in another context. In other words a second language reader of a biology book is more likely to know the second language word for the biology word photosynthesis even though photosynthesis may be above a reader s general reading level or may otherwise appear to be difficult. The balancing of the importance and difficulty factors may vary from implementation to implementation. A difficulty value for a character or a word may also be determined in some implementations based at least in part on the relative frequency the word appears within a corpus of written materials which may be related to a particular subject area. As mentioned above a reader reading a second language biology e book is more likely to know the second language word for photosynthesis than a reader of a mystery novel that includes the word photosynthesis in a technobabble explanation. As such the word photosynthesis may have a lower difficulty value for digital content related to biology due to its higher frequency of occurrence in a corpus of biology digital content relative to a corpus of content from all subject areas.

At block computer executable instructions of one or more module s stored on a memory of a user device may be executed to identify a desired reading speed for the portion of text. For example the desired reading speed may be based at least in part on an input by the user a recommended reading speed a target or goal reading speed or another reading speed.

At block computer executable instructions of one or more module s stored on a memory of a user device may be executed to generate based at least in part on the number of words the average word difficulty and the desired reading speed a default time interval for presentation of one of the one or more characters on the device and a median time adjustment for characters of the one or more characters of the portion of text that meet a difficulty threshold. The portion may be an entire electronic book a chapter a page a paragraph or another portion of the content another portion of a webpage e.g. that must be scrolled in order to consume etc. a social media newsfeed for a subsequent friend or another portion. In one example embodiments of the disclosure may determine a default time interval for a word or character in a chapter or other portion of content. The difficulty threshold may be relative to an average word difficulty which may be represented as an average word difficulty value or numerical representation and or based at least in part on another difficulty metric. For example if the average difficulty value for a character of the portion of text is identified as a score of 5 10 the difficulty threshold may be 7 10 and every character or word having a difficulty of at least 7 10 may be provided with the median time adjustment. In some embodiments the median time adjustment may be adjusted based at least in part on the difficulty of a specific character or word. In one example a desired reading speed may be 60 words per minute such that the default time interval for each word is 1 second. The median time adjustment may be determined to be 0.5 seconds which may account for the average difficulty as indicated by the average word difficulty value of characters or words forming the portion of content. The difficulty threshold may be characters or words having a difficulty score of 7 10. However for characters or words having a difficulty score of 10 10 the time adjustment may be 0.9 seconds and for characters or words having a difficulty score of 6 10 the time adjustment may be 0.1 seconds so as to achieve a median time adjustment of 0.5 seconds. Embodiments of the disclosure may use the median time adjustment to estimate or otherwise determine a reduction in time intervals associated with words below a certain difficulty threshold so as to make up for time adjustments provided and to maintain the desired reading speed. For example words or characters such as a or the may be presented with identifying markers for 0.5 seconds which is less than the default time interval of 1 second to make up for the time adjustments provided for words that meet or exceed the difficulty threshold.

In some embodiments embodiments may determine an amount or length of time a portion of content such as a page may take to consume. Embodiments of the disclosure may determine an amount or length of time each word in the portion of content may take to consume based at least in part on the desired or target reading speed. For example for each word the length of time for consumption may be determined by determining a base time interval for the word and adding or subtracting the word specific time adjustment where the word specific time adjustment is based at least in part on the a difficulty of the word with respect to an average difficulty of the words in the portion of content. The average difficulty of words in the content and average difficulty value may be based at least in part on a number of words in the content a font size a margin size an amount of non textual content in the portion of content such as images or tables etc. Embodiments may divide the page render time by a numerical value e.g. 4 10 etc. .

One or more operations of the method or use cases of may have been described above as being performed by a user device or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on a device. It should be appreciated however that any of the operations of method or use cases of may be performed at least in part in a distributed manner by one or more other devices or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on such devices. In addition it should be appreciated that processing performed in response to execution of computer executable instructions provided as part of an application program module or the like may be interchangeably described herein as being performed by the application or the program module itself or by a device on which the application program module or the like is executing. While the operations of the method or use cases of may be described in the context of the illustrative device it should be appreciated that such operations may be implemented in connection with numerous other device configurations.

The operations described and depicted in the illustrative method and use cases of may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various example embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain example embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain example embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in may be performed.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further while various illustrative implementations and architectures have been described in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other modifications to the illustrative implementations and architectures described herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively may be implemented by execution of computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments. Further additional components and or operations beyond those depicted in blocks of the block and or flow diagrams may be present in certain embodiments.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The device may be configured to communicate via one or more networks not shown with one or more servers user devices or the like. Such network s may include but are not limited to any one or more different types of communications networks such as for example cable networks public networks e.g. the Internet private networks e.g. frame relay networks wireless networks cellular networks telephone networks e.g. a public switched telephone network or any other suitable private or public packet switched or circuit switched networks. Further such network s may have any suitable communication range associated therewith and may include for example global networks e.g. the Internet metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or personal area networks PANs . In addition such network s may include communication links and associated networking devices e.g. link layer switches routers etc. for transmitting network traffic over any suitable type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted pair wire e.g. twisted pair copper wire optical fiber a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC medium a microwave medium a radio frequency communication medium a satellite communication medium or any combination thereof.

In an illustrative configuration the device may include one or more processors processor s one or more memory devices generically referred to herein as memory one or more input output I O interface s one or more network interfaces one or more sensors or sensor interfaces one or more transceivers and data storage . The device may further include one or more buses that functionally couple various components of the device . The device may further include one or more cameras configured to generate images or video and one or more antennas that may include without limitation a cellular antenna for transmitting or receiving signals to from a cellular network infrastructure an antenna for transmitting or receiving Wi Fi signals to from an access point AP a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS antenna for receiving GNSS signals from a GNSS satellite a Bluetooth antenna for transmitting or receiving Bluetooth signals a Near Field Communication NFC antenna for transmitting or receiving NFC signals and so forth. These various components will be described in more detail hereinafter.

The bus es may include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and may permit exchange of information e.g. data including computer executable code signaling etc. between various components of the device . The bus es may include without limitation a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and so forth. The bus es may be associated with any suitable bus architecture including without limitation an Industry Standard Architecture ISA a Micro Channel Architecture MCA an Enhanced ISA EISA a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA architecture an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP architecture a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI architecture a PCI Express architecture a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA architecture a Universal Serial Bus USB architecture and so forth.

The memory of the device may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as various types of static random access memory SRAM various types of dynamic random access memory DRAM various types of unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth. The memory may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L1 L2 etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the processor s to cause the processor s to perform or initiate various operations. The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the processor s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non volatile storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more operating systems O S one or more database management systems DBMS and one or more program modules applications or the like such as for example one or more buffer read write modules one or more predictive pre rendering modules and one or more buffer update modules . Any of the program modules may include one or more sub modules. Any of the modules depicted in may include computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loaded into the memory for execution by one or more of the processor s . Further any data stored in the data storage may be loaded into the memory for use by the processor s in executing computer executable code. In addition any data potentially stored in one or more datastores may be accessed via the DBMS and loaded in the memory for use by the processor s in executing computer executable code. In the illustrated example the datastores may include user attributes representative of a user of the user device . User attributes may include one or more indicators of a user account a user reading level a user age or age range and other user attributes. The datastores may include historical data which may include user reading history user reading speed history user reading speed analysis user reading speed selections goals targets or settings and the like. The datastores may include time adjustment rule s which may be used by the reading speed module s to determine whether to generate time adjustments for a word or character and or to determine a length of a time adjustment for a particular word or character.

The processor s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. For example the processor s may be configured to execute computer executable instructions of the various program modules of the user device to cause or facilitate various operations to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the processor s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the processor s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction sets.

Referring now to functionality supported by the various program modules depicted in the digital content analysis module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may perform functions including but not limited to determine characteristics of content rendered or to be rendered such as language layout orientation character or word analysis character or word positioning line spacing and the like. Computer executable instructions of the digital content analysis module s may be executed to determine character or word difficulty or complexity user historical data 

The identifying marker generation module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may perform functions including but not limited to generate identifying markers for one or more words characters or images. The identifying marker generation module s may further include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s determine colors fonts and other identifying markers for which to generate words or characters with.

The reading speed module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may perform functions including but not limited to identifying a reading speed associated with a user identifying aggregate reading speeds of other users or similar users and the like. Computer executable instructions of the reading speed module s may be executed to determine time intervals associated with particular words characters or images including default times and time adjustments.

The rendering module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may perform functions including but not limited to render content render portions of content with or without identifying markers. Computer executable instructions of the rendering module s may render or re render content so as to achieve a particular frame rate.

Referring now to other illustrative components depicted as being stored in the data storage the O S may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and may provide an interface between other application software executing on the device and hardware resources of the device . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the device and for providing common services to other application programs e.g. managing memory allocation among various application programs . In certain example embodiments the O S may control execution of the other program modules to dynamically enhance characters for content rendering. The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any server operating system any mainframe operating system or any other proprietary or non proprietary operating system.

The DBMS may be loaded into the memory and may support functionality for accessing retrieving storing and or manipulating data stored in the memory and or data stored in the data storage . The DBMS may use any of a variety of database models e.g. relational model object model etc. and may support any of a variety of query languages. The DBMS may access data represented in one or more data schemas and stored in any suitable data repository including but not limited to databases e.g. relational object oriented etc. file systems flat files distributed datastores in which data is stored on more than one node of a computer network peer to peer network datastores or the like. In those example embodiments in which the device is a mobile device the DBMS may be any suitable light weight DBMS optimized for performance on a mobile device.

Referring now to other illustrative components of the device one or more input output I O interfaces may be provided that may facilitate the receipt of input information by the device from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from the device to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the device including but not limited to a display a keypad a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a gesture capture or detection device a remote control device a microphone a speaker and so forth. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth.

The device may further include one or more network interfaces via which the device may communicate with any of a variety of other systems platforms networks devices and so forth. Such communication may occur via any of the types of networks previously described.

The antenna s may include any suitable type of antenna depending for example on the communications protocols used to transmit or receive signals via the antenna s . Non limiting examples of suitable antennas may include directional antennas non directional antennas dipole antennas folded dipole antennas patch antennas multiple input multiple output MIMO antennas or the like. The antenna s may be communicatively coupled to one or more transceivers or radio components to which or from which signals may be transmitted or received.

As previously described the antenna s may include a cellular antenna configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3G standards e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA CDMA2000 etc. 4G standards e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE WiMax etc. direct satellite communications or the like.

The antenna s may additionally or alternatively include a Wi Fi antenna configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards including via 2.4 GHz channels e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 5 GHz channels e.g. 802.11n 802.11ac or 60 GHZ channels e.g. 802.11ad . In alternative example embodiments the antenna s may be configured to transmit or receive radio frequency signals within any suitable frequency range forming part of the unlicensed portion of the radio spectrum.

The antenna s may additionally or alternatively include a GNSS antenna configured to receive GNSS signals from three or more GNSS satellites carrying time position information to triangulate a position therefrom. Such a GNSS antenna may be configured to receive GNSS signals from any current or planned GNSS such as for example the Global Positioning System GPS the GLONASS System the Compass Navigation System the Galileo System or the Indian Regional Navigational System.

The transceiver s may include any suitable radio component s for in cooperation with the antenna s transmitting or receiving radio frequency RF signals in the bandwidth and or channels corresponding to the communications protocols utilized by the device to communicate with other devices. The transceiver s may include hardware software and or firmware for modulating transmitting or receiving potentially in cooperation with any of antenna s communications signals according to any of the communications protocols discussed above including but not limited to one or more Wi Fi and or Wi Fi direct protocols as standardized by the IEEE 802.11 standards one or more non Wi Fi protocols or one or more cellular communications protocols or standards. The transceiver s may further include hardware firmware or software for receiving GNSS signals. The transceiver s may include any known receiver and baseband suitable for communicating via the communications protocols utilized by the device . The transceiver s may further include a low noise amplifier LNA additional signal amplifiers an analog to digital A D converter one or more buffers a digital baseband or the like.

The sensor s sensor interface s may include or may be capable of interfacing with any suitable type of sensing device such as for example inertial sensors force sensors motion sensors thermal sensors cameras and so forth. Example types of inertial sensors may include accelerometers e.g. MEMS based accelerometers gyroscopes and so forth. In one example the user devices described herein may include a motion sensor configured to detect an event corresponding to device motion via the motion sensor . Such events may be continuous motion for a certain length of time which may indicate that the user device is not stationary e.g. the user using the user device is in a car etc. . The user device may based at least in part on feedback from the motion sensor determine a first time adjustment for a first character based at least in part on the detected event. In one embodiment if motion is detected the user device may generate a time adjustment for the characters images or words with identifying markers during the motion. The sensor s may further be configured to determine an orientation of the device and in some embodiments adjust the reading speed based at least in part on the orientation of the device. For example reading speeds in landscape orientation may be increased relative to portrait orientation.

It should be appreciated that the program modules applications computer executable instructions code or the like depicted in as being stored in the data storage are merely illustrative and not exhaustive and that processing described as being supported by any particular module may alternatively be distributed across multiple modules or performed by a different module. In addition various program module s script s plug in s Application Programming Interface s API s or any other suitable computer executable code hosted locally on the device and or hosted on other computing device s accessible via one or more networks may be provided to support functionality provided by the program modules applications or computer executable code depicted in and or additional or alternate functionality. Further functionality may be modularized differently such that processing described as being supported collectively by the collection of program modules depicted in may be performed by a fewer or greater number of modules or functionality described as being supported by any particular module may be supported at least in part by another module. In addition program modules that support the functionality described herein may form part of one or more applications executable across any number of systems or devices in accordance with any suitable computing model such as for example a client server model a peer to peer model and so forth. In addition any of the functionality described as being supported by any of the program modules depicted in may be implemented at least partially in hardware and or firmware across any number of devices.

It should further be appreciated that the device may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of the device are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. While various illustrative program modules have been depicted and described as software modules stored in data storage it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software hardware and or firmware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules or as sub modules of other modules.

Program modules applications or the like disclosed herein may include one or more software components including for example software objects methods data structures or the like. Each such software component may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution cause at least a portion of the functionality described herein e.g. one or more operations of the illustrative methods described herein to be performed.

A software component may be coded in any of a variety of programming languages. An illustrative programming language may be a lower level programming language such as an assembly language associated with a particular hardware architecture and or operating system platform. A software component comprising assembly language instructions may require conversion into executable machine code by an assembler prior to execution by the hardware architecture and or platform.

Another example programming language may be a higher level programming language that may be portable across multiple architectures. A software component comprising higher level programming language instructions may require conversion to an intermediate representation by an interpreter or a compiler prior to execution.

Other examples of programming languages include but are not limited to a macro language a shell or command language a job control language a script language a database query or search language or a report writing language. In one or more example embodiments a software component comprising instructions in one of the foregoing examples of programming languages may be executed directly by an operating system or other software component without having to be first transformed into another form.

A software component may be stored as a file or other data storage construct. Software components of a similar type or functionally related may be stored together such as for example in a particular directory folder or library. Software components may be static e.g. pre established or fixed or dynamic e.g. created or modified at the time of execution .

Software components may invoke or be invoked by other software components through any of a wide variety of mechanisms. Invoked or invoking software components may comprise other custom developed application software operating system functionality e.g. device drivers data storage e.g. file management routines other common routines and services etc. or third party software components e.g. middleware encryption or other security software database management software file transfer or other network communication software mathematical or statistical software image processing software and format translation software .

Software components associated with a particular solution or system may reside and be executed on a single platform or may be distributed across multiple platforms. The multiple platforms may be associated with more than one hardware vendor underlying chip technology or operating system. Furthermore software components associated with a particular solution or system may be initially written in one or more programming languages but may invoke software components written in another programming language.

Computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that execution of the instructions on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus causes one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams to be performed. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium CRSM that upon execution may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in any of the devices described herein may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the information and which can be accessed. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM. Alternatively computer readable communication media CRCM may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include CRCM.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

