---

title: Quantum-size-controlled photoelectrochemical etching of semiconductor nanostructures
abstract: Quantum-size-controlled photoelectrochemical (QSC-PEC) etching provides a new route to the precision fabrication of epitaxial semiconductor nanostructures in the sub-10-nm size regime. For example, quantum dots (QDs) can be QSC-PEC-etched from epitaxial InGaN thin films using narrowband laser photoexcitation, and the QD sizes (and hence bandgaps and photoluminescence wavelengths) are determined by the photoexcitation wavelength.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276382&OS=09276382&RS=09276382
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09276382
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150217
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 955 909 filed Mar. 20 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U. S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the fabrication of semiconductor nanostructures and in particular to a method for quantum size controlled photoelectrochemical etching of semiconductor nanostructures.

The past two decades have seen an explosion of interest in semiconductor nanophotonics and nanoelectronics a large fraction enabled by controlled fabrication of epitaxial semiconductor nanostructures. See S. Kako et al. 5 887 2006 K. J. Vahala 424 839 2003 and C. Weisbuch and B. Vinter Elsevier 1991 . At the current frontier are nanostructures in the sub 10 nm size regime however precise control in that size regime is extremely difficult. Coincidentally the sub 10 nm size regime is comparable to the exciton Bohr radius in most semiconductors and thus is also the regime in which semiconductor nanostructures exhibit quantum size effects. See L. E. Brus 80 4403 1984 . If some aspect of a nanofabrication process were sensitive to such quantum size effects that process might be used to control nanostructure distribution in size much more precisely than current processes can. In fact in pioneering work in the 1990 s Yoneyama and others showed that quantum size effects could be used to size selectively photo etch non epitaxial colloidal quantum dots QDs in solution. See H. Matsumoto et al. 100 13781 1996 T. Torimoto et al. 105 6838 2001 D. V. Talapin et al. 14 Cat. No. 02CH37307 593 2002 and A. van Dijken et al. 10 3513 1998 .

The wide bandgap III nitrides are of broad interest in electronics and optoelectronics many of whose device functionalities would benefit enormously from nanostructures in the quantum size regime. See S. Nakamura 281 956 1998 J. M. Phillips et al. 1 307 2007 Y. Taniyasu et al. 441 325 2006 Y. Arakawa 8 823 2002 and M. Zhang et al. 98 221104 2011 . For example single QDs resonantly coupled to high Q microcavities would enable high performance single photon sources for quantum communications while monodisperse ensemble QD gain media would enable lower threshold and higher efficiency visible and UV lasers of interest for displays optical storage and ultra efficient and smart solid state lighting. See S. Kako et al. 5 887 2006 and J. J. Wierer et al. 7 963 2013 .

III nitride materials have a combination of properties unique amongst the known semiconductors. See F. A. Ponce and D. P. Bour 386 6623 351 1997 Y. Arakawa 8 4 p. 823 2002 T. Saito and Y. Arakawa 15 3 169 2002 S. N. Mohammad et al. 83 10 1306 1995 M. A. Khan et al. 41 10 1555 1997 and S. J. Pearton and F. Ren 12 21 1571 2000 . Benefiting from advanced epitaxial growth technologies these materials have been widely applied to high power and high speed electronics solid state lighting piezoelectric sensors and actuators. However unlike silicon semiconductors Ill nitrides have very high resistivity against wet chemical reactions. Wet chemical etching has only been accomplished at high temperatures with low etching rate and without selectivity between the composited layer structures. Due to this dry reactive ion etching has been largely applied to III nitrides instead of wet chemical etching. See D. Zhuang and J. H. Edgar 48 1 1 2005 Y. Jung et al. 159 2 H117 2012 I. Adesida et al. 4 1999 I. M. Huygens et al. 147 5 1797 2000 F. Karouta et al. 2 5 240 1999 C. B. Vartuli et al. 143 11 3681 1996 C. B. Vartuli et al. 143 10 L246 1996 and C. B. Vartuli et al. 14 3 1011 1996 . Photoelectrochemical etching has recently shown promising as an alternative wet process for gallium nitrides and its alloys. See H. Bae et al. 52 8 2013 Y. Gao et al. 84 17 3322 2004 C. G. Youtsey et al. 27 4 282 1998 R. Oulton 9 3 169 2014 and I. M. Huygens et al. 4 11 2301 2002 .

However a need remains for a method to use quantum size effects to control the fabrication of semiconductor nanostructures and in particular the wet chemical etching of III nitride nanostructures.

The present invention is directed to quantum size controlled photoelectrochemical QSC PEC etching of semiconductor nanostructures. The method comprises providing a semiconductor in a photoelectrochemical cell illuminating a surface of the semiconductor with narrowband light having energy exceeding the bandgap energy of the epitaxial semiconductor and photoelectrochemically etching the surface of the semiconductor until a nanostructure forms in the surface that has a quantum size dependent bandgap energy greater than the energy of the narrowband light. The semiconductor can comprise an III V semiconductor including binary ternary and quaternary alloys of group III elements Ga Al and In and group V elements P As and Sb . The III V semiconductor can comprise an III nitride semiconductor such as InGaN. The narrowband light can have a spectral line width of less than 5 nm and more preferably less than 1 nm. The semiconductor can comprise an epitaxial semiconductor film deposited on a substrate having a wider bandgap energy than the bandgap energy of the epitaxial semiconductor film whereby the photochemical etching occurs on the exposed top surface of the epitaxial semiconductor film. The surface of the semiconductor can be patterned to provide one or more etched mesas or nanowires prior to the step of photoelectrochemically etching the surface of the semiconductor. The surface of the semiconductor can comprise an array of top down fabricated or bottom up grown nanowires. The surface of the semiconductor can comprise epitaxially grown or colloidal quantum dots that can be further refined by PEC etching. Alternatively the semiconductor can comprise a quantum well layer sandwiched between two layers of material having wider bandgap energies than the epitaxial semiconductor film whereby the photoelectrochemical etching occurs laterally inwards from the sides of the quantum well layer.

QSC PEC etching enables a novel new class of nanofabrication processes in which quantum size effects can be used in a self consistent and self limited manner to fabricate semiconductor nanostructures on surfaces and in thin films. As an example of the invention QSC PEC etching was used to prepare InGaN QDs of controlled size starting from epitaxial InGaN thin films. Photoelectrochemical etching methods can be controlled to significantly enhance the etch rate of III nitride materials that is dependent on the laser wavelength laser power intensity and electrochemical potential. As the etching proceeds to long times the InGaN material texture becomes nanostructured with nanoparticles approaching the quantum size limit. Because the decrease of the particle size results in the decrease of light absorption due to the decreased volume of the film for light absorption and to the increase of the bandgaps of the resulting nanoparticles due to quantum confinement effects the etch rate drops to essentially zero due to the self limiting etch mechanism.

According to the present invention quantum size effects are used to control the fabrication of semiconductor nanostructures with significant implications for the realization of a broad range of future nanoelectronic and nanophotonic devices. The quantum size controlled photoelectrochemical QSC PEC etching scheme is illustrated in . The initial step in QSC PEC etching is semiconductor surface oxidization by photoexcited holes. See A. J. Bard 207 139 1980 and P. A. Kohl 42 629 1998 . Photoexcitation depends on light absorption light absorption depends on bandgap and in the quantum size regime bandgap depends on nanostructure size. In particular as the size of a nanostructure gets smaller the bandgap goes up. Thus properly selected narrowband light will be absorbed by large but not small nanostructures and therefore PEC etching can be self terminated at a size determined by the wavelength of that narrowband light. Although quantum mechanical effects have been observed in earlier work on silicon etching that resulted in quantum wires the effects were not self limiting in nature as in the present invention. See V. Lehmann and U. Gosele 58 8 856 1991 and K. W. Kolasinski 114 50 22098 2010 .

The sensitivity of nanostructure size to that wavelength and therefore the precision that can be achieved is illustrated in . This graph shows the photoexcitation wavelength corresponding to the calculated 0 K absorption edge of an InGaN quantum dot QD as a function of its diameter. See G. Pellegrini et al. 97 073706 2005 . In the wavelength range 420 430 nm a change in photoexcitation wavelength of 1 nm corresponds to a change in QD diameter of approximately 0.1 nm. In other words though the nanofabrication process uses light its resolution is not determined by the spatial imaging resolution hence by the shortness of the optical wavelength of the optical source as is usually the case in lithography. Instead it is determined to first order by the spectral line width of the optical source which can be quite narrow convolved with the homogeneous absorption line widths of the QDs themselves assuming the PEC etch rate of each QD depends only on its own absorption and thus terminates when it itself stops absorbing independent of the etch progress of the other QDs . Note though that homogeneous absorption line widths of QDs particularly in InGaN materials are complicated by many factors including point line surface defects size shape strain dependent polarization fields and Urbach tails.

The QSC PEC method is quite versatile and can be used to create nanostructures from a variety of semiconductor surfaces including from planar epitaxial semiconductor thin films. Alternatively the method can be used to further refine the structure of pre existing nanostructures such as nanowires fabricated by patterned top down etching or by bottom up growth techniques or to improve the size distribution of epitaxially grown or colloidal quantum dots. See U.S. Pat. No. 8 895 337 to Wang et al H. M. Kim et al. 4 1059 2004 H. W. Lin et al. 97 073101 2010 H. P. T. Nguyen et al. 11 1919 2011 B. Damilano et al. 75 3751 1999 J Tatebayashi et al. 42 073002 2009 H. Matsumoto et al. 100 13781 1996 T. Torimoto et al. 105 6838 2001 and A. van Dijken et al. 10 3513 1998 . Therefore a pre existing nanostructure can be patterned at a predetermined location on the surface prior to refinement by QSC PEC etching. For example by selecting the proper geometry e.g. a 150 nm post QSC PEC etching can leave a single QD accurately positioned e.g. to an accuracy of 25 nm or less at the center of the post. QSC PEC fabrication of nanostructures is also widely applicable to Ga Al In P As Sb semiconductor alloys including the AlGaAs and AlInGaP systems. More preferably the method can be applied to the III nitride system including the InGaN system. The wavelength of the narrowband light used to create or refine the nanostructures will depend on the the III V system used and the size of the PEC etched nanostructure desired and can range from about 200 nm to about 7 m. For example RGB LEDs can use 610 540 and 460 nm light to create red green and blue quantum dot phosphors from InGaN semiconductors.

As an example of the invention QSC PEC etching was used to prepare InGaN QDs of controlled size starting from epitaxial InGaN thin films. The initial set of samples consisted of thin 3 20 nm epitaxial InGaN films grown on c plane GaN sapphire under conditions similar to those used for state of the art InGaN light emitting diodes. See D. D. Koleske et al. 81 1940 2002 . The samples had metallic In electrodes applied to the underlying GaN and were then suspended in a PEC cell for etching. For the PEC etching itself earlier work was followed except in two respects. First for the working electrolyte an HSOaqueous solution was used rather than the more common KOH aqueous solution which eliminated etching in the absence of light. See M. S. Minsky et al. 68 1531 1996 and C. Youtsey et al. Photoelectrochemical etching of GaN in Materials Research Society Vol. 468 pp 349 354 1997 . Second a tunable relatively narrow band 1 nm line width laser source was used for photoexcitation following recent reports that such a source enables PEC etch sensitivity to fine absorption features. See E. Trichas et al. 94 173505 2009 .

To elucidate the electrochemistry during PEC etching the current and charge collection dynamics were measured over a PEC etching life cycle at a photoexcitation wavelength of 420 nm. The current density vs. time j t curve shown in follows a characteristic pattern first a 100 s incubation time second a steady increase culminating in a sharp peak and third a decay initially quick but with a long tail. As will be described more fully below the mechanisms at play during this life cycle inferred from atomic force microscopy AFM snapshots in time appear to include the following. First the initial rate is low due to the known resistance of the Ga terminated 0001 top surface against etching. See Y. Jung et al. 157 H676 2010 . Intermediate products which could catalyze dark reactions are not formed as the dark etch rate in the absence of photoexcitation the off portions of the etch rate curve in is negligible throughout the life cycle. Second the rate increases steadily as etching proceeds nonuniformly and more surface area is exposed some which is non 0001 oriented and etches at a faster rate . Third the etch rate ultimately peaks then decays due to a reduction in the volume of absorbing InGaN a decrease in the remaining InGaN surface area and a decrease in light absorption due to the increase in bandgap of the InGaN nanostructures.

For the conditions of the cumulative charge collected asymptotes to that corresponding to etching of 91 of the InGaN thin film assuming the number of electrons transferred per unit InGaN is 3 consistent with the half reaction 3h GaN Ga Nin which the oxidation state of N is increased from 3 to 0 at the anode indicating that some unetched InGaN remains. To assess this unetched InGaN AFM measurements were performed at the end of two PEC etching life cycles one for a photoexcitation wavelength of 445 nm and one for a higher energy photoexcitation wavelength of 420 nm the conditions of . That remaining InGaN as seen in the AFM images in and is typically composed of two superposed distributions of nanodots.

The first distribution is sparse 15 30 m and composed of larger 4 10 nm high dots. These large nanodots are InGaN as confirmed by scanning transmission electron microscope STEM energy dispersive x ray spectroscopy EDS mapping and persist even for laser excitation at wavelengths so short 405 nm that the thick GaN underlayer itself begins to PEC etch. These large nanodots likely coincide with surface intersecting dislocations or other defects which either repel carriers or at which carrier recombination is extremely fast and PEC etching relatively slower. See C. Youtsey et al. 73 797 1998 .

The second distribution is dense 1100 m and composed of smaller QDs located randomly at both terraces and step edges. These small QDs are also InGaN and are quite sensitive to PEC etching conditions. As illustrated in at a laser excitation wavelength of 445 nm the best fit Gaussian QD height distribution is centered at 3.3 nm with a FWHM of 2.4 nm while at a laser excitation wavelength of 420 nm the best fit Gaussian QD height distribution is centered at 1.0 nm with a FWHM of 1.1 nm. Note that the shift in the height distributions larger QDs for laser excitation at 445 nm and smaller QDs for laser excitation at 420 nm is qualitatively consistent with the quantum size controlled bandedge shift shown in and for InGaN with bulk bandedge at 450 nm. However it differs quantitatively likely because these QDs are not spherical but are flattened laterally as seen below in .

To assess at a higher level of detail the second distribution of small QDs cross sections of these QDs were imaged using high angle annular dark field aberration corrected cross sectional scanning transmission electron microscopy STEM HAADF . An ensemble of eight similarly sized QDs is shown in . An energy dispersive x ray spectroscopy STEM EDS map of a smaller ensemble of four QDs is shown in verifying that the QDs are indeed InGaN. Atomically resolved STEM HAADF images of QDs PEC etched at photoexcitation wavelengths of 445 nm and 420 nm are shown in and respectively. These atomically resolved images show that the InGaN QDs are epitaxial to the underlying GaN. They appear to be unfaceted unlike InGaN QDs formed by growth but it is possible that crystallographic dependencies would be observed under closer examination or for other PEC etch conditions. See Y. Gao et al. 84 3322 2004 . Most importantly they decrease in size with decreasing photoexcitation wavelength consistent with the quantum size controlled nature of the PEC etch.

Photoluminescence PL intensities measured from these QDs were relatively weak however perhaps due to the unpassivated surfaces and the lack of a low In content InGaN underlayer whose presence is well known to improve radiative efficiency. See T. Akasaka et al. 85 3089 2004 . To improve the PL intensities another set of samples was prepared similar to the samples described above except with a low In content InGaN epitaxial underlayer beneath and a thin 10 nm epitaxial GaN cap on top of the now buried InGaN layer. The thin GaN cap was somewhat permeable to the PEC etch etching in localized spots and exposing the underlying InGaN. The InGaN was then laterally etched underneath the GaN to create buried InGaN QDs with bottom and top surfaces passivated by InGaN and GaN respectively. Except for an additional incubation period PEC etching to form buried QDs appears to be similar to PEC etching to form the surface QDs of and . STEM and STEM EDS images of one such buried QD are shown in and showing that it is indeed epitaxial with the underlying InGaN and overlying GaN. Though not fully passivated these samples do exhibit much 100 higher PL intensities and than the samples shown in .

The nanofabrication process depends on surface electrochemistry light absorption carrier recombination and transport subsequent passivation of exposed surfaces and on the semiconductor material itself. As an example the characteristics of photoelectrochemical etching of epitaxial InGaN semiconductor thin films using narrowband lasers with linewidth less than 1 nm was examined in detail. A narrowband 1 nm linewidth tunable laser was used rather than broadband sources most often used in literature to provide accurate and controlled energies for photoexcitation and simple thin film geometries were used for ease of interpretation. Laser induced PEC etching of thin InGaN films was characterized as a function of laser wavelength and intensity as a function of film thickness and geometry and dynamically across the overall InGaN thin film PEC etching life cycle. As will be described more fully below in the initial stages of PEC etching when the thin film is flat characteristic voltammogram shapes are observed. At low photoexcitation rates voltammograms are S shaped indicating the onset of a voltage independent rate limiting process associated with electron hole pair creation and or annihilation. At high photoexcitation rates voltammograms are superlinear in shape indicating for the voltage ranges described herein a voltage dependent rate limiting process associated with surface electrochemical oxidation. As PEC etching proceeds the thin film becomes rough at the nanoscale and ultimately the self limiting etch kinetics leads to an ensemble of nanoparticles. This change in InGaN film volume and morphology leads to a characteristic dependence of PEC etch rate on time an incubation time followed by a rise then a peak then a slow decay.

InGaN and GaN thin films were grown on sapphire templates by metal organic vapor phase epitaxy MOVPE . A thick 4 5 micron GaN buffer layer was first grown on a sapphire substrate at 1050 C. followed in some cases by a 100 nm thick InGaN underlayer followed by a 3 to 20 nm thick InGaN film grown at 770 C. finally followed in some cases by a 10 nm thick GaN cap grown at 800 C. A photoelectrochemical cell used for QSC PEC etching of the epitaxial InGaN thin film is shown in . Metallic indium electrodes applied to the front of the sample by contact with In wire at 280 C. were used as the working electrode. A 0.2M HSOaqueous solution was used as the working electrolyte rather than the more common KOH aqueous solution which largely eliminated etching in the absence of light. The second harmonic of a tunable Ti sapphire laser 400 500 nm wavelength 2 ps pulse width 1 nm linewidth 82 MHz pulse repetition rate 10 mW was used for photoexcitation during PEC etching. Light was directed through an optical fiber then through a quartz window then through 1.5 cm of electrolyte resulting in a 2 cm diameter Gaussian spot on the sample. The samples were suspended in the PEC cell with PEC etching performed using an electrochemical analyzer. A Pt counter electrode and an Ag AgCl reference electrode were used.

The microstructure of the InGaN film and of its interface with the underlying GaN is shown in the STEM in the inset to . The InGaN appears brighter than the GaN due to the higher mass of In. EDS mapping showed a uniform distribution of In across the thin film the In content for the sample was measured to be 13 i.e. InGaN .

To understand how the degree of photoexcitation changes with laser wavelength and film thickness optical absorption of the films was examined. shows the transmission through a typical sample prior to etching a 20 nm thick InGaN epitaxial film on a 5 m thick GaN buffer layer all on a sapphire substrate. The optical absorption observed at wavelengths below 380 nm is due to the thick GaN buffer layer the optical absorption observed at wavelengths between 380 and 450 nm is due to the thin InGaN film. The offset beyond the bandgap below 450 nm is reflected light the spectral oscillations are primarily due to thin film interference effects in the light reflected at the InGaN air and the GaN substrate interfaces. The gradual rather than sharp fall off in absorption beyond 380 nm is attributed to inhomogeneous broadening from alloy fluctuations and internal piezoelectric fields.

The photoexcitation laser wavelengths of the lasers used in the PEC etching experiments are indicated by the arrows. The absorption coefficient of the InGaN film at these wavelengths can be extracted from the reflectance R and transmittance T from the expression R T exp h where the film thickness h 20 nm. The absorption coefficient at 420 nm was 6.4 10cm for example.

To understand the range of potentials over which no dark electrochemical reaction occurs the inset to shows a cyclic voltammogram in the initial stages of PEC etching of the InGaN thin film in the absence of photoexcitation. It can be seen that there is only a non Faradaic double layer charge discharge current in the range from 0.2 to 1.6 V. The onset of a Faradaic current at 1.6 V can be attributed to oxidation of water. The onset of a Faradaic current at 0.2 V can be attributed to hydrogen evolution. Thus the range of potentials over which no dark electrochemistry occurs is relatively large and the experiments described below stayed within this range.

In the presence of photoexcitation in the initial stages of PEC etching of the InGaN thin film an anodic current appears at 0.1 V. As seen in this current increases with increasing laser intensity and decreasing laser wavelength consistent with a photoexcited process and with an InGaN absorption coefficient that increases with increasing photon energy above its bandgap. Indeed the sensitivity to wavelength is very strong with the axes scales in and decreasing by two orders of magnitude as wavelength increases from 420 to 430 to 440 nm. Negligible photocurrent was observed at laser wavelength longer than 450 nm which is below the InGaN absorption band edge shown in .

The magnitudes of the anodic currents and the shapes of the current potential voltammograms over the studied voltage range depend on photoexcitation rate. At lower photoexcitation rates due to either lower laser intensities or reduced absorption at longer laser wavelengths the voltammograms are S shaped increasing rapidly at voltages just beyond 0.1 V then saturating at voltages significantly beyond 0.1 V. At low voltages surface oxidation is slow and rate limiting. As voltage is increased the rate of surface oxidation increases exponentially until ultimately becoming rate limited by the photoexcitation resulting in the observed S shapes.

At higher photoexcitation rates due either to higher laser intensities or to increased absorption at shorter laser wavelength the voltammograms PEC etch rates increase super linearly with voltage. However up to the maximum voltage examined the PEC etch rates do not saturate i.e. the S shape are not observed. The possible effects of mass transport due to laser heating are neglected since the variation in temperature at such low power intensities is negligible. See M. Lax 48 9 3919 1977 .

The PEC etch rate at 0.9 V as determined by the etch current from versus photoexcitation rate calculated as the product of the incident laser power time the fraction of light absorbed as determined by the absorption coefficient from is shown in . A nearly linear increase of etch rate with light absorption i.e. charge carrier creation was observed increasing as the 0.8 power.

An etch efficiency can be defined as the number of electron holes annihilated by the PEC etching reaction divided by the number of photons absorbed by the film. For the 420 nm laser illumination this etch efficiency ranged from 14 1 mW to 6 50 mW which illustrates the sub linear scaling described above. As the low laser powers used in these experiments the dominant competing carrier destruction mechanism is expected to be non radiative recombination at defects which should scale linearly with laser power and thus with carrier density . Additional competing non linear carrier destruction pathways may account for the slow decrease in etching efficiency with increasing laser power.

The kinetics during the initial stages of PEC etching of the InGaN thin film are described above. As the process proceeds the etching reaction rate evolves as illustrated in .

These changes can be largely attributed to the decrease in volume as the film etches and thus to a decrease in the total photoexcitation rate per unit area illuminated and through the thickness of the film . However as the film is etching its morphology is also changing first roughening and then ultimately evolving into very small 2 to 5 nm scale nanoparticles see discussed below . These nanoparticles are in the quantum size regime leading to increasing bandgaps when their diameters are further decreased.

The manner in which this roughening and eventual nanoparticle formation influences the PEC etch currents is illustrated in and which plots the PEC etch current as a function of time at a constant potential of 0.9 V and for various starting film thicknesses respectively. After an initial current transient due to non Faradaic double layer charging for each laser intensity and film thickness the PEC etch current follows a characteristic pattern first an incubation period second a rise to a peak etch rate and third a decay with a long tail.

The initial incubation period is likely due to two offsetting phenomena as the film etches the total absorption rate through the film thickness and thus carrier creation rate decreases causing the etch rate to decrease but as the film roughens the surface area increases which causes the etch rate to increase. Eventually the surface area effect becomes stronger and the etch rate increases until it reaches a peak at which the product of light absorption and surface area is maximum. Subsequently total surface area no longer increases while the film volume continues to decrease leading to the observed etch rate decrease. In addition as the nanoparticles that are formed enter the quantum size regime the bandgap of these nanoparticles increase leading to an even more pronounced drop in light absorption and etch rate. This interpretation is consistent with a longer incubation time at lower laser intensities assuming the morphology evolution is similar but just slower. It is also consistent with an incubation time that decreases with decreasing film thickness since this would require a shorter time for the surface roughness to reach a peak . Quantum dots quantum sized nanoparticles are also created more quickly for thinner films.

All of the etch curves show a current decay with a very long tail. This highlights a unique characteristic of semiconductor etching promoted by photoexcitation unlike other chemical or electrochemical etching processes that continue until the etched material is completely removed such as in metal striping. In the PEC etch process of the present invention a high density of nanoparticles remain out to very long times.

As an example PEC etching was used to laterally etch quantum well layers in an array of InGaN GaN nanowires. The nanowires were fabricated using a top down lithographic method and contained 3 nm thick InGaN quantum wells separated by 10 nm GaN layers. See G. T. Wang et al. 17 23 5773 2006 . The rest of the nanowires at both ends are thicker GaN layers so PEC etching at wavelengths below the GaN bandgap can occur only laterally from the edges as shown in inset and . For these structures because there is no film roughening but instead the InGaN disks within the nanowires simply etch radially inwards there is no incubation time. Instead the current decreases exponentially with time as volume and associated photoexcitation rate decrease.

After lateral etching for 5 minutes these quantum wells were etched laterally inwards by about 2 nm. However the GaN barrier layers were also partially etched. The bottom faces of the quantum wells were etched deeper than the top portions forming a horizontally asymmetric V shape. Because the MOVPE grown material is oriented with the N face down this image provides atomic resolution evidence of the preferential PEC etching of N faces over the Ga faces. See H. Bae et al. 52 8 2013 and Y. Gao et al. 84 17 3322 2004 . After 15 minutes the lateral etch distance increases to 30 to 40 nm as shown in . Again most of the GaN layers were affected at the N faces while the top Ga faces remained unetched. Because these nanowires were etched at 405 nm laser wavelength which is close to the absorption band edge of GaN the bandgap selection alone is insufficient to etch selectively etch only the InGaN.

The present invention has been described as a method for quantum size controlled photoelectrochemical etching of semiconductor nanostructures. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

