---

title: Methods and systems of an automated answering system
abstract: In one embodiment, a computer-implemented method of a designated automated answering system (AAS) includes receiving a client-side application message to an AAS. The AAS includes a server-side entity managed by an enterprise. The client-side application message comprises a user's query for enterprise-related information. The client-side application message are parsed to identify user-identification data. A step includes determining one or more information sources relevant to the query for enterprise-related information. At least one or more information sources are queried. A step includes receiving a query information from the at least one or more information sources. The query information is relevant to the user's query. A natural-language text message that responds to the user's query is generated. The natural-language text message includes a single response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565305&OS=09565305&RS=09565305
owner: 
number: 09565305
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150612
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 011 031 title METHODS AND SYSTEMS OF AN AUTOMATED ANSWERING SYSTEM and filed Jun. 12 2014. This application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This application relates generally to electronic messages and more specifically to a system article of manufacture and method of an automated answering system and or other services.

A significant rise of messaging in mobile from a consumer standpoint is occurring. It is noted that usage of messaging in an enterprise context can be different. For example messaging can be closely tied with the corporate business applications. Accordingly improvements in a simple reply request mobile messaging paradigm can be applied to retrieve information from business applications.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method of a designated automated answering system AAS includes receiving a client side application message to an AAS. The AAS includes a server side entity managed by an enterprise. The client side application message comprises a user s query for enterprise related information. The client side application message are parsed to identify user identification data. A step includes determining one or more information sources relevant to the query for enterprise related information. At least one or more information sources are queried. A step includes receiving a query information from the at least one or more information sources. The query information is relevant to the user s query. A natural language text message that responds to the user s query is generated. The natural language text message includes a single response.

Optionally a step can include determining that more than one response is available to the user s query. One or more queries can be provided to the user via the client side application. A step can include receiving one or more user responses to the one or more queries. The user can use responses to determine a most relevant response to the user. A step can include using the most relevant response as the single response.

The Figures described above are a representative set and are not an exhaustive with respect to embodying the invention.

Disclosed are a system method and article of manufacture of an automated answering system and or other services. The following description is presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the various embodiments. Descriptions of specific devices techniques and applications are provided only as examples. Various modifications to the examples described herein can be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other examples and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the various embodiments.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment one example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art can recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

The schematic flow chart diagrams included herein are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one embodiment of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more steps or portions thereof of the illustrated method. Additionally the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams and they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.

As used herein in use of terms such as current real time and or other similar synonyms assume various latencies such as networking and or processing latencies.

Knowledge base can be a store complex structured and unstructured information. The knowledge base can include enterprise information.

Information retrieval can be the activity of obtaining information resources relevant to an information need from a collection of information resources. Searches can be based on metadata or on full text or other content based indexing. Example information retrieval methods that can be implemented herein include inter alia expert search finding genomic information retrieval geographic information retrieval information retrieval for chemical structures information retrieval in software engineering legal information retrieval and or vertical search.

Machine learning can include the construction and study of systems that can learn from data. Example machine learning techniques that can be used herein include inter alia decision tree learning association rule learning artificial neural networks inductive logic programming support vector machines clustering Bayesian networks reinforcement learning representation learning similarity and metric learning and or sparse dictionary learning.

Mobile device can include smart phones cell phones personal digital assistants tablet computers computers smart watches smart glasses e.g. Google Glass etc.

Natural language processing NLP can include natural language understanding and other algorithms that enable computers to derive meaning from human and or other natural language input. NLP can also provide for natural language generation e.g. convert information from computer databases into readable human language .

Text message can be a form of an electronic message. Exemplary text messaging systems include inter alia short message service SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS message instant messaging programs for mobile devices e.g. iMessages and the like for other mobile operating systems other proprietary text messaging applications and or systems.

An automated answering system AAS is provided. The AAS can answer questions with meaningful relevant responses. The questions can be provided from a text messaging system e.g. a proprietary text messaging system provided via a mobile application . An example interaction pattern may be similar to how users send and or receive SMS messages on mobile devices. A user can communicate a text message query to AAS service. For example the text message can be Where are we with XYZ opportunity . The AAS service can automatically obtain the answer and provide an automated contextual response via text message such as Status was updated to Won by Mike Charles 2 days ago . The AAS service is also capable of including voice to speech functionalities. In this way a user with a non touch input mobile device e.g. Google Glass can interact with an AAS. The AAS can respond by computing querying for information from enterprise systems databases and other information repositories and returning a best match result. The AAS can also implement computation on behalf of the user and using users permissions and privileges e.g. a level of access granted in computer security .

An AAS can implement various prioritized responses based on user preferences or user behavior to a received user text message query. In addition to answering responses the AAS can perform specific actions requested and or implied by a user text message. For example the AAS can forward the response as another text message to another user and or group. The AAS can forward the response in other electronic message formats e.g. via email and or SMS . The AAS can request to schedule updates and or responses to the user s query. For example a user can schedule the same question to be asked on daily weekly timely basis. For example the question user query may be What s our current sales pipeline . The user can schedule to automatically communicate this query to the AAS every week. Alternatively the AAS need not wait for the automatic weekly query from the user side application but rather automatically provide a weekly response to the original query. An AAS can include a snooze option. For example a user can snooze e.g. delay the response and ask the AAS to remind him her after a particular period of time. In one example the user can request What s Jack Blake s phone number and snooze the response until 5 PM . The AAS can communicate the response 5 PM. These examples are provided by way of example and not of limitation.

It is noted that an AAS can provide various types of responses according to the information requested in the user query. Reponses can vary from simple text responses to images and specific type of business objects depending on the type of hot e.g. a virtual agent an automated or semi automated tool that carries out repetitive and mundane tasks etc. .

In some examples an AAS can accept a set of continuous queries questions. A user can ask a series of related questions wherein a subsequent question can relate to an earlier questions response. Accordingly the AAS can preserve the context of the conversation. For examples a question may be What is the status of the HP deal After one or more subsequent query response iterations the user may wish to obtain further deeper information about the HP deal. The user can query Who is working on this deal When was the last activity on this deal or another query related to an earlier provided for deal . The AAS can relate link the word deal back to an earlier query or set of queries. The AAS can then provide a contextually meaningful response.

AAS services can be provided as part of a subscription service. Users can subscribe to various categories of AAS. AAS can specialize in various information genres. Various categories of AAS services can be provided. For example a public AAS can provide a generic services. The public AAS can used by any user across an organization enterprise. The response can also be generic and not specific to any organization s business applications. An example of a generic AAS service can be a support AAS e.g. technical support service news stock information etc. . Private proprietary AAS services can also be provided. This AAS can be configured specifically by each organization based on the target business application s they would like to service. For example a sales AAS can be used to answer specific sales related queries for an organization. The sale AAS can be tied to the organizations sales application. The sales AAS can have access to the sales application resources and or databases. Another example can be a human resources AAS that answers queries specifically for an organization s human resources applications.

In one embodiment an AAS can traverse multiple business applications e.g. human resources sales shipping and tracking customer relationship management marketing accounting expense management etc. . In one example each AAS need not be tied to a business application e.g. Salesforce oracle ERP etc. . Rather an AAS can transverse multiple business applications. For example if the organization uses Salesforce for tracking opportunities and uses UPS to ship packages to its customers an AAS can traverse across these systems to respond to questions queries from users. For example continuing a previous example a user may provide the query did we close the HP deal . The user can then query the same AAS Did we ship the CD to HP . The AAS can obtain the information from the shipping department parse it and generate a response Yes it was shipped on Monday the tracking code is UX23124 .

A user can setup specific notifications associated with an AAS. These notifications can be setup when the user implements a schedule action up receipt of a response. The user can also review all the notifications they have set for each AAS change or update them as necessary. An AAS can be implemented without exposure of data to an enterprise s IT department. The AAS can also be provided with a colloquial language element e.g. jokes snide comments etc. .

It is noted that the type of information obtained by AAS can depend on the identity of the user providing query text message . In one example a user can undergo a user authentication process to establish identity and or permissions with AAS . In another example user authentication can be automatically performed based on user identity and or other metadata obtained from such sources as the text message e.g. device origin location user identity metadata from a client side application in the user s mobile device etc.

AAS can generate a natural language text message. As opposed to a search result with a plethora of results AAS can generate a single response. In the event that one or more options may be possible AAS can provide queries to the user to determine a most relevant response to the user. Moreover AAS can query a user to provide explanations that assist AAS in information retrieval and or natural language generations steps.

For example AAS system can include a natural language processing NLP module . NLP module can implement natural language understanding part of speech tagging parsing relationship extraction and or other NLP algorithms for interpreting an incoming user generated texts. Moreover NLP module can include functionalities for generating a NLP text message and or other message type e.g. text to speech for generation of voice messages etc. .

AAS system can include information retrieval module . Information retrieval module can query various information sources relevant to a user s query. Information retrieval module can also obtain information from various third party sources e.g. Google search retail websites news websites sports websites etc. . Information retrieval module can determine one or more best sources for query relevant information.

AAS system can include an inference engine . Inference engine can draw conclusions by analyzing queries in light of a database of expert knowledge it draws upon. Inference engine can reach logical outcomes based on the premises the data establishes. Inference engine can also utilize probability calculations to reach conclusions that the knowledge database doesn t strictly support but instead implies. In one example inference engine can cycle through three sequential steps match rules select rules and execute rules. The execution of the rules can result in new facts or goals being added to the knowledge base which will trigger the cycle to repeat. This cycle continues until no new rules can be matched. Accordingly a single user response can be built and refined. Inference engine can pulling all data that a user has permission to access. Inference engine can determine a response that is best match of information for the user e.g. based on a user identification and the content of the user s query .

Machine learning module can learn from previous queries and responses. This can be used to increase the accuracies of later responses. For example a user can query What is the status of the HP deal However the token HP may not be recognized. Machine learning module can cause a counter query to the user to be generated and sent. The counter query can be What is HP The user can respond via text message Hewlett Packard . The machine learning module can then interpret later uses of the token with Hewlett Packard . In other examples tokens can be learned on a user by user basis and or a time period basis.

Action module enable a user to take actions on information returned in a response to the user s query. Example actions are provided supra. For example a user can schedule repeat queries and or responses to be obtained and delivered on a scheduled basis. The user can forward responses to other system users. The user can provide other actions to an AAS.

Communications module can interact with application programming interfaces API of other entities and or various systems within an enterprise e.g. human resources database sales portal etc. to obtain information. Communications module can interact mobile side client applications. Communications module can obtain information from the other modules of and compose natural languages messages e.g. emails text messages push notifications augmented reality messages etc. to users. Accordingly communications module can include various human language Natural Language Generation NLG functionalities and or human language translations functionalities. Communications module can also implement various context awareness methods to determine a user s current context e.g. location enterprise context such as position in an enterprise calendar information etc. .

When the user asks the question for the first time AAS system can prompt the user to provide access to the target enterprise system using their username password or author any other type of authorization challenge. AAS system can aggregate data across all users within the same entity e.g. company and partition the data across each target enterprise system e.g. Salesforce expenses payments etc. . In this way a representative data set can be created for an entire organization. Additionally result sets can be optimized based on the aggregated data. AAS system can pull in changes in damsel from the target applications on a scheduled and or real time basis. An initial association map per enterprise application can be fed to the AAS system . For instance if AAS system is automating responses from a Salesforce application an initial association map can represent a map of enterprise object and the actions that can be performed on these objects. A loopback from user on responses can enable AAS system maintain the association map up to date. AAS system can update the association map based on user questions and accuracy of responses back from the user. AAS system can further include other functionalities not shown . For example AAS system can include a user subscription manager user authentication manager scheduling calendar modules user registration and membership managers etc.

It is noted that databases with information can be automatically sampled by various statistical algorithm. There are several methods which may be used to select a proper sample size and or use a given sample to make statements within a range of accuracy determined by the sample size about a specified population. These methods may include for example 

1. Classical Statistics as for example in Probability and Statistics for Engineers and Scientists by R. E. Walpole and R. H. Myers Prentice Hall 1993 Chapter 8 and Chapter 9 where estimates of the mean and variance of the population are derived.

2. Bayesian Analysis as for example in Bayestan Data Analysis by A Gelman I. B. Carlin H. S. Stern and a D. B. Rubin Chapman and Hall 1995 Chapter 7 where several sampling designs are discussed.

3. Artificial intelligence techniques or other such techniques as Expert Systems or Neural Networks as for example in Expert Systems Principles and Programming by Giarratano and G. Riley PWS Publishing 1994 Chapter 4 or Practical Neural Networks Recipes in C by T. Masters Academic Press 1993 Chapters 15 16 19 and 20 where population models are developed from acquired data samples.

4. Latent Dirichlet Allocation Journal of Machine Learning Research 3 2003 993 1022 by David M. Blei Computer Science Division University of California Berkeley Calif. 94720 USA Andrew Y. Ng Computer Science Department Stanford University Stanford Calif. 94305 USA

A Maximum Entropy Model for Part Of Speech Tagging Adwait Ratnaparkhi University of Pennsylvania Dept. of Computer and Information Science

It is noted that these statistical and probabilistic methodologies are for exemplary poses and other statistical methodologies can be utilized and or combined in various embodiments. These statistical methodologies can be utilized elsewhere in whole or in part when appropriate as well.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes can be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. For example the various devices modules etc. described herein can be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry firmware software or any combination of hardware firmware and software e.g. embodied in a machine readable medium .

In addition it can be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein can be embodied in a machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. a computer system and can be performed in any order e.g. including using means for achieving the various operations . Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. In some embodiments the machine readable medium can be a non transitory form of machine readable medium.

