---

title: Social static ranking for search
abstract: In one embodiment, one or more computing devices receive, from a client device of a first user, a query from the first user. The computer devices search a social graph to identify one or more nodes of the social graph that are relevant to the query. The computer devices obtain a static rank for each identified node. The static rank is based at least in part on a number of edges of a particular edge type that are connected to the node in the graph or attributes of edges connected to the node in the graph. The computer devices send to the client device of the first user for display, a search-results page responsive to the received query. The search-results page includes reference to one or more nodes having a static rank greater than a threshold rank.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514196&OS=09514196&RS=09514196
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09514196
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151217
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 556430 filed on Dec. 1 2014 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 560889 filed July 27 2012 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 935 255 on Jan. 13 2015 each of which is incorporated by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to improving the quality of search results identified for search queries.

The Internet provides a vast amount of information which may be stored at many different sites and on many different devices such as on servers and clients or in databases around the world. These different devices at the different sites are communicatively linked to computer or communication networks over wire line or wireless connections. A person may access specific pieces of information available on the Internet using a suitable network device e.g. a computer a smart mobile telephone etc. connected to a network.

Due to the sheer amount of information available on the Internet it is impractical as well as impossible for a person e.g. a network user to manually search throughout the Internet for the specific pieces of information he needs. Instead most network users rely on different types of computer implemented tools to help them locate the desired information. One of the most commonly and widely used computer implemented tools is a search tool also referred to as a search engine. To search for information relating to a specific topic on the Internet a user typically provides a few words often referred to as a search query or simply query describing the topic to a search tool. The search tool conducts a search based on the search query using various search algorithms and generates a set of search results each corresponding to some information that is likely to be related to the search query. The search results are then presented to the user.

Sophisticated search tools implement many functionalities to better identify relevant search results. For example a search tool may search an index of documents or items according to one or more search algorithms in order to generate a set of search results in response to a search query. The index of documents or items also called a search index may be ranked in a particular order e.g. most important to least important that may be independent of any search query. There are continuous efforts to improve the quality of search results generated by search tools.

In particular embodiments a computer implemented search tool is designed to search for information relevant to specific topics on one or more networks such as the Internet or an Intranet. To conduct a search a network user may issue a search query to the search tool. The search query generally contains one or more words that describe a topic. In response the search tool may identify a set of search results each corresponding to some information that is likely to be related to the search query. A search tool may search an index of documents or items according to one or more search algorithms in order to generate a set of search results in response to a search query. The index of documents or items also called a search index may be ranked in a particular order e.g. most important to least important that may be independent of any search query.

When ranking a set of items in a search index many different factors may be considered. In particular embodiments the search tool may be provided by or associated with a social networking system. The social networking system may have any number of features such as for example and without limitation enabling its users to contact their friends via emails or messages organize events form social groups upload and share photos read news feeds use various web based applications e.g. provided either by the social networking system or third parties play online games and so on. In particular embodiments one or more items in the search index may be associated with such a feature of the social networking system. When ranking the items in a search index of the social networking system the level of interaction the social networking system s users have with the item may be taken into consideration.

A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike or relationships of beliefs knowledge or prestige. In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social networking websites. Such social networking websites enable their members who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. For example the social networking website operated by Facebook Inc. at www. facebook.corn enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails instant messages or blog postings organize social events share photos receive news of their friends or interesting events play games organize events etc. In particular embodiments entities of a social network including for example individuals organizations locations or events may have associated web pages within a social networking website. Each of these web pages may contain information related to its associated entity. For example a web page for a user of the social network which may be referred to as a user profile page may contain information about the user including for example photographs of the user information about the user s interests or the user s academic or professional background. Similarly the profile page for an event a location or an organization may contain information about the event e.g. invitees time and place of the event the location e.g. pictures of the location or a map of the location or the organization e.g. information about the organization and its members or the contact information of the organization . The profile page for a user or other entity may be accessible to other users or entities of the social network depending for example on privacy settings for the profile page. For example the social network may allow users to post information or messages such as for example user status comments photographs or multimedia files known as posts on another user or entity s profile page in a section of the page known as a wall. In particular embodiments the wall of a profile page of an entity may be a pre determined section of a profile page that is accessible to other entities of the social network. In particular embodiments the wall of a profile page may be organized in a dynamically arranged chronological manner and this type of wall may be referred to as a timeline for an entity of the social network.

A social networking system may contain a vast amount of information related to its users. Such information is not limited to the social connections of the individual users but may include for example and without limitation demographical information network or social activities behavior profiles and personal preferences interests or hobbies of the individual users. Particular embodiments may represent the information contained in a social networking system using a social graph that may have any number of nodes and edges an example of which is illustrated in .

In social graph illustrated in each node may represent an entity which may be human e.g. user of the social networking system or non human e.g. location place event action business object message post image photo video page news feed application group etc. . Two nodes are connected with an edge if the two nodes are related in some way i.e. there is a relationship between the two nodes . Example cases when two nodes in social graph may be related and thus connected with an edge may include without limitation 1 the two nodes represent two users of a social networking system respectively and the two users are socially connected e.g. friends of each other 2 the two nodes represent a user of the social networking system and an event respectively and the user has attended the event 3 the two nodes represent a user of the social networking system and a location and the user has been to the location 4 the two nodes represent a user of the social networking system and a page on the social networking system and the user has interacted with e.g. viewed the page 5 the two nodes represent an event and a location respectively and the event is held at the location 6 the two nodes represent a user of the social networking system and an image e.g. a digital photograph respectively and the user is in the image 7 the two nodes represent a user of the social networking system and a product e.g. a mobile telephone respectively and the user owns and uses the product and 8 the two nodes represent a user of the social networking system and a software application e.g. a web based game respectively and the user uses the application e.g. plays the game . A connection may exist between two humans a human and a non human entity and two non human entities without limitation. Any type of relationship between two human or non human entities may result in a connection between the two entities. Furthermore one or more nodes of social graph may be located outside of the social networking system. As an example one or more nodes of social graph may be located at a third party location external to the social networking system additionally edges may connect these external nodes to nodes within the social networking system.

In social graph when there is an edge between two specific nodes the two nodes may be considered directly related. For example edge A connects nodes A and B and thus nodes A and B are directly related. Similarly edge B connects nodes B and C and thus nodes B and C are directly related. When there is no edge between two particular nodes the two nodes may still be considered indirectly related. For example there is no edge directly connecting nodes A and C however nodes A and C may still be considered indirectly related through node B.

In particular embodiments a search tool may be provided by or associated with a social networking system to enables its users to search for information relating to specific topics in a social context. The information represented by a social graph such as the one illustrated in may be used to help identify and rank items e.g. nodes in social graph in one or more search indices of the social networking system. When the search tool receives a search query from a user it may identify a set of search results considered relevant to the search query. The search tool may search an index of documents or items according to one or more search algorithms in order to generate a set of search results in response to the search query. In order to provide better search results the index of documents or items also called a search index may be ranked in a particular order e.g. most important to least important that may be independent of any search query.

The search tool of a social networking system may employ multiple search indices for the multiple types of topics or items that its users may search for. As an example and without limitation there may be separate and independent search indices for photos or videos users applications locations pages posts groups events or any other type of node in the social graph of the social networking system. The items in each search index may be ranked based on various factors and independent of any particular search query. In particular embodiments the items in a search index that are ranked higher are presented to a user in response to a search query before items in a search index that are ranked lower. Existing search engines e.g. search engines provided by Google Microsoft or Yahoo may rank search results based mainly on content relevance but may not take into consideration social context or social information relevant to any social networking system. Instead or in addition to content relevance particular embodiments may take into consideration the social information available to the social networking system e.g. in the form of social graph providing or associated with the search tool when ranking items in the search indices.

A single search query may in the context of a social networking system potentially require a search over billions of documents or items to determine search results. In particular embodiments a search index or each of multiple search indices of the social networking system may rank the documents or items in the search index based on a value calculated for each document or item. The value of each document or item ranked in the search index which may be referred to as the document s static rank may be calculated in a manner that is independent of any search query e.g. the static rank of a document or item in a search index may be fixed across all possible search queries relating to the document or item . As discussed above in particular embodiments various types of information available to the social networking system e.g. in the form of social graph may be used when ranking items in the search indices. Particular embodiments using information available to the social networking system will be discussed in further detail below. In particular embodiments the process of retrieving search results from a search index in a social networking system may be organized into two stages. In the first stage the social networking system may determine the top N results e.g. several thousand results that satisfy the requirements of a search query by choosing the top N statically ranked items in the relevant search index or indices. At a second stage the social networking system may apply another possibly more complex ranking model to these initial N results to determine the final results to return to a user. In this manner search results that are both personalized to a user performing the search and that take into account a broader context within the social networking system may be efficiently provided to the user.

In particular embodiments an edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments each edge may comprise one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user e.g. A may indicate that a second user e.g. B is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication the social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request the social networking system may create an edge e.g. A connecting the first user and the second user in social graph and store the edge in one or more data stores implemented in or by one or more of a variety of consolidated or distributed computing systems databases or data servers within the social networking system or at one or more external locations . This disclosure contemplates edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship a business relationship a fan relationship a follower relationship a visitor relationship a subscriber relationship a superior subordinate relationship a reciprocal relationship a non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a non user node e.g. photos or videos applications locations pages posts groups events or any other type of node between two user nodes or between two non user nodes in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may construct a page corresponding to a location node for the Old Pro a sports bar in Palo Alto Calif. The page may include a selectable Like icon. A user viewing the page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client device may indicate that she likes the location represented by the location node by selecting the Like icon such as for example by clicking on the icon which may cause the client device to transmit to the social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the sports bar. In response to the message the social networking system may create an edge between the user and the location node. In particular embodiments the social networking system may store the edge in one or more data stores. The data store may be implemented in or by one or more of a variety of consolidated or distributed computing systems databases or data servers within the social networking system or at one or more external locations. Although this disclosure describes forming edges in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates forming edges in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way of limitation rather than visiting a page and clicking an icon a user may use a mobile application or another suitable application that is operable to form an edge between the user s user node and another node. Moreover although this disclosure describes particular types of edges this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of edges.

Social graph may comprise other types of edges between a user node and a non user node two user nodes or two non user nodes. In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a non user node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user of the user node toward the non user node. As an example and not by way of limitation in addition to a user liking a sports bar a user may check in to a place represented by a node in social graph . The page corresponding to a place may include for example a selectable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly by clicking on these icons the social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to the user s action corresponding to the node. Although this disclosure describes edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and place nodes this disclosure contemplates edges with any suitable attributes connecting a user node and any type of node. Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a non user node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between any types of nodes representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has checked in at a particular place. Alternatively a separate edge could be generated to represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between two nodes.

In particular embodiments a particular entity e.g. a location or a company may correspond to one or more nodes. The social graph may comprise a plurality of nodes corresponding to the same real world entity. For example multiple nodes may correspond to different pages about the same physical location. As an example and not by way of limitation a popular restaurant may have several pages such as for example a fan page an official page or a review page authored by various users. Each of these nodes may have its own set of relationships represented as edges in social graph and each of these nodes may be ranked individually in a search index. In yet other embodiments the ranking of one of these nodes e.g. the ranking of a fan page for a movie may be influenced by the ranking of an associated node e.g. the ranking of the official page for the same movie .

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a value for a node based on the based on the number and types of edges connected to the node. A particular node may be connected to one or more other nodes by one or more edges and each edge may have particular attributes. In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a value for a node based on the number of edges of each type connected to the node. As one example for purposes of ranking or ordering a given node within a particular search index of the social networking system a value for the node may be calculated as follows. First for each edge type connected to the node the number of corresponding edges may be calculated. For example the number of likes one type of edge that a given node has may be tabulated. Additionally a weighting factor associated with a given edge type for this particular search index may be multiplied by the total number of edges of that type. For example if a node has 20 likes and likes have a weighting factor of 0.5 for this particular search index then for the edge type like the portion or sub value of the node value will be 0.5 20 which is 10. Once the sub value is calculated for each edge type for the node the sub values may then be combined e.g. added to obtain the final node value for ranking the node in this particular search index. In particular embodiments the weighting factor may be positive negative a whole number a fraction of a number or any other suitable numerical value. The social networking system may in other embodiments determine a value for a node based on a level of engagement within the network as measured by a number of edges e.g. actions between the node and other nodes. Nodes with more edges may be given a greater value. For illustration purposes this disclosure discusses values in generic unit terms e.g. 1.0 units 2.4 units etc. however this disclosure contemplates values with any suitable type of units. Moreover this disclosure discusses values for nodes such that larger values may be considered more relevant such as for example when ranking items in a search index. As an example and not by way of limitation a node with 50 edges may be given a value of 5.0 units while a node with 30 edges may be given a value of 2.4 units. As another example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may assign a score or value of 1.0 units to a node if the node has more than 100 edges connecting to user nodes a score of 0.7 units if the node has more than 50 edges connecting to user nodes or a score of 0.5 units if the node has 50 edges or less connecting to user nodes. In particular embodiments the value given based on the number of edges may be normalized. As an example and not by way of limitation the value for a location node may be normalized based on capacity of the location associated with the location node. For example a first location node with 100 edges and a capacity of 100 people may be given the same value as a second location node with 10 edges and a capacity of 10 people. In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a value for a node based on the attributes of the edges connected to the node. As discussed above edges may have various attributes and edges with particular attributes may be given more value than other types of edges. The social networking system may identify the edges connected to a particular node and the attributes of those edges and then determine a value based on the attributes of the edges. As an example and not by way of limitation for a location node associated with the location Union Square the social networking system may give more weighting to edges of checked in than edges of like. While counting a number of edges between a location node and user nodes the social networking system may determine a value for a checked in edge as 1.5 units while determining a value for a like edge as 1.0 units. It is contemplated in this disclosure that edges with particular attributes may be given more value than other types of edges. As an example and not by way of limitation for a location node associated with the location Philz Coffee the social networking system may give more weighting to edges of like than edges of checked in. Although this disclosure describes determining values for a node based on edge information in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining values for nodes based on edge information in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a value for a node based on time stamps associated with the edges connected to the node. Edges that were generated more recently may be weighted more heavily when determining a value than edges that were generated in the past. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may assign a score of 1.0 to a node if 100 edges were connected to that node in the past week while the social networking system may assign a score of 0.5 to a node if 100 edges were connected to that node in the past month. As another example and not by way of limitation a node may be given a score of 1.0 for having 1000 edges connected to it in the past week a score of 0.8 for having 1000 edges connected to it in the past two weeks a score of 0.6 for having 1000 edges connected to it in the past month and so on. Although this disclosure describes determining a value for a node based on time stamps associated with edges in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining a value for a node based on time stamps associated with edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may include a search index that enables users to search nodes of the social networking system corresponding to images or videos. The nodes corresponding to images or videos may each have a value determined based on one or more factors and the value may be used to rank the node in the image video search index or indices if image and video are treated separately . As an example and without limitation factors used to compute a value for image or video nodes include the upload or capture date of an image or video e.g. newer images or videos may have a higher value the number of likes an image or video has e.g. the more likes the higher the value the number of comments an image or video has e.g. the more comments the higher the value or the number of shares an image or video has e.g. the more shares the higher the value . Additionally as further examples and without limitation for a node corresponding to video the length e.g. in seconds or the bitrate of the video may be used to compute a value for the node e.g. with longer videos or videos with higher bitrate being given higher values . In yet other embodiments the number of tags e.g. user labels that a node corresponding to a video or image has may be used as a factor in computing a value for ranking the node. As an example if a photo or video node has a number of tags greater than a particular threshold the value calculated for the node may be less that is the node may be penalized in the image video search index ranking for appearing like a spam image with numerous tags. In yet other embodiments metadata in images or videos may be used to calculate node values for image or video nodes. As examples metadata indicating what type of equipment created the image or video e.g. a DSLR or a cell phone camera how much light was present in the image or video e.g. whether flash was used whether the photo is under or over exposed whether the image or video was taken indoors or outdoors or whether the faces of users of the social networking system appear in the image or video e.g. if a popular user is in an image may be used to calculate a node value for an image or a video node.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may include a search index that enables users to search nodes of the social networking system corresponding to graph nodes such as songs albums or any type of application e.g. a game or a newsreader . The nodes corresponding to applications may each have a value determined based on one or more factors and the value may be used to rank the node in the application search index. As an example and without limitation factors used to compute a value for application nodes include the number of users e.g. game players or readers the application has had in a pre determined time period. For example the number of users an application has had in the prior month the prior week the prior day or prior hour may be used to compute a value for the application node each timeframe having a different weighting factor for example . Additionally input from another system including for example a quality score may also be used to compute a value for an application node. The nodes corresponding to songs or albums may each have a value determined based on one or more factors and the value may be used to rank the node in the song or album search index. As an example and without limitation factors used to compute a value for a song or album node include the number of listeners a song or an album has had in the prior month the prior week the prior day or prior hour. Additionally for application nodes song nodes or album nodes the age of the node may be used to calculate a node value e.g. the more recently the node was created the higher the node value .

In particular embodiments the social networking system may include a search index that enables users to search nodes of the social networking system corresponding to other users of the social networking system. The nodes corresponding to users may each have a value determined based on one or more factors and the value may be used to rank the node in the user search index. As an example and without limitation factors used to compute a value for a user node include the number of friends the user has e.g. more friends lead to a higher value the number of subscribers or one way followers a user has e.g. more subscribers lead to a higher value or the age of a user e.g. a younger user has a higher value .

In particular embodiments the social networking system may include a search index that enables users to search nodes of the social networking system corresponding to events. The nodes corresponding to events may each have a value determined based on one or more factors and the value may be used to rank the node in the event search index. As an example and without limitation factors used to compute a value for an event node include date of the event e.g. how immediate the event is in the past or the future the number of RSVPs an event has or the number of wall or timeline posts an event has.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may include a search index that enables users to search nodes of the social networking system corresponding to places e.g. locations or pages e.g. entities having a webpage . The nodes corresponding to places may each have a value determined based on one or more factors and the value may be used to rank the node in the places search index. As an example and without limitation factors used to compute a value for a place node include the number of likes that the place has the number of wall or timeline posts the place has the number of check ins a place has or the number of check ins a place has weighted by the recency of the check in e.g. decaying the importance of a check in with time such as by multiplying a check in from one month ago by 0.1 and a check in from yesterday by 0.9 . Similarly the nodes corresponding to pages may each have a value determined based on one or more factors and the value may be used to rank the node in the pages search index. As an example factors used to compute a value for a page node include the number of likes the page has the number of followers the page has or the number of wall or timeline posts the page has and each of these factors potentially may be weighted by recency. As an additional example if a page has a URL that is faulty this may be a factor that decreases the value of the node associated with that page.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may include a search index that enables users to search nodes of the social networking system corresponding to posts in the social networking system e.g. wall or timeline posts or comments on wall or timeline posts images or other items . The nodes corresponding to posts may each have a value determined based on one or more factors and the value may be used to rank the node in the post search index. As an example and without limitation factors used to compute a value for a post node include the recency of the post e.g. posts created more recently have a higher value than posts created earlier in time posts with more recent interaction have higher value than posts with older interactions the number of comments a post has the number of likes a post has or any other measure of interaction with a post. In particular embodiments a separate search index may be created for high interaction posts e.g. posts with a high number of comments or likes and the ranking of post nodes within this search index may be less influenced by creation time and more influenced by the number of and recency of interactions with the post nodes.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may include a search index that enables users to search nodes of the social networking system corresponding to groups of users of the social networking system. The nodes corresponding to groups may each have a value determined based on one or more factors and the value may be used to rank the node in the groups search index. As an example and without limitation factors used to compute a value for a group node include the number of members in the group the date of creation of the group or the amount of social interaction within the group e.g. number of likes comments posts or images exchanged with the group .

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a value for a node based on one or more factors as described above including social graph information. These determined values may be combined or be cumulative with each other. The determined value for each factor may be additive multiplicative etc. with determined values for other factors. As an example and not by way of limitation a social networking system may give a value of 1.0 to a location node having 10 or more edges connected to it and may give a value of 0.8 to a node corresponding to a location that had a user check in in the past hour. Thus a location node that had a user check in in the past hour and has 10 or more edges may be given a value of 1.8. In particular embodiments values determined based on particular factors may be weighted differently. Using the previous example a location node with 10 or more edges that had a user check in within the past hour may be given a value of a 1.0 b 0.8 where a and b are weightings that may be assigned to the particular factors. Although this disclosure describes determining discrete values for nodes based on particular factors this disclosure contemplates determining non discrete values for nodes based on a variety of factors.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may rank higher valued nodes higher than lower valued nodes within a search index such that the node with the highest value is ranked first and so on. In yet other embodiments the social networking system may rank lower valued nodes higher than higher valued nodes within a search index such that the node with the highest value is ranked last and so on. Any suitable ranking scheme depending on computed node values is contemplated by this disclosure. In particular embodiments the social networking system may transmit information of a particular set of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may rank the nodes within a particular search index based on respective scores or values store the ranked search index in storage implemented in or by one or more of a variety of consolidated or distributed computing systems databases or data servers within the social networking system or in one or more external locations and in response to a user search query search the ranked index and present to the user information of top ranked nodes from the search index that also meet the query requirements.

The search tool functionalities described above may be implemented as a series of instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium that when executed cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described above. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable non transitory storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA C or C . In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

