---

title: System and method for prior art analytics and mapping
abstract: A computer-implemented method and system are provided for monitoring developments in a field of prior art. The method comprises using one or more processors receive a search query including a first patent concept related to the field of prior art; search the Internet as a function of the search query; generate a first set of search results; store the first set of search results in a database; conduct a subsequent search on the Internet as a function of the search query; generate a second set of search results; compare the first and second sets of search results to identify differences in the results; and communicate the differences to a user. An ontology of patent concepts may be stored in a system database. The searches may be conducted automatically on a regular basis thereby notifying the user of any intervening changes in the field of prior art.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652546&OS=09652546&RS=09652546
owner: Black Hills IP Holdings, LLC
number: 09652546
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151125
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 275 707 filed on Oct. 18 2011 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 542 515 filed Oct. 3 2011 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and made a part hereof.

The management of a patent portfolio involves multiple stages. Initially a decision is made as to what inventions are worth the investment of filing a patent application. Then each filed patent application goes through prosecution with the patent office. Finally for each patent that is allowed maintenance fees must be paid at a variety of intervals to keep the patent in force.

The life cycle of a patent may include multiple stages. These stages generally include invention filing a patent application on the invention prosecuting the patenting application to allowance or abandonment determining whether to file any continuing applications and paying maintenance fees on the allowed patent.

At each stage one or more parties determine the best course of action to take with respect to the invention. For example when determining whether or not to file a patent the inventor may know what products are out in the technology area of the invention a business manager may know how the invention fits in with a company s goals and a patent attorney may have researched existing patents or application in the technology area of the patent. These parties will ultimately make the decision whether it is worth the initial investment of filing an application on the invention and then determine the next course of action at each future stage.

In some instances an inventor business manager or patent attorney may wish to monitor the patent activities of one or more competitors. The automatic provision of up to date information relating to changes or ongoing developments in the art to which a manager or competitor patent portfolio relates may be particularly helpful in devising patenting strategy or making informed business decisions.

In various embodiments a patent management system includes tools to help the parties involved in the patenting process make decisions at each stage in the life of a patent. These tools may also be used for general research by parties not immediately involved with the patenting of the invention. Additionally these tools may be used as standalone tools in combination with other tools and in combination with other patent management systems. Examples of tools include but are not limited to prosecution analytics reference management prior art analytics docketing management claim mapping claim analytics portfolio analytics external database e.g. PAIR analytics annuity management and strategic monitoring. The systems methods and tools of the present invention set forth in this specification are described in relation to a patent management system and patent matters but it will be understood that the present invention could equally be applied to other forms of intellectual property trademarks copyright registered designs and the like . Moreover the term patent is not intended to be limited to an issued patent but may include a pending patent application or un filed application or invention disclosure. The term user is intended to cover any person interacting with the patent management system. A user may be an inventor portfolio manager business manager or patent attorney for example.

Network may include local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN wireless networks e.g. 802.11 or cellular network the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN network ad hoc networks personal area networks e.g. Bluetooth or other combinations or permutations of network protocols and network types. The network may include a single local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or combinations of LAN s or WAN s such as the Internet. The various devices systems coupled to network may be coupled to network via one or more wired or wireless connections.

Web server may communicate with file server to publish or serve files stored on file server . Web server may also communicate or interface with the application server to enable web based applications and presentation of information. For example application server may consist of scripts applications or library files that provide primary or auxiliary functionality to web server e.g. multimedia file transfer or dynamic interface functions . Applications may include code which when executed by one or more processors run the tools of patent management system . In addition application server may also provide some or the entire interface for web server to communicate with one or more of the other servers in patent management system e.g. database management server .

Web server either alone or in conjunction with one or more other computers in patent management system may provide a user interface to user terminal for interacting with the tools of patent management system stored in application server . The user interface may be implemented using a variety of programming languages or programming methods such as HTML HyperText Markup Language VBScript Visual Basic Scripting Edition JavaScript XML Extensible Markup Language XSLT Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Java JFC Java Foundation Classes and Swing an Application Programming Interface for Java .

User terminal may be a personal computer or mobile device. In an embodiment user terminal includes a client program to interface with patent management system . The client program may include commercial software custom software open source software freeware shareware or other types of software packages. In an embodiment the client program includes a thin client designed to provide query and data manipulation tools for a user of user terminal . The client program may interact with a server program hosted by for example application server . Additionally the client program may interface with database management server .

Operations database may be composed of one or more logical or physical databases. For example operations database may be viewed as a system of databases that when viewed as a compilation represent an operations database. Sub databases in such a configuration may include a matter database a portfolio database a user database a mapping database and an analytics database. Operations database may be implemented as a relational database a centralized database a distributed database an object oriented database or a flat database in various embodiments.

In various embodiments the tools of the patent management system share a common framework. The framework may have a base organization unit of a matter. In various embodiments a matter is an issued patent or patent application that includes one or more patent claims. In an embodiment a matter is generally identified by its patent number or publication number. Identification may mean either identification as it relates to a user of the patent management system or within the patent management system. Thus a user may see a matter listed as its patent number while internally a database of the patent management system may identify it by a random number. One or more matters may be associated with prior art or cited references stored in a reference or prior art database.

One or more matters may be grouped together to form a portfolio. A matter may also be associated with one or more other matters in a family. A family member may be a priority matter a continuing e.g. continuation divisional matter or foreign counter part member. Family members may be determined according to a legal status database such as INPADOC.

Data stored in a first database may be associated with data in a second database through the use of common data fields. For example consider entries in the matter database formatted as Matter ID Patent Number and entries in the portfolio database formatted as Portfolio ID Matter ID . In this manner a portfolio entry in the portfolio database is associated with a matter in the matter database through the Matter ID data field. In various embodiments a matter may be associated with more than one portfolio by creating multiple entries in the portfolio database one for each portfolio that the matter is associated with. In other embodiments one or more patent reference documents may be associated with a patent by creating multiple entries in the patent database for example. The structure of the database and format and data field titles are for illustration purposes and other structures names or formats may be used. Additionally further associations between data stored in the databases may be created as discussed further herein.

During operation of patent management system data from multiple data sources internal and external is imported into or accessed by the operations database . Internal sources may include data from the various tools of the patent management system. External sources may include websites or databases associated with foreign and domestic patent offices assignment databases WIPO and INPADOC. In various embodiments the data is scraped and parsed from the websites if it is unavailable through a database. The data may be gathered using API calls to the sources when available. The data may be imported and stored in the operations database on a scheduled basis such as daily weekly monthly quarterly or some other regular or periodic interval. Alternatively the data may be imported on demand. The imported data may relate to any information pertaining to patents or patent applications such as serial numbers title cited art inventor or assignee details and the like.

After data importation the data may be standardized into a common format. For example database records from internal or external sources may not be in a compatible format with the operations database. Data conditioning may include data rearrangement normalization filtering e.g. removing duplicates sorting binning or other operations to transform the data into a common format e.g. using similar date formats and name formats .

In an example embodiment user database stores data representing users of patent management system . The data may include data fields of user credentials including a user ID and password and access rights with respect to patent management system . The user ID may be common across the tools of the patent management system. In this manner access rights of the user with respect to the tools of the patent management system may follow across the various tools of the patent management system. In an example embodiment different access rights are granted to a user ID between the various tools.

In various embodiments each user ID has access rights to one or more matters. Similarly a user ID may have portfolio level access rights. Access rights may be defined according to at least two parameters read access and write access. Thus when a user logs into patent management system the user is presented with access only to the matters portfolios that have been associated with the user ID. More e.g. additional contact information or fewer data fields associated with a user may be included in a user entry stored in user database .

In an embodiment matter database stores data representing matters. Each matter may be associated with one or more portfolios. In some embodiments a matter is associated with no portfolios. In various embodiments a matter is a foreign or domestic patent or application. Matters may also be inventions that have not yet been filed e.g. as may be the case within a docketing system . In an embodiment a matter entry includes data fields representing a matter ID patent number publication number serial number docketing number title e.g. the name of the patent or application type of the matter e.g. application issued patent PCT application status of the matter e.g. issued abandoned allowed a link to the patent office where the matter was filed a link to a PDF download of the matter abstract of the matter inventors of the matter current owner of the matter cited references on the face of the matter filed date issue date docket number and annuity information e.g. due date country and amount due . In some embodiments other patent reference documents or prior art in any form may be stored and associated with one or more matters. More or fewer data fields associated with a patent may be included in a matter entry stored in matter database . In an example embodiment matter database may store a patent matter database wherein this database includes data about the patent matters. The data may include for at least one patent matter a claim set or statement of invention and a priority date for the claim set or statement of invention. Matter database may also store a database of prior art documents also known as references wherein the prior art database includes data about the prior art documents. The data may include for at least one prior art document a priority date or publication date of the document. One or more of the prior art documents may be associated with a first patent matter in the patent matter database.

In various embodiments a matter is associated with one or more other matters as a family with a family ID. Family members may be priority documents continuation patents applications divisional patents applications and foreign patent application counterparts. In an embodiment family information is determined according to an external source such as INPADOC. Patent reference documents and or other prior art may be manually or automatically stored cross cited and associated with related family matters for example.

Portfolio database in an example embodiment stores data representing portfolios of one or more matters. Data stored in portfolio database may have been previously generated by a tool of patent management system . In various embodiments a portfolio may be generated by a user using patent management system . For example a user interface may be presented to the user requesting a name for the portfolio and identifiers of matters to be included in the portfolio. In an embodiment a portfolio entry in portfolio database includes the data fields of portfolio ID and portfolio name. Additionally a data field for matter ID may also be included in an entry in the portfolio database. Thus each portfolio may be associated with one or more matters through the use of the matter ID data field. More or fewer data fields associated with a portfolio may be included in a portfolio entry of portfolio database .

In various embodiments mapping database may include mappings of patent concepts to one or more matters. In an example embodiment the underlying patents and patent claims included in each patent portfolio may be categorized by patent concepts sometimes referred herein as concepts such as scope concepts SC and technology categories TC .

In an example embodiment technology categories are categories that claims relate to but are not necessarily limited to. For example a claim to a pulse generator may be put in the technology category pacemaker but not be limited to a pacemaker per se perhaps the claim merely says that the pulse generator generates a pulse of certain type that is useful for pacing but pacing does not appear in the claim. Hence the claim relates to the technology category pacemaker but it is not limited to being a pacemaker.

In an example embodiment scope concepts are concepts that a claim is limited to. This is contrast to technology categories where the claim may be mapped to a TC but it not necessarily limited to it. A scope concept may be defined in a way to give the concept a context that a user can understand without necessarily having to look at the corresponding claim language. For example if the scope concept is method or apparatus for cardiac rhythm management and it is mapped to claim A then claim A by definition is limited to this application such that if a target device does not perform cardiac rhythm management then it would not infringe claim A.

In an example embodiment there are two types of scope concepts 1 high level scope concepts that are like technical categories in the sense they are broad and general and apply to many claims in a portfolio and 2 scope concepts that are specific to a limited number of claims for example all claims in a patent may be limited to a very specific distinguishing feature and this feature could be the basis for a scope concept.

In some example embodiments high level scope concepts may be defined prior to mapping and then assigned as applicable. For example several scope concepts like atrial pacing ventricular pacing defibrillation method or device etc may be defined. Then a mapping team may go through all claims in a portfolio and map these scope concepts to claims that are limited to these concepts. After the mapping is complete an analysis may be done showing how many claims in the portfolio are limited to each of these scope concepts and the claims may be presented for each SC. This may be useful is disqualify claims that are not of interest to a particular target e.g. if an analysis is being done to find a claim that covers an alleged infringer .

In some example embodiments specific scope concepts are mapped patent by patent or by patent family. These may enable a person to create one or two scope concepts that can be mapped across all claims in given patent a family of patents or across a portion of a patent portfolio. In order to effectively formulate a scope concept that may be globally useful across a patent portfolio it may be useful to be able to examine multiple patent claims at the same time even if they are not all in the same patent or patent family. A keyword mapping may indicate that there is an exact match between the keyword and a subset of the claim language.

In various embodiments analytics database stores data representing calculated analytics on data stored within patent management system or external data sources. In various embodiments analytics are organized according to an individual matter a portfolio or family or date of an event such as an assignment recordal for example . Events may be organized by a date range for example all assignments occurring between Corporation A and Corporation B in the last 6 months or all filings made by inventor X in last 12 months . The calculated analytics may be based on information gathered from multiple sources such as databases of patent management system and PAIR.

In various embodiments information for an individual matter may include status e.g. disclosure received drafting filed completed waiting examination in prosecution allowed issued cited prior art list and type of rejections e.g. 35 U.S.C. 101 102 103 number of claims allowed office action count interviews held IDS statements filed attorney fees to date and PTO fees to date. Further metrics for an individual matter stored in analytics database may include time waiting for examiner total time in examination time waiting for PTO while in examination and time on appeal. Additional prosecution details may include an upcoming docket date e.g. due dates for office action IDS due dates etc. . A claim prosecution history chart may also be stored in analytics database for each matter. The prosecution history may include a history of claim amendments and arguments made in prosecution.

In various embodiments portfolio and family analytics information may be stored in analytics database based on aggregating the metrics for an individual matter. In an embodiment the analytics of a family may differ from those in a portfolio as not all family member matters may be part of a portfolio. Additionally the analytics may be stored for multiple time periods such that comparisons may be made between current metrics and metrics from a year ago or other time period .

Aggregated metrics may include a total patents and applications pending and waiting for examination in prosecution with no claims allowed in prosecution with some claims allowed appealed notice of allowance received and issued. These metrics may be compiled for both US and international matters in the portfolio. Additional information may include the international portfolio distribution by country. An age distribution of the portfolio may also be compiled. For example the portfolio may be broken down by less than one year old 1 to 3 years old 3 to 5 years old 5 to 10 years old 10 to 20 years old and 20 or more years old. Recent filing and issue activity as well as upcoming Ford filing deadlines may be stored in analytics database .

In various embodiments prosecution metrics across a portfolio or family are determined and stored in analytics database . This data may include matters waiting for examination matters in examination matters appealed and cases allowed but not yet issued. Analytics with respect office actions may also be compiled and stored. For example success of allowance after a first office action response a second response and so forth may be stored in analytics database . Additional prosecution analytics may include allowance rate e.g. 10 after a telephone interview allowance after an in person interview percentage of interviews with response number and type of rejection average time in prosecution e.g. in months average time to file a response and average time to next office action. Further the list of recently allowed cases recently appealed cases stalled cases and recently abandoned cases may also be stored for each portfolio and family in analytics database .

In various embodiments the results of keyword analysis on one or more matters and or prior art references may be stored in analytics database . The keyword analysis may be based on the occurrences of the keywords in the matter or references to derive a score or keyword overlap.

In various embodiments data stored in the database for a group of matters in a portfolio or family is analyzed to determine the top e.g. ten most cited patents the top most cited inventors top most cited prior art owners e.g. according to assignment documents or the face of the patent newly e.g. within the last 60 days cited prior art owners and top most cited prior art inventors. This information may be stored in analytics database .

In an embodiment display module is configured to display user interfaces and information retrieved from one or more databases . If a user is accessing patent management system remotely e.g. through a web browser display module may be configured to transmit data representing a user interface through a network to a user terminal. In various embodiments display module is configured to generate one or more charts of data stored in databases . For example display module may generate a pie chart of the top inventors within a portfolio.

In various embodiments input module receives data from multiple sources where it may be further processed by one or more other modules and stored in one or more of databases . In various embodiments input module or the patent management system may comprise a search engine not shown for conducting searches at a patent registry or on the Internet. For example input module may be configured to utilize one or more APIs to data from one or more patent data stores e.g. public PAIR private PAIR INPADOC foreign patent offices patent docketing systems portfolio management systems etc . The data may include published patent documents patent applications office actions or other patent office correspondence prior art references claim mappings dockets dates annuity payment data and patent or patent application assignment information. Specific assignment data may include details pertaining to the assignor or assignee e.g. name address nationality place of incorporation date of assignment details of the matter being assigned or any other data pertaining to assignments or change in ownership that may be recorded at any national or regional patent registry such as the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO World Intellectual Property Organization WIPO or European Patent Office EPO for example.

In various embodiments input module is configured to receive input from one or more user interface elements. For example patent management system may present multiple user interfaces to a user. These user interfaces may enable users to input data directly into databases instruct the patent management system to retrieve data from patent data stores and instruct the patent management system to perform various operations e.g. analysis on the data in databases .

Additionally input module may be configured to determine the selection of one or more user interface elements by a user and initiate the action associated with the selected user interface element. For example a user interface element may include a drop down menu to select a portfolio. Input module may be configured to receive the selection of the portfolio by the user. Then input module may pass the selection to one or more other modules for further processing. For example display module may update the drop down menu to indicate the selection of the portfolio. In other example embodiments a user may select an assignee name or technology field or date range of potential interest or a combination of these or other aspects of interest for which the user wishes to be informed of recent or ongoing assignment or change in ownership status. The user may request to be informed regularly daily weekly or monthly for example of ongoing assignments or changes in ownership by making a selection of the appropriate interface elements.

In various embodiments input module processes the data that has been inputted and formats it according to the data fields of databases as discussed above. In various embodiments processing is completed using a parsing module not shown . For example consider a patent publication that a user has directed to be inputted into one or more of the databases. The parsing module may use a combination of automatic image recognition and text analysis to determine the filing date issue date title abstract and claims of the patent. In some embodiments the parsing module may flag certain pieces of data that had been determined to be potentially inaccurate e.g. a number could not be read . A user of patent management system may then examine the flagged data and manually enter the information which is then stored in the appropriate database.

The resulting data that has been parsed by the parsing module may then be entered as an entry in one or more of databases . This may be accomplished by for example formulating an insert SQL query with the parsed information. In various embodiments the parsing module may parse multiple pieces of information before generating a database entry. For example input module may receive a docket number for an issued patent. The docket number may be combined with the information parsed from the issued patent to form an entry in matter database .

In various embodiments mapping module is configured to facilitate mappings of scope concept technology categories and keywords to patent claims of a matter. In an embodiment mapping signifies association. For example in conjunction with display module and input module mapping module may present a user interface of patent claims stored in matter database and scope concepts stored in mapping database . Input module may receive a selection of one or more patent claims and one or more scope concepts and pass them to mapping module . Mapping module may then formulate an SQL query to associate the one or more patents claims with the one or more scope concepts. When executed the SQL query may update the mapping database with the associations. In various embodiments mapping module also allows the creation of new scope concepts technology categories and keywords that may be mapped to one or more patent claims. Furthermore mapping module may present user interfaces that allow a user to rank and rate matters stored in matter database .

Mapping module may also allow the generation of claim charts of a plurality of cells. A claim chart may include one or more scope concepts technology categories and keywords on one axis and claims of matters in a portfolio on the other axis. The claim chart may include a variety of levels of granularity of scope concepts. Some claims may be mapped to all of the scope concepts while others may not be mapped to any scope concepts. At the cell intersection between a scope concept or technology category or keyword and a claim an indication of the mapping may be presented by changing the format of the cell. For example the cell may be colored blue when a scope concept is mapped and red when not mapped.

In various embodiments analytics module is configured to examine and run calculations on the data stored in the databases to generate the analytics previously discussed. For example analytics module may formulate an SQL query that retrieves the number of times that a prior art reference has been cited within a portfolio. This query may be run for each prior art cited within the portfolio to determine a list of the most cited e.g. the top ten prior art references with a portfolio. In an embodiment the queries are formulated and run as requested by a user. In an embodiment once the analytics information has been determined it is stored within analytics database . In various embodiments queries are formulated and run on a periodic basis e.g. nightly and entries in analytics database may be updated to reflect any changes. In other embodiments the analytics module may in response to user input formulate a query to examine how many times a given patent matter has been assigned or been subject to a change in ownership from one party to another. Other queries analyzing patent assignment data may be run as requested by a user.

In various embodiments the analytics module is configured to receive input identifying a pool of keywords for a first patent matter in matter database and associated prior art documents in matter database . The term keyword is intended to include individual keywords as well as a number of keywords grouped together making up a key phrase for example. The module may be further configured to perform a keyword analysis on the first patent matter and associated prior art documents based on occurrences of the keywords in the first patent matter and associated prior art documents. The analytics module may be further configured to identify based on the analysis keywords occurring uniquely in the first patent matter. In view of their uniquely occurring nature these keywords may be regarded as claim elements potentially differentiating the claim set or statement of invention over the disclosures contained in the one or more prior art documents.

In various embodiments the analytics module is configured to generate for a user the patent activity profiles of one or more entities. The entities may be competitive entities to the user or the user s employer or client. The generated activity profiles may form part of information to assist in strategic monitoring of patent portfolios. A patent activity profile may be built for a particular patent applicant or owner or a type of owner and then deviances from that profile may be flagged. The profile may include foreign filing patterns US filing patterns for example does the owner typically file a provisional application first followed by a PCT application or is a US application typically filed thereafter The profile may include information about abandonments for example what subject matter does an owner give up on or surrender during prosecution or in making abandonment decisions In various embodiments the profile may include information about instances or circumstances in which an owner does not pay a patent annuity or renewal fee. The profile may include any of the data stored in analytics database referred to above. Analytics module may be configured to flag deviances from a profile and send update alerts sent to a user accordingly. For example in conjunction with display module and input module analytics module may present to a user an interface indicating one or more patent activity profiles for one or more patent owners for the user to select and look at.

The tracking module according to an example embodiment maintains information related to a specific patent group of patents or concept. For example the tracking module may store information related to a patent s prosecution and litigation history such as office actions or claim amendments . In other example embodiments the tracking module may store information relating to the assignment of patent applications or patents from one assignee to another or from an inventor to employer assignee for example. Information of this nature may be stored by tracking module for defined sets of applications or patents registered in a specified name and within certain date ranges for example. Update alerts e.g. electronic mail SMS or similar may be sent to a user indicating a change in ownership for a patent or patent application.

In various embodiments the filtering module is configured to filter a set of matters according to a user preference. For example a user may activate a check box that indicates only pending matters should be shown in a user interface. Filtering module may formulate an assignment query consistent with retrieving only pending matters. The results of the query or any query may then be shared with display module where the user interface may be updated. The regular alerts may in other example embodiments be pushed to a user terminal an external website an intranet site a PDA smart phone or other similar handheld device.

In various embodiments a patent management system may be provided for automatically monitoring developments in a field of prior art. The system may comprise a database for maintaining an ontology of patent concepts of the type described above and an input module for receiving a search query including a first patent concept related to the field of prior art to be monitored. In an example embodiment a search engine not shown may be provided and configured to search the Internet as a function of the search query and generate a first set of search results. The search engine may be further configured to run a second search as a function of the same search query on a subsequent occasion to generate a second set of search results. The analytics module may be configured to compare the first and second sets of search results to identify differences in the results and the display module may be configured to communicate the differences in the search results to a user.

The system may further comprising a patent matter database e.g. matter database wherein the database includes data about the patent matters and the data including a claim set for at least one patent matter and wherein the first patent concept relates to at least one feature of the claim set. In one example embodiment the input module may be further configured to receive the search query including the first patent concept from a user who may select at least one patent concept from the stored ontology or provide a new patent concept. In another example embodiment the mapping module may be configured to automatically provide the search query including the first patent concept to the input module and may be further configured to automatically select at least one patent concept from the stored ontology. The first patent concept may include at least one keyword for example at least one keyword present in the claim set. In an example embodiment the first patent concept may include at least one scope concept for example at least one scope concept present in the claim set.

The In various embodiments the search engine and modules and may be further configured to perform the searches compare the results and communicate the differences in the first and second search results automatically to a user on a predetermined regular basis thereby to notify the user of any intervening changes in the field of prior art.

In various embodiments the system may at least partly be hosted on an interactive website such that the search query can be received from the user and the search results can be communicated to the user via one or more web pages hosted on the website. The system may further comprise a web based search engine for searching the Internet. In an example embodiment the display module may be configured to communicate the differences in the search results to the user in a handheld or mobile device.

In various embodiments a patent management system may be provided comprising a network a database accessible on the network and including data relating to a field of prior art and a server operatively connected to the network wherein the server includes a processor a memory software operable on the processor to maintain an ontology of patent concepts receive a search query including a first patent concept related to the field of prior art search the database as a function of the search query generate a first set of search results store the first set of search results in a database conduct a subsequent search of the database as a function of the search query generate a second set of search results compare the first and second sets of search results to identify differences in the results and communicate the differences to a user.

Some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter include methods for monitoring developments in a field of prior art in a patent management system . One such embodiment is illustrated in . In some embodiments a computer implemented method of reviewing prior art may comprise using one or more processors to perform at least a portion of one or more of the following identifying at least a first patent concept related to an area of technology in the prior art receiving a search query including the first patent concept searching the Internet as a function of the search query generating a first set of search results storing the first set of search results in a database conducting a subsequent search on the Internet as a function of the search query generating a second set of search results comparing the first and second sets of search results to identify differences in the results and communicating the differences in the results to a user .

The method may include filtering the search results in accordance with one or more of the fields of enquiry using a hardware implemented filtering module. The filtered search results may be formatted for display to the user by a hardware implemented display module and in further example embodiments may be displayed to a user in a user interface provided in a handheld or mobile device. In various embodiments the search results may be automatically retrieved from the patent registry by a hardware implemented input module and stored in a hardware implemented tracking module.

In various embodiments the method may further comprise maintaining a patent matter database wherein the database includes data about the patent matters the data including a claim set for at least one patent matter and wherein the first patent concept relates to at least one feature of the claim set. The search query including the first patent concept may be provided by a user. In an example embodiment the method may comprise providing a hardware implemented mapping module and configuring the mapping module to automatically provide the search query. The mapping module may be further configured to automatically push the search query to an internet search engine for searching the Internet. The search engine may be a GOOGLE search engine.

The first patent concept may include at least one keyword for example at least one keyword present in the claim set. The first patent concept may include at least one scope concept for example at least one scope concept present in the claim set. In various embodiments the method may include performing the search and communicating the differences in the search results to a user automatically on a predetermined regular basis thereby notifying the user of any intervening changes in the field of prior art.

In an example embodiment the method may further comprise hosting an interactive website and receiving the search query from the user and communicating the differences in the search results to the user via the website. The method may further comprise providing a web based search engine for searching the Internet. In an example embodiment the method may include communicating the differences in the search results to the user in a handheld or mobile device.

Reference is now made to which shows a user interface that may be used to facilitate the methods of the present inventive subject matter according to example embodiments. The user interface may be displayed by display module described above. The user interface may be provided in a website computer monitor or mobile device. The type of user elements names and layout depicted in are intended to be an illustration of an example user interface of patent management system . Other types of user elements names and layouts may be used.

User interface is illustrated with multiple user interface elements. In an example embodiment a user interface element is a graphical or textual element that a user may interact with to cause an application to perform an assigned action for the interface element. Data representing user interface may be transmitted via network and presented on a display of user terminal through the use of a web browser. A user e.g. manager of a patent portfolio etc may interact with the user interface elements of user interface through the use of an input device e.g. stylus cursor mouse a finger of the user terminal. In an embodiment a user selection is based on the coordinates of the input device as it makes contact with the display or where a user clicks the mouse. The coordinates are compared to the coordinates of the user input element to determine the selection. The type of user elements names and layout depicted in are intended to be an illustration of an example user interface of patent management system . Other types of user elements names and layouts may be used. Some elements may be omitted in various embodiments depending on the nature of management tool provided.

In general the user interface elements may include my matters patent watches and company watches . These elements may be used to select a context view of the patent management system. For example my matters lists the patents included within a portfolio of a user patent watches lists information on patents that the user has indicated the patent management system is to watch and company watches lists information on companies that the user has indicated the system should watch.

In various embodiments for a prior art monitoring system or technology tracker tool user interface elements may allow a user to input details of or select from a drop down list entries such as the name of a patentee or owner technology class a date range a type of owner corporation LLC or other entity for example or date of incorporation of such owner . In various embodiments a user interface element may allow a user to select a scope concept for review or a keyword by using element . The scope concepts or keywords may be stored in an ontology of patent concepts maintained in a database or may be inserted in the user elements and as free entry. In various embodiments the scope concepts are fed into Google or otherwise used to search the Internet to generate a list of search results. Differences in the search results from one day to the next or one week to the next may be displayed as new results in window . The search results may be filtered as desired using element . In various embodiments linguistic analysis can be used to find matches.

The searches may be completed to retrieve full content from the Internet or may be executed only to look for the number of hits appearing against specific competitors for example a patentee entered in element . New search results may be shown each day or periodically. This time period may be entered by a user by making a selection in element . The same process can be done as above but instead of using scope concept keywords may be taken from a given claim and the keywords used instead. The keywords from claims can either be non routine words or can be determined by looking to see which keywords are unique compared to cited prior art. A keyword analysis of the type described further above may have been prior completed. The system at least seeks to provide search results from the web for informational purposes. Other user interface elements corresponding to one or more of the other fields of enquiry of the type described herein may be provided. Each user interface element may allow input of a free text search query or provide drop down menus and date calendars where appropriate to allow a user to select one or more criteria relating to the change in ownership of tracked patents of interest. In example embodiments a user may request to be notified of changes in ownership or assignments on an ongoing basis such as daily weekly or monthly periodic intervals by making an appropriate selection in user element . The results of searches performed by the tool may be displayed in window from which a sub selection of results may be further filtered using element .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA or an ASIC.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

