---

title: Plasmon-assisted optical vias for photonic ASICS
abstract: The present invention relates to optical vias to optically connect multilevel optical circuits. In one example, the optical via includes a surface plasmon polariton waveguide, and a first optical waveguide formed on a first substrate is coupled to a second optical waveguide formed on a second substrate by the surface plasmon polariton waveguide. In some embodiments, the first optical waveguide includes a transition region configured to convert light from an optical mode to a surface plasmon polariton mode or from a surface plasmon polariton mode to an optical mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09599781&OS=09599781&RS=09599781
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09599781
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150908
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 049 033 filed Sep. 11 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to plasmon assisted optical vias for photonic application specific integrated circuits ASICS .

Photonic integrated circuits PICs are a type of optoelectronic integrated circuit and can include a plurality of optoelectronic devices that are optically interconnected using a plurality of physical structures for guiding electromagnetic waves in the optical spectrum also referred to as optical waveguides. Over the past decade there have been attempts to integrate optics with electronics on the microscopic scale. Many areas of technology particularly communications related technology stand to benefit from such integration. While electrical pulses navigate the tight turns and bends of electronic circuits optical pulses are unable to navigate these tight turns without unacceptable loss. As such the achievable complexity for PICs is not nearly as high as for electronic integrated circuits. Thus while the feature sizes for electronic circuits continue to shrink conventional PIC sizing has plateaued.

This disclosure describes among others devices and techniques for constructing a multilayer optical circuit using plasmonic waveguide and optical vias for connecting optical waveguide circuit layers. Forming such a multilayer optical circuit presents a unique value opportunity for high channel density communication as well as for processing monitoring manipulating and or de encrypting vast amounts of data at line rate. Such circuits can also improve PIC fabrication and prototyping lower costs and enable more complex functionality of the PICs. For example this approach can enable programming the PICs using optical interconnects that reside on a second level on the base chip. In other words this arrangement of optoelectronic components can be optically wired together in different configurations thus enabling a plurality of circuit functionality using the same base chip. This versatility can support high confidence rapid prototyping and multi user wafer runs resulting in a lower cost barrier to PICs.

In one aspect the device includes a first optical waveguide formed on a first substrate and a second optical waveguide formed on a second substrate and coupled to the first optical waveguide by a surface plasmon polariton SPP waveguide where the first optical waveguide includes a transition region configured to convert light from an optical mode to a SPP mode or from a SPP mode to an optical mode.

In another aspect the device includes a compact multilevel optical circuit comprising a first substrate including one or more optical waveguides and one or more active optical elements a second substrate including one or more optical waveguides and one or more couplers between at least one of the one or more optical waveguides in the first substrate and at least one of the one or more optical waveguides in the second substrate. In some embodiments the one or more couplers include a transition region configured to convert a light from an optical mode to a SPP mode and a transition region configured to convert a light from a SPP mode to an optical mode. In other embodiments one or more couplers optically connect at least one of the one or more optical waveguides in the first substrate with at least one of the one or more optical waveguides in the second substrate. Exemplary couplers include a photon to plasmon coupler a plasmon to photon coupler or a photon to plasmon to photon coupler.

In a further aspect the method includes coupling a first optical waveguide in a first substrate and a second optical waveguide in a second substrate with a SPP waveguide propagating a light wave in an optical mode along the first optical waveguide converting the optical mode to a plasmon mode propagating the plasmon mode along the SPP waveguide converting the plasmon mode to an optical mode and propagating the optical mode along the second optical waveguide. Additional plasmon modes SPP waveguides and optical waveguides may be employed in this method.

For any embodiment herein the aspect can include corresponding computer systems apparatus and computer programs recorded on one or more computer storage devices each configured to perform any recited actions e.g. a configured action of the component or an action recited in any method herein .

Embodiments of the disclosed methods systems and devices may include one or more of the following features. In one embodiment the first substrate is arranged over the second substrate. In one embodiment the second substrate is arranged over the first substrate. In another embodiment a dielectric substrate separates the first substrate from the second substrate. In yet another embodiment a dielectric portion is located on or within the second layer. In some embodiments the first and second substrates or layers are generally planar. In other embodiments the generally planar substrates or layers are vertically stacked and one or more SPP waveguides are vertically disposed within the stack.

In some embodiments the SPP waveguide extends through a dielectric substrate and or the second layer. In other embodiments the SPP waveguide is configured to propagate the SPP mode vertically e.g. between two or more layers or substrates .

In some embodiments the first optical waveguide is a semiconductor waveguide. In other embodiments the second optical waveguide is a polymer waveguide.

In some embodiments the coupling loss is less than about 10 percent and the propagation loss is less that about 1 dB in polarization contrast.

In some embodiments the optically connected optical waveguides in the first substrate and the second substrate are configured to guide an input of continuous light to one or more of the active optical elements.

The term optical via includes at least one interconnect between one or more adjacent layers of a multilayer device e.g. a photonic integrated circuit such that the at least one interconnect forms an optical connection or conduit between the one or more adjacent layers.

The term optical element also denoted a photonic element means any element formed in order to produce an effect upon an optical signal or signals.

The term optical illumination refers to any illumination with electromagnetic radiation e.g. ultraviolet visible near infrared etc. it is not limited to illumination with visible electromagnetic radiation.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention suitable methods and materials are described below. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control. In addition the materials methods and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description and from the claims.

In a conventional PIC the planar nature and inherent limitations of the optical interconnects between vertical layers prevents a compact and complex PIC arrangement. In contrast integrated circuits have thrived at least in part due to vertically stacked electrical interconnects that enable compact and complex circuits. In general this disclosure discusses examples of PICs including at least one connection between one or more vertically disposed layers.

Referring to the photonic integrated circuit includes a semiconductor substrate including a plurality of active optical elements formed thereon including e.g. a tunable laser array an electro absorption modulator array a phase modulator array a high speed photodiode array an optical amplifier array a waveguide photodetector array or any combination thereof. The semiconductor substrate can include an indium phosphide InP substrate. One or more of the active optical elements can be formed from one or more semiconductor layers and integrated with the semiconductor substrate . For example one or more active optical elements can be epitaxially grown on the InP substrate. A plurality of passive optical waveguides can also be provided on the substrate and formed from the plurality of compound semiconductor layers e.g. III V layers .

The active optical elements integrated on the semiconductor substrate can be connected optically to one or more optical waveguides e.g. semiconductor based optical waveguides thereby forming an optical waveguide layer. Accordingly the first layer or substrate can include one or more active optical elements one or more optical waveguides e.g. optically connected to one or more active optical elements such as e.g. by use of an optical waveguide in and or one or more couplers e.g. located in proximity to an end of one or more optical waveguides . Exemplary couplers are described herein.

In some cases the semiconductor substrate can include one or more semiconductor layers including a material selected from InP indium gallium arsenide phosphide InGaAsP indium gallium arsenide InGaAs indium aluminum gallium arsenide InAlGaAs gallium arsenide GaAs aluminum gallium arsenide AlGaAs and combinations thereof including doped forms thereof e.g. including one or more n type or p type dopants .

The tunable laser array can be formed on the semiconductor substrate and can be configured to generate light e.g. a pulse beam or continuous light at a large number of possible output wavelengths. The light can have a wavelength in the range of 0.8 2.0 microns m . While the tunable laser array is generally shown on the semiconductor substrate the tunable laser array can be formed separately from the semiconductor substrate and optically coupled e.g. by an optical fiber or by a space coupler to the substrate.

The amplifier array can be formed on the semiconductor substrate and include one or more optical amplifiers to amplify one or more optical input signals e.g. signals generated by the tunable laser array or modulated or propagated by any other optical element . For example such amplification can provide signal gain to compensate for the input and output optical coupling losses as well as the optical to electrical and electrical to optical conversion efficiencies. This is useful to provide an increased optical power e.g. up to a few tens of milliWatts for the amplified optical inputs to for example provide larger photocurrent signals from a photodetector array . In other cases the amplifier array additionally or alternatively amplifies one or more digital optical inputs or outputs.

The photodetector array includes one or more photodetectors to detect the incoming light wave having a first wavelength and to produce an electrical signal. In some embodiments the electrical signal in turn modulates the outgoing light wave having a second desired wavelength.

The electro absorption modulator array can include a plurality of electro absorption modulators e.g. traveling wave electro absorption modulators formed on the semiconductor substrate to receive optical input for example an optical input sampling signal and or an optical analog input signal. The electro absorption modulator array operates based on the electroabsorption effect which is defined as the change of material absorption in the presence of an electric field. In some cases the electro absorption modulator array can include a waveguide with electrodes for applying an electric field in a direction perpendicular to the modulated light beam.

The high speed photodiode array is formed e.g. monolithically integrated on the semiconductor substrate and includes one or more photodiodes for converting the one or more optical input signals to one or more electrical output signals. One or more photodiodes within the photodiode array can be configured to receive an optical analog input signal or an optical sample of this optical analog input signal and convert the optical analog input signal to one or more electrical input signals or electrical sample s of the optical sample . In some embodiments the electrical input signal can be used to modulate an optical input signal e.g. a delayed optical input signal such as from an optical sampler thereby producing a modulated optical input signal. In other embodiments the electrical input signal or modulated form thereof can be digitized e.g. by relaying the electrical input signal or modified signal to an analog to digital converter ADC to provide one or more digital signals.

The photodiode can be employed in any useful manner. In one embodiment an optical modulator includes one or more photodiodes to provide an electrical output signal which in turn can be used to modulate an optical signal. In some embodiments an optical analog input signal is split into a plurality of parallel optical input signals e.g. by configuring an optical analog input signal source to be connected optically to an optical splitter and each parallel optical input signal is sampled with an optical sampling signal e.g. a delayed optical sampling signal to provide a plurality of successive optical samples of the optical analog input signal. Each optical sample can in turn be digitized to provide an analog electrical signal or a pair of analog electrical signals.

Optical samples can be produced in any useful manner. For instance optical samples can be formed by modulating each parallel optical input signal with an optical sampling signal as an input. In one embodiment the optical modulator is configured to receive an optical sampling signal as an optical input signal and to receive a converted parallel optical input signal as an electrical input signal e.g. where the converted parallel optical input signal is an electrical signal that is obtained by employing a parallel optical input signal as an optical input signal for a photodiode . In another embodiment the optical modulator is configured to receive a parallel optical input signal as an optical input signal and to receive a converted optical sampling signal as an electrical input signal e.g. where the converted optical sampling signal is an electrical signal that is obtained by employing a optical sampling signal as an optical input signal for a photodiode .

The phase modulator array can be formed on the semiconductor substrate and include one or more modulators to control and or detect the phase of the received signals. In some cases the phase modulator array can include a plurality of phase modulators formed on the semiconductor substrate to control the phase of received signals.

These active optical elements of the base substrate or first layer can be connected in any useful manner. In particular embodiments such connections are formed by connecting vertically configured optical vias and horizontally configured optical waveguides. In one embodiment the optical via includes a SPP waveguide. In another embodiment the optical via includes a SPP waveguide e.g. including a conductive metal and a dielectric such as any herein a photon to plasmon coupler e.g. a photon to plasmon transition region disposed in proximity to a first optical waveguide and connected to the SPP waveguide and a plasmon to photon coupler e.g. a plasmon to photon transition region disposed in proximity to a second optical waveguide and connected to the SPP waveguide . In yet another embodiment the SPP waveguide is generally configured to be located vertically between two or more layers and the photon to plasmon and plasmon to photon couplers are generally configured to be parallel to the optical waveguide to which it is connected.

Of course the device can include more than two layers e.g. n layers where n is an integer of 2 or more. In some embodiments the device includes n layers that are vertically stacked and one or more optical vias are disposed between each nand n 1layers. Each layer can be formed from any useful material such as any semiconductor or polymer materials herein.

Referring to the optical waveguide can be an effective guide for planar photon propagation e.g. within the x y plane or in a horizontal manner but can experience photon scattering at vertical waveguide junctures. Meanwhile the SPP waveguide is well suited to abrupt splits and bends but does not effectively propagate beyond short distances e.g. less than 100 microns 90 microns 80 microns 70 microns 60 microns 50 microns 40 microns 30 microns or 10 microns. Here the coupler advantageously combines the optical waveguide and surface polariton waveguide to achieve planar and vertical photon propagation.

The first photon to plasmon to photon coupler or via includes an optical waveguide transitioning to a photon to plasmon transition region before connecting to a polymer based optical waveguide through a SPP waveguide . For planar propagation the optical waveguide is used along each layer while the SPP waveguide is used for vertical photon propagation between the vertical layers.

The optical waveguide in for example the substrate layer is connected to the photon to plasmon transition region . The photon to plasmon transition region can have a tapered or triangular shape. The photon to plasmon transition region can also include a material compatible with plasmonic excitation for example a metal film formed on a dielectric. The metal film can be selected from silver platinum gold or alloys thereof. The photon to plasmon transition region concentrates and creates a phase shift from optical signals guided by the optical waveguides to an electromagnetic wave that can propagate vertically along the SPP waveguide e.g. a transverse electromagnetic mode e.g. a long range symmetric ssmode such as described in Berini P Integrated optics based on long range surface plasmon polaritons Chapter 15 in Surface Plasmon Nanophotonics eds. M L Brongersma and P G Kik 2007 Springer Dordrecht the Netherlands pp. 217 33 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The coupler or optical via can have any useful geometry. For instance the first photon to plasmon to photon coupler includes a SPP waveguide in which the optical mode continues to travel in the same direction. In contrast the second photon to plasmon coupler includes a SPP waveguide in which the optical mode continues to travel in the one direction and then must travel back in the direction from which it came. As shown in the second photon to plasmon to photon coupler includes an optical waveguide transitioning to a photon to plasmon transition region before connecting to a polymer based optical waveguide through a SPP waveguide . For planar propagation the optical waveguide is used along each layer while the SPP waveguide is used for vertical photon propagation between the vertical layers.

In some instances the SPP waveguide is connected to a plasmon to photon transition region e.g. which is located on or in proximity to a second optical waveguide . The plasmon to photon transition region can have an expanded or trapezoidal shape. The plasmon to photon region can also include a material compatible with plasmonic excitation for example a metal film formed on a dielectric. The metal film can be selected from silver platinum gold or alloys thereof. The plasmon to photon transition region converts the electromagnetic wave back into an optical signal which is then transmitted to the second optical waveguide .

The vertical SPP mode propagation as described above enables the photon to plasmon to photon coupler to have a compact micron scale size as well as low coupling and propagation loss. In some cases the coupler has an insertion loss of less than about 0.5 dB per transition and a footprint of 10 m 10 m or smaller. The coupler also can have more than about 40 nm 3 dB spectral bandwidth less than about 10 coupling into random phase and less than about 1 dB loss in polarization contrast.

The fabrication techniques for PIC are typically similar to the fabrication techniques used in ICs. In the fabrication process the PIC devices that can be mounted on a PIC chip include but are not limited to the above mentioned passive active and electro optic devices with applications ranging from the field of fiber optic communication computing sensing to biomedical.

Referring back to an arrangement of optoelectronic components can be interconnected to enable different functions for example a wavelength converter array or an optical sampler . The first base level can include one or more active optical elements such as any herein. The second level can be an electrical or optical level where this second level is disposed above the first base level. Optical communication between the first and second levels is realized by the use of one or more optical vias of an appropriate geometry e.g. a geometry in . When the second level is an electrical level then an electrically insulating interlayer e.g. a dielectric interlayer may be disposed between the first and second levels. When the second level is an optical level then an optically insulating interlayer e.g. a dielectric interlayer such as SiO may be disposed between the first and second levels.

In one instance the optical multilayer circuit can be configured as a wavelength converter array. For example shows the semiconductor substrate is connected to a second optical and or electrical level using one or more plasmon assisted optical vias . A close up of optical via is provided in . The second optical and or electrical level can include various optical and electrical elements for example a radiofrequency transmission line and a polymer based optical waveguide are implemented and active optical elements as described above are optically coupled or wired to enable communication between the two layers. The wavelength converter array can also include the dielectric interlayer to separate the second layer e.g. the polymer based optical waveguides from the semiconductor substrate . As described above the first layer and the second layer are connected by the SPP waveguide that traverses vertically through the dielectric interlayer to connect for example the two optical waveguides .

In another instance the optical multilayer circuit can be configured as an optical sampler e.g. a parallel optical sampler optionally connected to an electrical analog to digital converter. For example shows the semiconductor substrate is connected to a second optical level using one or more plasmon assisted optical vias . A close up of optical via is provided in . The second optical level can include optical elements e.g. passive optical elements disposed in a dielectric layer for example optical splitters and a polymer based optical waveguide are implemented and active optical elements as described above are optically coupled or wired to enable communication between the two layers. As described above the first layer and the second layer are connected by the SPP waveguide that traverses vertically through the dielectric layer to connect for example the two optical waveguides .

The first and second layers can be connected optically in any useful manner. For instance as shown in the first layer and second layer are connected optically by an optical via . The first layer includes a first optical waveguide disposed on the substrate . A photon to plasmon transition region is located at one end of the first optical waveguide . The second layer includes a dielectric portion and a second optical waveguide . As can be seen the SPP waveguide is vertically configured. The optical via includes at least the SPP waveguide . In some embodiments the via also includes the photon to plasmon transition region and the plasmon to photon transition region e.g. as described herein located in proximity to the second optical waveguide .

In another instance numerous vias connect the first and second layers. For instance as shown in the first layer includes a first optical waveguides disposed on the substrate . Photon to plasmon transition regions are located at one end of the first optical waveguides . The second layer includes a dielectric portion and second optical waveguides . Here the second layer also includes a passive optical element that is optically connected to the second optical waveguides . In some embodiments the optical via includes an SPP waveguide a photon to plasmon transition region and a plasmon to photon transition region e.g. as described herein located in proximity to the second optical waveguide .

In this multilayered circuit of two SPP waveguides are vertically configured. In this way an optical signal is transmitted from the first layer to the second layer the transmitted signal is optically modified by one or more elements in the second layer and then the transmitted optically modified signal is relayed back to the first layer e.g. to any active element in the first layer . Optionally the transmitted optically modified signal is maintained in the second layer and relayed to another optical element in the second layer. A skilled artisan would understand that other optical connections as well as other configurations of optical vias and other optical elements can be formed between different components in separated layers and or between different components in the same layer to effect the desired optical circuit or photonic application specific integrated circuit.

Simulations can be conducted to understand coupling at the nanoscale by employing the plasmon assisted optical vias described herein. For instance shows snapshots from a simulation conducted using the structure provided in . As can be seen the initial optical signal travels through the first optical waveguide approaches the photon to plasmon transition region travels through the SPP waveguide approaches the plasmon to photon transition region and enters the second optical waveguide . Under these conditions the insertion loss was about 4 dB.

Any useful optical element can be employed. Exemplary optical elements e.g. active or passive optical elements include one or more optical splitters optical combiners optical delay elements optical modulators e.g. a photodiode an electro absorption modulator a Mach Zehnder modulator or a photodiode interconnected Mach Zehnder modulator waveguides amplifiers e.g. semiconductor optical amplifiers SOAs mirrors reflectors optical filters lasers e.g. tunable lasers multimode interference couplers optical oscillators optical gratings multiplexers demultiplexers optical switches as well as any optical element and parallel optical sampler circuit component described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 270 532 5 333 000 5 463 649 5 627 929 5 745 630 6 229 947 6 365 428 7 106 448 7 187 815 7 336 855 7 564 387 7 787 719 7 995 877 8 014 639 8 363 990 8 582 931 8 687 665 8 725 004 and 8 730 562 as well as Briggs R M et al. Efficient coupling between dielectric loaded plasmonic and silicon photonic waveguides. 2010 10 4851 7 Choo H et al. Nanofocusing in a metal insulator metal gap plasmon waveguide with a three dimensional linear taper 2012 December 6 838 44 Kish F A et al. Current status of large scale InP photonic integrated circuits 2011 November December 17 6 1470 89 Luo Y et al. Compact on chip plasmonic light concentration based on a hybrid photonic plasmonic structure 2013 January 21 2 1898 910 Raburn M et al. 3 D photonic circuit technology 2002 July August 8 4 935 42 Skogen E J et al. Optical AND and NOT gates at 40 Gbps using electro absorption modulator photodiode pairs 23. held on 7 11 Nov. 2010 in Denver Colo. pp. 52 3 Skogen E J et al. Optical logic gates using interconnected photodiodes and electro absorption modulators . held on 25 28 Jul. 2010 in Monterey Calif. 3 pp. Tauke Pedretti A et al. Cascaded double ring resonator filter with integrated SOAs . . held on 6 10 Mar. 2011 in Los Angeles Calif. 3 pp. and Xia F et al. Photonic integration using asymmetric twin waveguide ATG technology Part I concepts and theory 2005 January February 11 1 17 29 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The substrate optical elements and SPP waveguides can be formed from any useful material by employing any useful process. Exemplary materials include a dielectric e.g. SiO SiN SiN SiON or a polymer a conductive metal e.g. Cu Ag Al W Ti Pt Au Ge Ni as well as alloys or combinations thereof a polymer e.g. poly methyl methacrylate PMMA polystyrene PS polycarbonate PC polyurethane PU epoxy resin bis benzocyclobutene BCB polyacrylates fluorinated polyimides perfluorocyclobutyl aryl ethers perfluorovinyl ether cyclopolymer tetrafluoroethylene and perfluorovinyl ether copolymers silicone fluorinated poly arylene ether sulfide and other fluorinated or perfluorinated polymers an n type material e.g. those having n type dopants such as silicon sulfur selenium tellurium or germanium for III V materials including InP Si a p type material e.g. those having p type dopants such as zinc magnesium cadmium silicon or germanium for III V materials including InGaAs a Ill V material e.g. InP InGaAs InGaAsP InAlGaAs InGaN GaN GaAs and AlGaAs a cladding material e.g. InGaAsP Si 1.3Q Si InGaAsP Zn InP InGaAsP a 1.3Q material or a 1.4Q material etc. as well as graded or layered forms of any of these. Additional materials are described in Ma H et al. Polymer based optical waveguides Materials processing and devices 2002 October 14 19 1339 65 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Exemplary processes include epitaxial growth chemical vapor diffusion CVD such as metal organic CVD MOCVD metal organic vapor phase epitaxy MOVPE and molecular beam epitaxy MBE milling e.g. focused ion beam milling rapid prototyping microfabrication e.g. by casting injection molding compression molding embossing ablation thin film deposition and or Computer Numerically Controlled CNC micromachining photolithography etching techniques e.g. wet chemical etching reactive ion etching inductively coupled plasma deep silicon etching laser ablation or air abrasion techniques and quantum well intermixing QWI processes such as those described in Skogen E J et al. A quantum well intermixing process for wavelength agile photonic integrated circuits 2002 July August 8 4 863 9 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Waveguides can have any useful configuration such as ridge waveguides coaxial waveguides rectangular waveguides slab waveguides planar waveguides channel waveguides etc. In some embodiments the second layer or substrate includes one or more optical waveguides formed from a polymer. In other embodiments the first layer or substrate includes one or more optical waveguides formed from a semiconductor material e.g. a III V material such as InP . In yet other embodiments active optical elements are disposed in the first layer or substrate and passive optical elements are disposed in the second layer or substrate.

The SPP waveguide can have any useful configuration and composition. In some embodiments the SPP waveguide includes a metal disposed on a dielectric surface e.g. such as a metal on insulator MOI waveguide . In other embodiments the SPP waveguide includes a dielectric material having a top surface and a lower surface where each of the top and lower surfaces includes a metal e.g. such as a metal insulator metal MIM waveguide . In yet other embodiments the SPP waveguide includes one or more metal protuberances bumps slits apertures gratings or particles configured e.g. in an array to propagate a surface plasmon. A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

