---

title: System and method for controlling electronic communications
abstract: The approved email generation system described is capable of producing email communications between user and customer by using approved email templates and content that have been aligned with customer information regarding access to such content. Once the approved email has been generated, the content may be verified again for accuracy and validity before being delivered to the customer. When the customer accesses delivered content, the approved email generation system again verifies the content and allows the customer access to only the most current version of the content available. The system provides for control of the content of electronic communications to customers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09391937&OS=09391937&RS=09391937
owner: VEEVA SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09391937
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150429
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 271 134 which was filed on May 6 2014 which claims priority to provisional patent application Nos. 61 820 029 filed May 6 2013 and 61 828 034 filed May 28 2013. These applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

The present application relates generally to systems and methods that provide for sending approved content to electronic communications recipients including methods and systems for building the approved content and generating the approved messages for electronic communications such as email.

In certain fields the ability to achieve the efficiencies associated with modern electronic communications such as email has been hampered by the risks regulatory and otherwise of sending such electronic communications. An example of one field that has been so limited has been the pharmaceutical sales industry where sales reps typically are restricted from sending email communications to prescribing doctors because of the enormous risks that can flow from unapproved uncontrolled messages. For example a careless rep or other personnel might send an email to a subscribing doctor suggesting off label uses for a drug. This could end up exposing the company employer e.g. a pharmaceutical company to regulatory penalties or other legal liabilities.

Embodiments disclosed in the present document provide a machine implemented method for generating approved emails. The method comprises establishing a controlled content repository the controlled content repository being securely and controllably accessed establishing an access protocol for the controlled content repository whereby approved content is stored in the controlled content repository according to the access protocol and whereby the access protocol comprises at least one set of alignment rules for determining if a first piece of approved content within the controlled content repository can be made available to a first customer via an electronic message storing the approved content within the controlled content repository the approved content further being accessible according to the established access protocol aligning the approved content within the controlled content repository with information from an information management system and providing an approved email generating system which generates an electronic message according to the established access protocol for sending a piece of approved content within the controlled content repository to an approved customer.

Although similar reference numbers may be used to refer to similar elements for convenience it can be appreciated that each of the various example embodiments may be considered to be distinct variations.

The present embodiments will now be described hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which illustrate example embodiments which may be practiced. As used in the disclosures and the appended claims the terms embodiment and example embodiment do not necessarily refer to a single embodiment although it may and various example embodiments may be readily combined and interchanged without departing from the scope or spirit of the present embodiments. Furthermore the terminology as used herein is for the purpose of describing example embodiments only and are not intended to be limitations. In this respect as used herein the term in may include in and on and the terms a an and the may include singular and plural references. Furthermore as used herein the term by may also mean from depending on the context. Furthermore as used herein the term if may also mean when or upon depending on the context. Furthermore as used herein the words and or may refer to and encompass any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Embodiments disclosed in the present application allow for control of email content for communications between system users and email recipients customers by providing for a system and method for generating an approved email communication. Users may access a list of email templates which have been pre generated with approved content and then aligned with various customer attributes such as regulatory limitations customer preferences and demographic information in order to ensure compliant and tailored communication between the user and the customer.

Such controlled email or other electronic communication generation occurs at an interface between a repository of approved content items and templates along with customer relationship management CRM information including customer profile information and parameters including customer preferences and regulatory limitations or fields that can be used to facilitate compliance with regulatory limitations. The system is capable of generating warning notices to users when content and customer access do not align and users may choose various actions to address the warning notices such as excluding certain customers from the communication or changing email content. The customer information is from a customer relationship management subsystem.

In disclosed embodiments intelligent and flexible updating of records may be provided within the customer relationship management subsystem including such approaches as communicating with third party systems and sources in order to verify and update customer information in an effective and timely manner such as by using the collective information gained by managing a cloud based system Software as a Service SaaS system on behalf of multiple company customers for the disclosed embodiments.

After approved emails are constructed by the user the content contained within the approved email may be once again checked for accuracy and validity by the system before release to the email server. When a customer accesses content within an approved email the customer is directed to a customer portal through which the content is accessed. The customer may be only allowed access to the most current version of the approved content within the content repository. In this manner the content received and viewable by the customer has been verified in real time as being compliant approved content.

The controlled content repository is designed to have a process for developing approved content that is sharable across multiple users such as shareholders reviewers managers marketing personnel sales representatives etc. The content generated in the controlled content repository may be accessed on a regulated basis and used to generate approved electronic communications. This regulated basis may be determined in part by the company as a whole and additionally by interaction with data from the customer relationship management subsystem described in further detail below. In one embodiment approved content customer profile information customer preferences and regulatory limitations and requirements may be stored in a table in the controlled content repository . In addition to storage and development of content the controlled content repository may also store an audit trail tracking exact content of communications as they were sent by the user as well as metadata about the communications and information regarding the content accessed by customers.

The customer relationship management subsystem contains all contact information that may be available to users. In addition to storage of contact information the customer relationship management subsystem may also be capable of storing configurations regarding specific preferences regulatory limitations and requirements and other fields that will facilitate the generation of appropriate approved electronic communications in general or on a by recipient basis. These preferences and or requirements include both the preferences of the user e.g. maintaining account lists as well as the preferences of the enterprise e.g. employers of the users discussed in further detail below. In some examples the approved content and email templates may be pre processed and stored in the controlled content repository and provided to the multichannel processing engine during the process for generating an approved email. In other examples the customer relationship management subsystem may have a content management subsystem and may provide the approved content and the templates.

In this embodiment the customer relationship management subsystem is capable of communication with multiple sources through the customer relationship management server or through other channels to maintain a current and accurate collection of information regarding customer accounts. The interface with the multiple sources can be for example through an Applications Programming Interface or API as the API interface will allow compatibility with a flexible array of third party provider servers. The information being updated may include but is not limited to licensing information area of practice and location of the various customer contacts. In this manner the customer relationship management subsystem pulls the approved version of what represents an account or physician which then pulls from multiple networks to ensure that the information regarding an account is up to date. The customer relationship management subsystem may also be used to determine the type of domain an email communication is delivered through. A customer in Spain may receive an email from CompanyX.es whereas a customer in Germany would receive the same email from CompanyX.ge. This may allow for additional branding options for the company controlling and sending the electronic communications.

With further reference to the customer relationship management subsystem this system may be a cloud based customer database that provides a central access to store and distribute consistent data across customer companies as well as their possible third party partners and agencies that are used to keep this data updated. This system can provide standard data formats and provide an easy and automated way for customers to have access to coordinated and frequently updated CRM data and to use that coordinated data for sending approved electronic communications in accordance with the system described herein.

In an embodiment the multichannel processing engine is responsible for combining the customer account information from the customer relationship management subsystem with content available from the controlled content repository . Within the customer relationship management subsystem customer accounts may be assigned a set of alignment rules which determine specific pieces of content that are available for use from the controlled content repository . The multichannel processing engine may apply these rules and supply the user with a list of approved email templates and pieces of content that may then be used to construct an approved email communication. Approved email generation occurs within the multichannel processing engine according to executable code computer instructions stored in executable code storage .

The executable code comprises computer readable instructions stored on the computer readable medium the code storage medium . The executable code storage is in communication with the various computing machines in the system such as the customer relationship management server and the multichannel processing engine . The same or another executable code storage may be accessed by the previously described components of the controlled content repository for providing separate computer readable code for operating upon by processing machines in that system. In all cases the code is programmed to perform the functions that are described in the present embodiments and or additional functions according to system design needs.

Communication between the multichannel processing engine and the customer relationship management subsystem may occur via the customer relationship management server which acts as an interface between the two. The customer relationship management server may act solely as an entry and exit point for the customer relationship management subsystem . The user may access the multichannel processing engine through either a Web Client or through the mobile apps such as iOS Android Blackberry or Windows Mobile systems .

In an embodiment of the controlled content repository for the life sciences industry as illustrated in the figure this repository can include specific data collections for the following areas and or business process specific front end applications 

The Research Development R D front end application provides for an aggregation of materials in support of research and initial clinical trial submissions through building organized and controlled content repositories within the controlled content repository . Elements that can be stored organized and managed through this front end include submission bills of materials Drug Information Association DIA reference models support and submission ready renderings. This front end is designed to provide an interface to the controlled content repository whereby researchers contract research organizations CROs and other collaboration partners can access and or distribute content through a single controlled document system.

The clinical trials front end application provides for faster and more organized access to trial documents and reports while supporting seamless collaboration between sponsors CROs sites investigators and other trial participants. Specific features both ease study and site administration as well as support the DIA trial master file TMF reference model. Having this front end application providing access to the controlled content repository further provides for efficient passing off of controlled content repository content between this phase and other phases of the life sciences development process.

The manufacturing and quality application enables the creation review approval and distribution of controlled documents across the organization and with external partners in the context of materials control and other manufacturing elements. The application provides functionality in support of the manufacturing process including watermarking controlled print signature manifestation and Read and Understood signature capabilities. The documents and metadata associated with this process is managed and stored in the controlled content repository whereby it can be assured that the related documents are not distributed in contravention of law and company policy.

The medical communications application provides for communications with medical facilities including call center access integration and interface functionality. Particular access control features and metadata associated with this application include expiration and periodic review elements multi channel support global documents and automatic response package generation through the controlled content repository .

The marketing and sales application application provides an end to end solution for the development approval distribution expiration and withdrawal of promotional materials. Specific features include support for global pieces approved Form FDA 2253 or similar international forms form generation online document and video annotation and a built in digital asset library DAL . Again the communications may be through the controlled content repository .

In disclosed embodiments there are provided a number of back end system applications that provide for the management of the data forms and other communications in the controlled content repository. For example the back end systems applications may include a regulatory compliance engine to facilitate regulatory compliance including audit trail systems electronic signatures systems and system traceability to comply with government regulations such as 21 CFR Part 11 Annex 11 and GxP related requirements. The regulatory compliance engine may include processors for developing metadata surrounding document and project folder accesses so from a regulatory compliance standpoint it can be assured that only allowed accesses have been permitted. The regulatory compliance engine may further includes prevalidation functionality to build controlled content in support of installation qualification IQ and or operational qualification OQ resulting in significant savings to customers for their system validation costs.

In further disclosed embodiments the back end systems may contain a reporting engine that reports on documents their properties and the complete audit trail of changes. These simple to navigate reports show end users and management how content moves through its life cycle over time enabling the ability to track plan versus actual and identify process bottlenecks. The reporting engine may include processors for developing and reporting life cycle and document management reporting based on stored project data and access metadata relative to documents forms and other communications stored in the controlled content repository .

In further disclosed embodiments the back end systems can include an administrative portal whereby administrators can control documents properties users security workflow and reporting with a simple point and click web interface. Customers also have the ability to quickly change and extend the applications or create brand new applications including without writing additional software code.

In further disclosed embodiments the back end systems may include a search engine whereby the controlled content repository can deliver simple relevant and secure searching.

In providing this holistic combination of front end applications and back end system applications the various applications can further be coordinated and communicated with by the service gateway which in turn can provide for communications with various web servers and or web services APIs . Such web servers and or web services APIs can include access to the content and metadata layers of some or all of the various applications and systems enabling seamless integration among complementary systems.

In the context of the described embodiments the particular features and capabilities integrate with the other elements of the controlled email communication system such that particular features are usable within the various user screens. For example and without limitation to any other possible combination of features in the below described description of generating an approved electronic communication the above described search portal can be used to search for approved attachments i.e. content within the controlled content repository which may be then attached to one of the template emails being prepared for sending to a customer. And the synergy of combining these particular systems is that the generation of the controlled content can be done in a controlled fashion such that the approved content can be sent to customers with greater confidence in the integrity of the data being sent.

A user may also begin constructing an email from a content page e.g. when the user is viewing a document or a video on his screen. illustrates an embodiment screenshot of a Call Report interface in a web based or mobile interface within a web based system or mobile system see . While viewing a Call Report on screen a user may decide to send content related to some topics in the Call Report. The user may click on or mouse over the Action sheet next to the Sign link shown in this embodiment to get a pop up window and then select a Send Email link in the pop up window. After that the screenshot may be displayed for the user to build an approved email. Because the described system including the controlled content repository provides for a coherent and controlled access to the approved content for email communications it can be made quite flexible as to providing consistently formatted and approved content from various applications and or specific screenshots within applications.

Referring now to by selecting the Account Lists on the left hand side of the screen in users may access personally or institutionally pre constructed lists of individual customers as configured in the customer relationship management subsystem . From this screen the user may also select a number of individual customer accounts with whom they wish to communicate. Once desired customers have been selected from the list which could include the selecting of all customers in the list the user may begin building an approved email to the selected customers through the web based or mobile client application . The email may be constructed within the multichannel processing engine from the accessible content provided by the controlled content repository which has been aligned with the customer information provided by the customer relationship management subsystem .

Shown in by selecting the Send Email link the user may access the Email Generation Wizard. From this screen a user may access pre approved controlled email templates that are available and approved for the specific group of customers selected. From this approved list the user may select multiple templates. After desired templates are selected individual tabs appear at the top of the screen and within each tab is a separate approved email which may be sent to the selected customers.

The user may access an individual template as shown in the screenshot of by selecting the appropriate tab . The template may also display a warning icon shown in the top left of which indicates that one or more of the selected individuals may be restricted from receiving the chosen template with its current content. This warning is generated from information contained within the customer relationship management subsystem . The user may select this icon which generates a pop up window containing specific warning information for all potential recipients who may be currently restricted from receiving the content shown in . Recipients may be removed from the email list on this screen by selecting the appropriate icon.

Warnings generated on the pop up screen illustrated in may appear for reasons that include but are not limited to regulatory limitations customer preferences demographic information a customer opt out option where the customer has requested to not have the content delivered the absence of a customer opt in option where the customer may not receive the communication without prior approval or that the most current information contained within the customer account profile no longer allows access to the current content delivered by the controlled content repository . Information regarding regulatory limitations customer preferences demographic information the opt in or opt out status of individual customer accounts is stored within the customer relationship management subsystem .

In an embodiment as shown in the user may access an opt in request from the recipient of the email through the web based or mobile client applications . In this embodiment the user may have access to signature capture technology which allows for instant remote customer approval along with the appropriate signature .

Once all warnings are cleared or all restricted recipients are removed from the list the user may once again have access to the approved email template as illustrated in . Email templates may be either branded with imagery or may be presented in a plain text only format selectable by the user. As illustrated in the user may have the ability to personalize the email content by free texting in the text box supplied within the template. This customizable text box may also be regulated to ensure compliance by limiting the number of characters that may be typed in the box and by constructing libraries of restricted words for each customer that may not be used in the box. The information used to regulate the text box may be accessed from the customer relationship management subsystem and configuration of these regulatory parameters may be designated by both the company by the specific customer and or by specific regulation. Within the approved template the user may choose from approved content to be included in the body of the email.

The user may select the Select Documents to Share icon within the template which generates a pop up screen see containing a list of approved content from within the controlled content repository that has been aligned with the customer information retrieved from the customer relationship management subsystem . From the pop up screen the user may select multiple content items to be included within the body in the form of one hyperlink per selected content item. As the content items are selected they are added to the body of the email as individual tiles as illustrated in the center of . The list of content items may be rearranged by the user by dragging the tiles into the desired order. The user may preview the approved email on the web based or mobile applications as it will be received by the customer by selecting the magnifying glass icon located within the template screen. The user may then return to the edit function by selecting an editing icon or clicking outside the document selection pop up screen .

From this continued editing screen of the user may also select a customized valediction from a drop down menu located within the template . The overall approved content authoring system described herein includes selection capabilities that are highly flexible highly configurable and may be applicable to any place within the approved email template. The user may then send the email to selected recipients using the Send icon illustrated in

The communications between the mobile applications or the web clients and the multichannel processing engine may use any communication protocols between a web client and its server e.g. HttpPost.

In one embodiment the content contained within the generated email may be once again checked for accuracy and validity by the system just before releasing. Once the approved email is generated in the multichannel processing engine and the user selects the Send icon the communication is then sent to the controlled content repository for final verification of the accuracy and validity of the selected content. The controlled content repository may also store audit trail data which documents and retains information that may include but is not limited to recipient information time stamp data and the most current version number of any content included within the approved email. The communication is then sent back to the multichannel processing engine where it may be routed through an email server and then delivered to the customer s preferred inbox. The multichannel processing engine may send only enough information to the email server for the email server to create an email and the email server may create the actual email to be sent to the customer. The email server may collect and distribute the outbound email content but it may also collect interaction information from the customer regarding clicks views and other statistics regarding customer usage. As shown in this information may then be posted back to the multichannel processing engine as CRM updates and sent through the customer relationship management server to be deposited in the customer relationship management subsystem as information contained within the customer account profile. The email sent may also be stored in the customer relationship management subsystem .

As shown in the approved email preview screen illustrated in when an approved email is opened by the customer the customer may have immediate access to communications as they appeared in the preview screens or thumbnails available to the user through the web based or mobile applications . This communication includes the readable text and a tiled list of approved content hyperlinks shown in the figure. The recipient may choose to view the content by selecting the appropriate content icon. In an embodiment of the system the recipient may select the view pdf hyperlink within the email which will redirect the recipient to the customer portal screen shown in . Each recipient has the ability to custom configure the specific URL to be loaded as the landing page for clicks from the approved emails.

This arrangement allows for the direction of customers to specific portals. Within the portal the recipient may view the full text of the content that was included as a tile within the body of the original approved email. The content is accessed directly from the controlled content repository to ensure that the most up to date information is displayed when the customer accesses the selected content. If the content has been updated to a newer version since the user constructed the approved email then the hyperlink included in the approved email will automatically connect the customer to the most up to date version of the selected content. Information regarding the content version viewed by the customer may be stored with other pertinent information about the customer experience in the audit trail within the controlled content repository . In one embodiment the controlled content repository may create a token for the approved content to be sent with the approved email. The token may have information about which piece of content to show to the customer and direct the customer to the right content. In one embodiment even when the content is updated after the email is sent the token may direct the customer to the latest version of the content.

Illustrated in is an embodiment of the system that allows the user access to information regarding specific communications. This information is stored in the customer relationship management subsystem along with customer account information. The user may access this information through either mobile apps or through web clients . The information available may include but is not limited to the number of times the approved email communication has been opened by the customer the number of clicks executed type of device used to access the communication platform used when accessing the content and location when the communication was viewed.

At block one or more users establish approved content to be stored in the controlled content repository under the control of the access protocol established at block or as that protocol is later changed or updated . At block a system designer or other admin establishes or updates email templates that approved content senders can pick and choose from in building approved email content messages. At block a customer relationship management system is accessed such that the approved emails can be addressed to customer contacts of the enterprise or salesperson for the enterprise who is engaging in the marketing manufacturing clinical trials or other activity described herein. At block the actual email generation system is provided that interfaces with the approved content the access protocol the email templates and or the customer relationship management system. This email generation system or more specifically the multichannel processing engine is accessed by senders of approved email content as described in the present application.

It should be appreciated that as previously discussed the customer relationship management system may be further operable to communicate with multiple sources of information to build a current and accurate collection of information regarding customer accounts. It should also be appreciated that to facilitate such communications at least one of the multiple sources of information that might communicate with the custom relationship management system may communicate with external servers that belong to one or more third party partners or agencies through an Application Programming Interface API whereby the customer relationship management system can flexibly receive data updates from the one or more third party partners or agencies. The access protocol that is established may also include a set of alignment rules that determine specific pieces of approved content that are available to the selected customers from the controlled content repository.

While is described in basic terms regarding its general operation as a controlled content access system it should be appreciated that such a system is described herein with multiple specific implementations. Such specific implementations can be facilitated through front end applications in the context of supporting research development and initial clinical trial submissions as previously described. Other front end applications as previously described include manage access and or distribution of trial documents and reports in support of ongoing clinical trials materials control and or manufacturing process controls communications with medical facilities in support of medical facility operations and the development and distribution of promotional materials as related to regulatory restricted products such as prescription drugs.

To facilitate the compliance with government regulation a regulatory compliance engine can be provided to review content and the access protocols and to ensure that only approved content authored by properly authorized individuals and according to required controls can be distributed to permitted possible customers or other content recipients in accordance with government regulations.

Next with regard to a method for generation of approved email content is described. In particular shows at block the start of the process after which at block an email author or prospective sender can choose a template from a set of customizable templates. In this way the email authors or prospective senders do not have to recreate content every time an email campaign is beginning. At block the user selects the desired content from the approved content repository and the user at block selects the desired recipients or customers from the CRM database .

Still referring to the system or more specifically the multichannel processing engine confirms that the approved content and form of email may permissibly be sent by the prospective email sender to the customers or other selected recipients at based on factors including but not limited to regulatory limitations customer preferences demographic information or the opt in or opt out status of individual customer accounts. Once that has been confirmed in accordance with the access protocol the multichannel processing engine can begin building and sending the emails in accordance with the user s selections or as modified in accordance with the access protocol regulator engine and or other system controls at . The content contained within the approved email may be checked for accuracy and validity by the system before release to the email server . If the email is created when the user is offline the content contained in the approved emails may be checked again after the user is back online before they are sent to the email server.

The flowcharts do not mean to limit the sequence of the steps. In one example the controlled content repository may determine in advance before a template is chosen at if a piece of content can be sent to a customer and store the result. The result may be stored as a part of metadata for the content in the controlled content repository . During the generation of the approved email the multichannel processing engine may check information in the controlled content repository instead of the customer relationship management subsystem to decide if a piece of content can be sent to a customer.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the claims and their equivalents for any patent that issues claiming priority from the present provisional patent application.

For example although the embodiments are described with a customer relationship management subsystem the customer information and content may be from other types of information management systems e.g. a Closed Loop Marketing CLM system. In addition the multichannel processing engine is shown to communicate with only one customer relationship management subsystem in the drawings but it may communicate with more customer relationship management subsystems. For example as referred to herein a machine or engine may be a virtual machine computer node instance host or machine in a networked computing environment. Also as referred to herein a networked computing environment is a collection of machines connected by communication channels that facilitate communications between machines and allow for machines to share resources. Network may also refer to a communication medium between processes on the same machine. Also as referred to herein a server is a machine deployed to execute a program operating as a socket listener and may include software instances.

In all descriptions of servers or other computing devices herein whether or not the illustrations of those servers or other computing devices similarly show a server like illustration in the figures it should be understood that any such described servers or computing devices will similarly perform their described functions in accordance with computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable media that are connected thereto.

Resources may encompass any types of resources for running instances including hardware such as servers clients mainframe computers networks network storage data sources memory central processing unit time scientific instruments and other computing devices as well as software software licenses available network services and other non hardware resources or a combination thereof.

A networked computing environment may include but is not limited to computing grid systems distributed computing environments cloud computing environment etc. Such networked computing environments include hardware and software infrastructures configured to form a virtual organization comprised of multiple resources which may be in geographically disperse locations.

Various terms used herein have special meanings within the present technical field. Whether a particular term should be construed as such a term of art depends on the context in which that term is used. Connected to in communication with or other similar terms should generally be construed broadly to include situations both where communications and connections are direct between referenced elements or through one or more intermediaries between the referenced elements including through the Internet or some other communicating network. Network system environment and other similar terms generally refer to networked computing systems that embody one or more aspects of the present disclosure. These and other terms are to be construed in light of the context in which they are used in the present disclosure and as those terms would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art would understand those terms in the disclosed context. The above definitions are not exclusive of other meanings that might be imparted to those terms based on the disclosed context.

Words of comparison measurement and timing such as at the time equivalent during complete and the like should be understood to mean substantially at the time substantially equivalent substantially during substantially complete etc. where substantially means that such comparisons measurements and timings are practicable to accomplish the implicitly or expressly stated desired result.

Additionally the section headings herein are provided for consistency with the suggestions under 37 CFR 1.77 or otherwise to provide organizational cues. These headings shall not limit or characterize the invention s set out in any claims that may issue from this disclosure. Specifically and by way of example although the headings refer to a Technical Field such claims should not be limited by the language chosen under this heading to describe the so called technical field. Further a description of a technology in the Background is not to be construed as an admission that technology is prior art to any invention s in this disclosure. Neither is the Brief Summary to be considered as a characterization of the invention s set forth in issued claims. Furthermore any reference in this disclosure to invention in the singular should not be used to argue that there is only a single point of novelty in this disclosure. Multiple inventions may be set forth according to the limitations of the multiple claims issuing from this disclosure and such claims accordingly define the invention s and their equivalents that are protected thereby. In all instances the scope of such claims shall be considered on their own merits in light of this disclosure but should not be constrained by the headings set forth herein.

