---

title: System and method for improved lawful interceptions for calls involving in-band DTMF signaling
abstract: This disclosure relates generally to call interception techniques, and more particularly to systems and methods for improved lawful interceptions for calls involving in-band DTMF signaling. In one embodiment, a method for implementing in-band dual-tone multi-frequency call interception is disclosed. The method may include receiving a call intercept request for a target user number at a soft switch. The method may also include initiating, by one or more processors, call monitoring of a call from a calling user to a call proxy system to capture in-band dual-tone multi-frequency signaling. Further, the method may include determining whether the dual-tone multi-frequency signaling corresponds to the target user number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363366&OS=09363366&RS=09363366
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09363366
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150328
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Application No. 724 CHE 2015 filed on Feb. 13 2015. The aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to call interception techniques and more particularly to systems and methods for improved lawful interceptions for calls involving in band DTMF signaling.

Digital communication has revolutionized telephone networks. One particular aspect Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP has provided increased efficiency and quality for real time voice communications. VoIP utilizes protocols to initiate and control call parameters. For example Session Initiation Protocol SIP is an application layer protocol that is used to set up VoIP phone calls. SIP INVITE messages may indicate contact information to initiate a call to a called user. Other types of SIP messages may be used to query capabilities or match codecs for a VoIP call.

As telephone technology has advanced telephonic surveillance techniques have also changed. Rather than placing a monitoring device on a particular phone handset a gateway may monitor VoIP call messages at the core of the packet network. Existing VoIP surveillance techniques rely on intercepting SIP messages that identify a calling party or a caller party. For example an SIP INVITE message may include the IP address of a called user.

In one embodiment a method for implementing in band dual tone multi frequency DTMF call interception is disclosed. The method may include receiving a call intercept request for a target user number at a soft switch. The method may also include initiating by one or more processors call monitoring of a call from a calling user to a call proxy system to capture in band dual tone multi frequency signaling. Further the method may include determining whether the dual tone multi frequency signaling corresponds to the target user number.

In another embodiment a method for implementing proxy call interception is disclosed. The method may include receiving a call intercept request for a target user number at a soft switch. The method may further include initiating by one or more processors call monitoring of a call from a calling user to a call proxy system to capture signaling plane data. The method may include determining whether the signaling plane data corresponds to the target user number.

In another embodiment a method for implementing in band dual tone multi frequency call interception is disclosed. The method may include receiving a call intercept request for a target user number at a soft switch. The method may include sending by one or more processors to a neighboring media gateway controller a request for call monitoring of a call from a calling user to a call proxy system to capture in band dual tone multi frequency signaling. The method may further include receiving by the one or more processors from the neighboring media gateway controller the in band multi frequency signaling. Additionally the method may include determining whether the dual tone multi frequency signaling corresponds to the target user number.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the figures the left most digit s of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

A law enforcement agency LEA may provide a request and or authorization for a lawful interception LI of calls involving a target user. A LEA may be a government organization. Example LEAs include local state national and international agencies that may monitor and track criminal activities or protect national interests. An LEA LI may require approval from another entity. For example a city police department may need approval from the judiciary e.g. a judge in order to approve an LI. In other embodiments an LEA may include a quasi governmental entity or a private investigator.

Simply monitoring the calls made by the target user may not capture all calls involving the target user. Users may place calls to the target user using a call proxy system. For example a user may dial an automated call proxy system and enter the target user number. The call proxy system may then place a call to the target user number and connect the caller to the target user. Example call proxy systems may include for example calling card systems reverse charge calling systems e.g. collect calling systems operator assisted call systems automated operator service systems and Home Country Direct call services. Other call proxy systems may be used such that they allow a call to eventually be made to a user without placing the initial call to the user.

With regard to call proxy systems some call interception processes may be limited because for example they may rely on explicit protocol signaling messages to indicate the called user. Hence if the called user contact information in a signaling message matches a target identifier the call may be recorded by a network device. However when a call is placed to a call proxy system which in turn connects the caller with the target user the protocol signaling messages may not indicate that the caller is being connected to the target user.

Embodiments of this disclosure may use in band call signaling such as in band DTMF signaling to determine that a user is placing a call to a target user. When interacting with a call proxy system in band signaling corresponding to the target user such as DTMF digits may be sent from the caller to the call proxy system. By monitoring in band signaling of calls the embodiments of the disclosure may determine whether the caller is being connected to a target user even though the initial call is not placed to the target user.

Illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure are listed below. In one embodiment in band DTMF call interception systems are described. In another embodiment in band DTMF signaling call interception processes is described. In an embodiment a computer system is disclosed which may carry out disclosed processes. The disclosed systems and processes may be used in conjunction or applied separately without limitation.

In an embodiment LEA may include LEA administrator . LEA administrator may be a computerized interface to receive user input. In other embodiments LEA administrator may be an automated server such as a networked hardware server which may process call intercept requests without human intervention.

LEA administrator may provide call intercept information to service provider . In an embodiment LEA administrator may provide an LI action to LI provisioning system using HI1 interface . For example LEA administrator may transmit an identifier of a target identifier such as a telephone number or IP address. LEA administrator may further indicate additional details for the LI action. For example the LI action may indicate an expiration for the LI action multiple target identifiers preferred monitoring data e.g. particular formats for LI information types of channels to monitor and whether to use in band DTMF analysis. These details may allow LEA to specify LI actions that comply with local and national laws regarding surveillance and call monitoring.

In an embodiment LEA may include LEA enforcement monitoring facility LEMF . LEMF may receive LI data from service provider . In an embodiment LEMF may receive information from LI gateway using HI2 interface or HI3 interface . For example HI2 interface may include call detail information such as timing numbers and DTMF data. LEMF may receive media content e.g. voice video data fax from LI gateway using HI3 interface . LEMF may store and provide LI information to networks device and users of LEA . For example LEMF may receive requests from networked device for specific LI information. LEMF may provide requested detail information or media content to the networked device.

While LEA administrator and LEMF are depicted as part of LEA it is to be understood that LEA administrator and LEMF may not be physically located at a law enforcement agency. In some embodiments LEA administrator and LEMF may be located at different secure sites such as secured information facilities. In an embodiment LEA administrator and LEMF may not be collocated. For example LEA administrator may be located at a different location than LEMF .

In an embodiment service provider may include LI provisioning system . LI provisioning system may receive call intercept requests. For example LI provisioning system may receive call intercept requests e.g. LI requests or LI actions from LEA . In an embodiment the call intercept requests may include an identifier corresponding to a target user. For example the call intercept may include the IP address telephone number MAC address or email address of a person whose calls should be intercepted. LI provisioning system may transmit messages to improved MGC and LI gateway based on the call intercept requests. For example LI provisioning system may transmit the target user identifier such as a telephone number to improved MGC over X1 interface with an instruction to monitor in band signaling for the target user identifier. LI provisioning system may also transmit information and instructions to LI gateway over X1 interface .

In an embodiment service provider may include at least one media gateway MGW and media gateway controller MGC . As depicted service provider includes improved MGC and improved MGW . The improved MGC and improved MGW may provide standard gateway controller and gateway functionality respectively. They may also perform DTMF detection. For example improved MGW may monitor the information being transferred in the media path such as DTMF tones that occur during DTMF digit dialing.

Improved MGW may send improved notifications to improved MGC . The notification may be improved in that it may aid improved MGC in determining if DTMF signaling contains a target identifier. For example improved MGW may transmit improved notifications that include DTMF tones captured from in band signaling. The improved notifications may also indicate the intent and purpose of the in band DTMF signals.

In an embodiment service provider may include LI gateway . LI gateway may receive information from improved MGC and improved MGW . For example improved MGC may provide call detail information over X2 interface while improved MGW may provide media content e.g. voice video data fax over X3 interface .

LI gateway may perform transcoding processes. In an embodiment LI gateway may reformat data received from improved MGC and improved MGW prior to sending the data to LEMF . LI gateway may transcode data to a particular format. For example LI gateway may convert captured audio from to a particular file format or compress video. In an embodiment the LI action received from LEA administrator may include specific formatting requirements for data. LI provisioning system may transmit these requirements to LI gateway over X1 interface . The formatting requirements may specify for example file formats bit rates file size limits resolution requirements and image types.

In an embodiment MGC may include various sub systems to perform the objects of this disclosure. As depicted MGC may include provisioning interface LI sub system signaling sub system billing sub system routing session management control RSMC other sub systems DTMF analyzer and signal external interface sub system SEIS . Additional sub systems may be used to perform disclosed processes. These sub systems may be discrete units or combined into fewer separate sub systems. The sub systems may be made of discrete circuitry or processors or programmable applications which run on hardware.

Provisioning interface may interact with the external provisioning systems such as element management systems EMS and network management systems NMS . In an embodiment provisioning interface may communicate with LI provisioning system and soft switch provisioning system . Provisioning interface may make updates to copies of provisioned data in MGC and may pass information to the necessary sub systems so that the provisioned data may be used by different sub systems.

In an embodiment provisioning interface may interact with LEA systems. Provisioning interface may obtain input from a LI gateway using for example an LEA interface. The input may describe the specific actions to be taken by MGC when a potential false trigger for LI initiation for a call. For example provisioning interface may Initiate a LI even if the digits are dialed as DTMF beyond normal inter digit timer values but within a specified threshold. The caller may dial digits slowly such that normal dialing systems may timeout. However provisioning interface may include predefined inter digit timers that extend beyond standard inter digit intervals. In another example provisioning interface may receiving instructions to Initiate a LI when an analysis of in band DTMF data indicates a confidence level of greater than 90 that the call involves an LI target. Further example instructions include sending information only over an X2 interface e.g. not sending any information over an X3 interface when an analysis indicates a confidence level of more than 80 that a call involves an LI target. In this example MGC may send only signaling information for the call rather than media contents e.g voice and video .

DTMF analyzer may process DTMF data. In an embodiment DTMF analyzer may determine whether in band data includes a target identifier. For example DTMF analyzer may obtain input regarding DTMF digits that may be reported by MGW . DTMF analyzer may perform an analysis based on the DTMF input. The DTMF input may include for example digit sequences the user who sent the digits whether the user is a calling users or a called user and inter digit intervals for the DTMF data. During the analysis the DTMF analyzer may dynamically adapt the inter digit interval threshold and the threshold interval between the tone and the start of the dual tone multi frequency signaling is dynamically adapted based on for example distance of the calling user from the media gateway distance of the call proxy system from the media gateway and congestion level of a path in the network over which media content for the call is transported The DTMF analyzer may determine the confidence level that the call involves an LI target based on the analysis aforementioned and also taking into consideration historical data of calls involving the specific calling called user. DTMF analyzer may reference instructions associated with an LI to determine actions to perform in case of potential false trigger for LI initiation for a call. In an embodiment DTMF analyzer may utilize the DTMF data to trigger LI sub system to initiate an LI for a particular call. DTMF analyzer may based on the analysis transmit instructions to LI sub system to send additional info to LI gateway . For example DTMF analyzer may send instructions to LI sub system to format DTMF information into a format that the LEA can understand.

LI sub system may process LI actions from an LEA such as LEA . In an embodiment LI sub system may carry out all LI related actions in MGC . LI sub system may interface with the LEA e.g. via LI gateway . LI sub system may provide signalling information for an LEA for example through LI gateway over an X2 interface. LI sub system may initiate media content duplication and transport to an LEA. In an embodiment LI sub system may receive input from DTMF analyzer . For example DTMF analyzer may provide information necessary to initiate a LI for a call and or report additional information to LI gateway .

SEIS may process communication with external systems for MGC . In an embodiment SEIS may handle protocol messages associated signalling state machines and interactions with MGW and transmissions from other networks e.g. PSTN PLMN VOIP IMS etc. . For example SEIS may send and receive LI information to manage ongoing intercepts. SEIS may send information present in an enriched notification from MGW using protocol interface . The enriched notification may include DTMF digits and inter digit. SEIS may forward the enriched notification to DTMF analyzer . SEIS may send information present in an enriched signalling message received from a neighbouring node on a signalling path towards DTMF analyzer within the MGC . For example SEIS may process enriched SIP INFO messages to forward information to DTMF analyzer .

Signaling sub system may manage signaling protocol process for MGC . For example signaling sub system may monitor and control signaling state machines and protocol function handling for various call setup signalling interfaces to other MGCs and SIP nodes and networks e.g. PSTN PLMN . RSMC may perform call control processes. In an embodiment RSMC may be responsible for set up and tear down of a call session. RSMC may control routing of the call to the proper destination and triggering other sub systems such as billing sub system . Billing sub system may provide billing services. process charges associated with call services. In an embodiment billing sub system may process call charges. For example billing sub system may collect information such as Call Data Records and transport the call data records to a business support sub system BSS periodically over standard or proprietary interfaces. Other sub systems may represent other sub systems that may be present in MGC . These sub systems may not be used in disclosed processes.

System may include MGW . In an embodiment MGW may include various sub system for implementing disclosed processes. As depicted MGW may include SEIS provisioning interface in band signaling sub system IBSS media interworking sub system transcoding sub system voice band sub system VBS and other sub systems . Additional sub systems may be used to perform disclosed processes. These sub systems may be discrete units or combined into fewer separate sub systems. The sub systems may be made of discrete circuitry or processors or programmable applications which run on hardware.

Provisioning interface may provide provisioned data to sub systems of MGW . In an embodiment provisioning interface may interact with MGW provisioning system to update provisioned data. For example provisioning interface may update copies of provisioned data in MGW and pass information to the necessary sub systems so that the provisioned data may be used by different sub systems.

SEIS may process communication with external systems for MGW . In an embodiment SEIS may handle protocol messages associated signalling state machines and interactions with MGC . For example SEIS may track states for SIP messaging. In an embodiment SEIS may interpret triggers from MGC . The triggers may allow SEIS to provide improved detection and notification of DTMF information. SEIS may provide the DTMF information to IBSS and VBS for processing. In an embodiment SEIS may aggregate and sequence the information received from IBSS and VBS . SEIS may send this sequence information over protocol interface to MGC . For example SEIS may utilize improved form of NOTIFY messages to indicate a series of DTMF digits an announcement or a combination thereof. For example SEIS may transmit five DTMF digits an announcement for 10 seconds and three additional DTMF digits.

Media interworking sub system may translate media between networks. In an embodiment MGW may receive media from various networks such as PSTN and IP networks. Media interworking sub system may interwork media between different networks. For example media interworking sub system may interwork media between a PSTN network e.g. E1 T1 connections and an IP network e.g. RTP between two PSTN networks e.g. PSTN hairpinning and or between two IP networks e.g. IP hairpinning .

Transcoding sub system may handle codecs for MGW . In an embodiment transcoding sub system may work with media interworking sub system . For example transcoding sub system may provide the codecs necessary to transcode media for two different networks.

IBSS may provide in band signaling operations. In an embodiment IBSS may detect DTMF digits and multi frequency tones. For example IBSS may process incoming audio data to identify DTMF digits in captured audio. IBSS may also collect digits and perform digit pulsing. In an embodiment IBSS may also handle the generation of specialized packet formats to indicate DTMF digits. For example IBSS may identify DTMF tones in audio and generate packets compliant with RFC 2833 a format for transporting DTMF tones in packets. In an embodiment IBSS may detect and store DTMF information. IBSS may record inter digit intervals timestamps of each digit dialed and a duration of each tone for example. Using this information IBSS may determine digit spacing such as which digits are dialed in close series. IBSS may pass the DTMF information to SEIS for improved notification to MGC .

VBS may provide functions to process voice audio. In an embodiment VBS may receive audio data including voices. VBS may perform echo cancellation jitter handling fax transmission processing e.g. T.38 voice band fax media inactivity detection and comfort noise generation. For example during a call VBS may generate a comfort tone for a caller and remove background noise. In an embodiment VBS may provide in band voice analysis for DTMF dialing. VBS may monitor media activity during the period of DTMF dialing. For example VBS may determine whether an announcement is being played during DTMF dialing. VBS may provide resulting information to SEIS to send to MGC .

Other sub systems may represent other sub systems that may be present in MGC . These sub systems may or may not be used in disclosed processes. System may include additional interfaces and network connections not depicted to interface with different networks.

Process may begin at step . In step LI provisioning system may receive an LI action from LEA administrator using a LEA interface LEAD. The LI action may include an activation of a LI for a particular subscriber e.g. a target user . The LI activation may allow interception for all calls involving service provider or MGC until the LI is deactivated. In other embodiments the LI activation may include an activation period. For example the LI action may indicate that the LI expires at a particular time.

In step LEAI may provide specifications outlining how an LI should be implemented. Provisioning interface may receive the specification and provide the information to DTMF analyzer . The LEAI may specify actions to be taken by MGC based on the certainty of the DTMF digits resulting from DTMF analysis. For example the specification may instruct particular actions for MGC to perform when the certainty that a call involves an LI target falls below a predetermined threshold.

In an embodiment the specifications provided by the LEAI may instruct system to perform different actions for different levels of certainty. The LEAI may provide different threshold levels and a specific action based on the level of certainty exceeding the threshold. For example table below provides a list of example threshold certainty levels and corresponding actions.

Additional actions may be defined by the LEAI. The LEAI may instruct system to use an extended inter digit timer when identifying called user digits. For example the LEAI may state that although a standard inter digit timer times out at 2 seconds to continue record DTMF digits up to an interval of 5 seconds. In another example the LEAI may suspend the use of inter digit timers altogether analyzing DTMF values as an ongoing stream of digits. The LEAI may also specify individual MGWs of MGCs that should activate DTMF detection. The LEAI may also specify for which destinations calls via the MGC DTMF detection should be activated in the MGW controlled by the MGC.

In step a call may be made by a user that is not a target user e.g. a non LI target user user Y . User Y may place a call to a call proxy system e.g. a pre paid calling card server .

In step system may monitor call initiation by a non LI target user. In an embodiment DTMF analyzer of MGC e.g. the local network may instruct SEIS to send a message to MGW while a call is being setup by MGC to enable enhanced DTMF and media path detection for all calls. The message from SEIS may be received by SEIS . Based on the message from MGC SEIS may provide necessary information to IBSS and VBS . IBSS and VBS may assign resources required to provide enhanced DTMF detection and media path detection. For example IBSS may be responsible for facilitating DTMF detection and VBS may enable media path detection.

IBSS may monitor DTMF information in multiple formats. For example DTMF signals may be transported in band e.g. in the media path using in band audio signals transported over a PSTN network. Other DTMF signal formats may include payload in RTP packets on a VoIP network e.g. as defined in IEFT RFC 2833 and 4733 audio payload RTP packets in a VoIP network and or proprietary packet audio or signaling formats used in a local network and or known by system .

In an embodiment DTMF analyzer may trigger the enabling of enhanced DTMF detection and or media path detection independently of requests for DTMF detection or a lack thereof from LEA or a remote side. For example DTMF analyzer may ready sub systems for forthcoming LI actions by pre provisioning the necessary resources to provide requested LI services.

In an embodiment call monitoring may be pre screened based on specific callers and or called numbers. System may only monitor call initiation requests originating from specific user or direct to specific called numbers such as for example number of known call proxy systems. The pre screening process may reduce the processing load on system . Numbers of known call proxy systems or specific pre determined callers may be sent by LEA or LI provisioning system to MGC .

In an embodiment no media gateway may be controlled by MGC . In these instances when the call proxy system or call proxy system s network are reported separately over the signaling path DTMF analyzer may instruct SEIS both of MGC to send a request to a media gateway controller of a neighboring node on the signaling path. The request may call on the media gateway controller of a neighboring node to perform enhanced DTMF detection and notify MGC of any DTMF information. An extended interface between MGC and the media gateway controller of the neighboring node on the signaling path may facilitate the request and transmission of enhanced DTMF information.

In step system may provide enhanced monitoring of DTMF activity. IBSS of MGW may begin monitoring DTMF activity e.g. based on instructions received in Step . IBSS may for example capture requested information such as DTMF digits inter digit intervals and or groups of digits. VBS may begin monitoring and capturing relevant information on the media path. For example VBS may capture in band audio during digit dialing such as tones and announcements. IBSS and VBS may coordinate monitoring processes.

In an embodiment no media gateway may be controlled by MGC . In these instances the monitoring process may be performed by a media gateway of a neighboring node. For example other media gateways may include an in band signaling sub system and voice band sub system like MGW . These sub systems of a neighboring node may receive instructions from SEIS to perform step .

In step system may receive enhanced DTMF data. In an embodiment a calling user may dial a target user s number e.g. an identifier of an LI target after an in band prompt or announcement from a call proxy system. The dialing may produce DTMF tones. IBSS and VBS may capture these DTMF tones along with related information such as inter digit intervals. Additional announcements or prompts may be played in the media path as the calling user interacts with the call proxy system. VBS may record audio and information transmitted over the media path. SEIS may receive all information gathered by IBSS and VBS including for example the DTMF digits audio of any announcements and inter digit intervals. SEIS may aggregate and forward the information to MGC by way of SEIS . For example SEIS may send an H.248 NOTIFY message to SEIS .

In an embodiment SEIS may report additional information. For example SEIS may report network congestion levels on the media path and or whether there was any RTP activity during dialing of the DTMF digits to a call proxy system. Additional information may be used to more precisely determine whether a call is being placed to a target user using the call proxy system. To report this additional information SEIS may use a modified interface. For example SEIS may use an extended H.248 interface between MGW and MGC to report this additional information.

In an embodiment no media gateway may be controlled by MGC . In these instances the neighboring media gateway and neighboring media gateway controller may be responsible for triggering monitoring of DTMF information and reporting DTMF information to MGC . An enhanced interface between MGC and a neighboring node may facilitate the transmission of captured DTMF information. For example an enhanced SIP INFO message may be used by the neighboring node when SIP is used by both media gateway controllers.

In step system may analyze DTMF data. DTMF analyzer may receive DTMF information from SEIS as gathered by IBSS and VBS step . DTMF analyzer may use the DTMF information to determine whether a target user has been dialed. In an embodiment DTMF analyzer may process DTMF digits inter digit intervals the presence or lack thereof of any RTP activity during digit dialing and or the sequence of events to determine if the call involves a target user. For example DTMF analyzer may determine that seven DTMF digits were dialed in series with minimal inter digit intervals to form a series of numbers match the phone number of a target user.

In an embodiment DTMF analyzer may alter the DTMF analysis process based on situational information. DTMF analyzer may adjust the threshold limits provisioned by LEA based on factors affecting call signaling. For example DTMF analyzer may utilize factors such as whether the call is connected directly to MGC a neighboring media gateway controller a switch in a PSTN network or a switch or proxy in a VoIP network the proximity e.g. physical distance between the call and MGW the congestion level of the network over which media information is transmitted e.g. causing a delay in packet transmission and or the proximity e.g. physical distance of the call proxy system to MGW . These factors may influence the delay for tones or announcements from the call proxy system to the calling user. The direct connection of the caller and network congestion may influence delay in the DTMF digits from the calling user reaching MGW . The direct connection of the calling user also influence delays due to processing in intermediate switches which network congestion and call proxy system proximity may influence transmission delay. Finally network congestion may influence different inter digit intervals of DTMF signals even though the DTMF digits were dialed within a specified time interval.

In an embodiment no media gateway may be controlled by MGC . In these instances DTMF analyzer utilizes the DTMF information aggregated by and received from a neighboring media gateway controller. In this example the connection between the neighboring media gateway controller and MGC e.g. physical distance network congestion may also be a factor influencing the analysis of DTMF analyzer .

In step system may determine whether DTMF detection criteria are met. In an embodiment DTMF analyzer may decide whether the call involves a target user. For example DTMF analyzer may determine with 100 certainty that the DTMF information corresponds to a target user.

In an embodiment alternative criteria may be used. For example rather than using a score of 100 certainty a score of 90 or greater may be high enough to initiate an LI. In another criteria scheme the criteria may include fractional matching. For example the DTMF tones may only need to match eight of the ten digits of a target users phone number e.g. detected DTMF tones 202 555 198 may be deemed to match target identifier 202 555 1989 . Additional criteria schemes may be used consistent with this disclosure. Various criteria may be combined in a single test. For example certainty of individual digits may be used with the need to only match eight digits with 90 certainty.

Regardless of the DTMF criteria used should they not be met e.g. step no process may proceed to step . In step system may perform other actions. These actions may not include initiating an LI for the call. The actions may include cataloging the DTMF analysis results.

In an embodiment LEA may send instructions for partial matches of DTMF data. The instructions provided by LEA may include specific instructions describing alternative e.g. non LI initiation actions based on partial criteria matches. For example should a certainty score of 80 90 result MGC may forward DTMF information as well as information exchanged for the call on the signaling plane e.g. signaling information or information used by DTMF analyzer over an X2 interface. After step is complete process may end.

When DTMF analysis criteria are met e.g. step yes process may proceed to step . In step system may initiate an LI for a call involving an LI target. In an embodiment DTMF analyzer may instruct LI sub system to initiate LI for the call. LI sub system may initiate LI for a call. For example LI sub system may record the audio for a call. LI sub system may capture additional information exchanged during the call such as signaling information and in band data as part of the LI. When the call involves video such as in video conferencing LI sub system may include the capability to capture the video exchanged during the conference. The LI action may describe whether video and or images should be captured from video conferences.

In step system may monitor the call proxy system call setup with an LI target user. System may confirm that the call has connected to a user using the call proxy system. In an embodiment system may continue to monitor in band signaling to further verify that the call is being placed to a target user.

In step system may transmit relevant LI information to LEA . DTMF analyzer may provide all call information to LI sub system . LI sub system may convert the information as necessary to be understood by LI gateway and transmit the information to LI gateway . LI gateway may transcode and provide the LI information to LEMF . After step process may end.

In an embodiment process may be applied to instances where the calling user is the target user. For example system may know based on standard call initiation signaling message that the caller initiating the call is a target user. However the target user may call a call proxy system which could mask the called user. System and the steps of process may be adapted and used to determine the called user in these situations. For example DTMF analyzer may be used to analyze DTMF information generated by the target user s call to a call proxy system. But in these instances there is no need to make a determination whether the LI should be initiated e.g. step because system already knows that a target user is involved in the call because of the call initiation signaling. However the DTMF analyzer may provide the DTMF information to the LI subsystem and this information is then sent by the LI sub system after converting the information as necessary to be understood by LI gateway to LI gateway .

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.11 a b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc. Variations of memory devices may be used for implementing for example LEMF service provider MGC and MGW .

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. e.g. contact information LI data DTMF data recorded call data etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described systems and methods for improved lawful interceptions for calls involving in band DTMF signaling. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

