---

title: Maytansinoid derivatives with sulfoxide linker
abstract: The invention relates to novel maytansinoid compounds having sulfoxide linkers and more specifically to novel maytansinoid compounds of structural formula (I) and (II). The invention also provides conjugates of the maytansinoid compounds linked to a cell-binding agent. The invention further provides compositions and methods useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder in a mammal using the compounds or conjugates of the invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09624240&OS=09624240&RS=09624240
owner: ImmunoGen, Inc.
number: 09624240
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150521
---
This application is a Divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 009 957 filed Oct. 4 2013 now allowed which is a National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2012 029791 filed Mar. 20 2012 claiming priority based on U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 504 953 filed Jul. 6 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 476 529 filed Apr. 18 2011 the contents of all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety

The present invention relates to novel cytotoxic compounds and cytotoxic conjugates comprising these cytotoxic compounds and cell binding agents. More specifically this invention relates to novel maytansinoid compounds derivatives thereof intermediates thereof conjugates thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof which are useful as medicaments in particular as anti proliferative agents.

Antibody drug conjugates ADC are emerging as a powerful class of anti tumor agents with efficacy across a range of cancers. ADCs are commonly composed of three distinct elements a cell binding agent a linker and a cytotoxic agent. The linker component of ADC is an important element in developing targeted anti cancer agents that possess an optimal therapeutic window high activity at a low non toxic dose.

One embodiment of the present invention is directed to a compound represented by structural formula I 

One embodiment of the present invention is directed to a compound represented by structural formula I 

The present invention is also directed to conjugates comprising a cell binding agent chemically linked to a compound of structural formula I I or II . In one embodiment the conjugate is represented by the following structural formula 

The present invention is also directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising the conjugates described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder an autoimmune disorder a destructive bone disorder an infectious disease a viral disease a fibrotic disease a neurodegenerative disorder a pancreatitis or kidney disease in a mammal comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of the conjugate described herein and optionally in combination with another chemotherapeutic agent.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a cytotoxic compound or a conjugate described herein for use in inhibiting abnormal cell growth or in treating a proliferative disorder an autoimmune disorder a destructive bone disorder an infectious disease a viral disease a fibrotic disease a neurodegenerative disorder a pancreatitis or kidney disease in a mammal.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention.

 Alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated aliphatic linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical having one to twenty carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl include but are not limited to methyl ethyl 1 propyl 2 propyl 1 butyl 2 methyl 1 propyl CHCH CH 2 butyl 2 methyl 2 propyl 1 pentyl 2 pentyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 1 butyl 2 methyl 1 butyl 1 hexyl 2 hexyl 3 hexyl 2 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 2 pentyl 4 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 3 pentyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like. Preferably the alkyl has one to ten carbon atoms also referred to as Calkyl . More preferably the alkyl has one to six carbon atoms also referred to as Calkyl . Even more preferably the alkyl has one to four carbon atoms also referred to as Calkyl .

 Alkenyl as used herein refers to aliphatic linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twenty carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon double bond wherein the alkenyl radical includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like. Preferably the alkenyl has two to ten carbon atoms also referred to as Calkenyl . More preferably the alkyl has two to four carbon atoms also referred to as Calkenyl .

 Alkynyl as used herein refers to aliphatic linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twenty carbon atoms with at least one carbon carbon triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 pentynyl hexynyl and the like. Preferably the alkynyl has two to ten carbon atoms also referred to as Calkynyl . More preferably the alkynyl has two to four carbon atoms also referred to as Calkynyl .

The term alkylene refers to a saturated aliphatic linear or branched chain divalent hydrocarbon radical having one to twenty carbon atoms. Preferably the alkylene has one to ten carbon atoms. More preferably the alkylene has one to four carbon atoms.

The term carbocycle carbocyclyl and carbocyclic ring refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent I enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex I enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

The terms cyclic alkyl and cycloalkyl can be used interchangeably. They refer to a monovalent saturated carbocyclic ring radical. Preferably the cycloalkyl is 3 to 7 membered monocyclic ring radical. More preferably the cycloalkyl is cyclohexyl.

 Aryl as used herein means a monovalent monocyclic or polycyclic e.g. bicyclic or tricyclic aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 18 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronapthyl and the like. Preferably aryl is phenyl group.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 18 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 or 6 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 18 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or O carboline.

The heteroatoms present in heteroaryl or heterocyclcyl can include the oxidized forms such as NO SO and SO.

The alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl carbocyclyl aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl described above can be optionally substituted with one more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 or more suitable substituents. In one embodiment the alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl carbocyclyl aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl described above is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl carbocyclyl aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl described above are substituted with one more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 or more suitable substituents.

Such suitable substituents in non limiting examples can be selected from an alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms cycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl heterocycyclyl halogen guanidinium NH C NH NH OR NRR NO NRCOR SR a sulfoxide represented by SOR a sulfone represented by SOR a sulfonate SOM a sulfate OSOM a sulfonamide represented by SONRR cyano an azido COR OCOR OCONRRand a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH Rwherein M is H or a cation such as Na or K R R Rand Rare each independently selected from H alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH R wherein n is an integer from 1 to 24 an aryl having from 6 to 10 carbon atoms a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 10 carbon atoms and a heteroaryl having 5 to 10 carbon atoms and Ris H or a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl and heterocycyclyl in the groups represented by R R R Rand Rare optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 or more substituents independently selected from halogen OH CN NOand unsubstituted linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Preferably the substituents for the optionally substituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cyclic alkyl cyclic alkenyl cyclic alkynyl carbocyclyl aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl described above include halogen CN NRR CF OR aryl heteroaryl heterocycycl SR SOR SORand SOM. Preferably the suitable substituent is selected from the group consisting of halogen OH NO CN Calkyl OR NRR NRCOR SR SOR SONRR COR OCORand OCONRRwherein R Rand Rare each independently H or Calkyl.

The term compound and cytotoxic compound are used interchangeably. They are intended to include compounds for which a structure or formula or any derivative thereof has been disclosed in the present invention or a structure or formula or any derivative thereof that has been incorporated by reference. The term also includes stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs and prodrug salts of a compound of all the formulae disclosed in the present invention. The term also includes any solvates hydrates and polymorphs of any of the foregoing. The specific recitation of stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salt prodrug prodrug salt conjugates conjugates salt solvate hydrate or polymorph in certain aspects of the invention described in this application shall not be interpreted as an intended omission of these forms in other aspects of the invention where the term compound is used without recitation of these other forms.

The term conjugate as used herein refers to a compound described herein or a derivative thereof that is linked to a cell binding agent.

The term linkable to a cell binding agent as used herein refers to the compounds described herein or derivates thereof comprising at least one linking group or a precursor thereof suitable to bond these compounds or derivatives thereof to a cell binding agent.

The term precursor of a given group refers to any group which may lead to that group by any deprotection a chemical modification or a coupling reaction.

The term linked to a cell binding agent refers to a conjugate molecule comprising at least one of the compounds described herein e.g. compounds of formula I or II or derivative thereof bound to a cell binding agent via a suitable linking group or a precursor thereof.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their minor image partner.

The term stereoisomer refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution and connectivity but different orientations of their atoms in space that cannot be interconverted by rotation about single bonds.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not minor images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as crystallization electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable minor images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. McGraw Hill Dictionary of Chemical Terms 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and I or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are minor images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. See e.g. Wilman Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast 1986 and Stella et al. Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery Directed Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press 1985 . The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to ester containing prodrugs phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs .beta. lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

The term prodrug is also meant to include a derivative of a compound that can hydrolyze oxidize or otherwise react under biological conditions in vitro or in vivo to provide a compound of this invention. Prodrugs may only become active upon such reaction under biological conditions or they may have activity in their unreacted forms. Examples of prodrugs contemplated in this invention include but are not limited to analogs or derivatives of compounds of any one of the formulae disclosed herein that comprise biohydrolyzable moieties such as biohydrolyzable amides biohydrolyzable esters biohydrolyzable carbamates biohydrolyzable carbonates biohydrolyzable ureides and biohydrolyzable phosphate analogues. Other examples of prodrugs include derivatives of compounds of any one of the formulae disclosed herein that comprise NO NO ONO or ONOmoieties. Prodrugs can typically be prepared using well known methods such as those described by Burger s Medicinal Chemistry and Drug Discovery 1995 172 178 949 982 Manfred E. Wolff ed. 5th ed see also Goodman and Gilman s The Pharmacological basis of Therapeutics 8th ed. McGraw Hill Int. Ed. 1992 Biotransformation of Drugs .

As used herein and unless otherwise indicated the terms biohydrolyzable amide biohydrolyzable ester biohydrolyzable carbamate biohydrolyzable carbonate biohydrolyzable ureide and biohydrolyzable phosphate analogue mean an amide ester carbamate carbonate ureide or phosphate analogue respectively that either 1 does not destroy the biological activity of the compound and confers upon that compound advantageous properties in vivo such as uptake duration of action or onset of action or 2 is itself biologically inactive but is converted in vivo to a biologically active compound. Examples of biohydrolyzable amides include but are not limited to lower alkyl amides .alpha. amino acid amides alkoxyacyl amides and alkylaminoalkylcarbonyl amides. Examples of biohydrolyzable esters include but are not limited to lower alkyl esters alkoxyacyloxy esters alkyl acylamino alkyl esters and choline esters. Examples of biohydrolyzable carbamates include but are not limited to lower alkylamines substituted ethylenediamines amino acids hydroxyalkylamines heterocyclic and heteroaromatic amines and polyether amines. Particularly favored prodrugs and prodrug salts are those that increase the bioavailability of the compounds of this invention when such compounds are administered to a mammal.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts and ammonium salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

As used herein the term solvate means a compound which further includes a stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amount of solvent such as water isopropanol acetone ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine dichloromethane 2 propanol or the like bound by non covalent intermolecular forces. Solvates or hydrates of the compounds are readily prepared by addition of at least one molar equivalent of a hydroxylic solvent such as methanol ethanol 1 propanol 2 propanol or water to the compound to result in solvation or hydration of the imine moiety.

The term cytotoxic agent as used herein refers to any compound that results in the death of a cell induces cell death or decreases cell viability. Suitable cytotoxic agents include for example maytansinoids and maytansinoid analogs taxoids CC 1065 and CC 1065 analogs and dolastatin and dolastatin analogs. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the cytotoxic agent is a maytansinoid including maytansinol maytansinol analogs ansamitocin and ansamitocin analogs. Maytansinoids are compounds that inhibit microtubule formation and are highly toxic to mammalian cells. Examples of suitable maytansinol analogues include those having a modified aromatic ring and those having modifications at other positions. Such maytansinoids are described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 256 746 4 294 757 4 307 016 4 313 946 4 315 929 4 322 348 4 331 598 4 361 650 4 362 663 4 364 866 4 424 219 4 371 533 4 450 254 5 475 092 5 585 499 5 846 545 and 6 333 410.

Examples of maytansinol analogs having a modified aromatic ring include 1 C 19 dechloro U.S. Pat. No. 4 256 746 prepared by LAH reduction of ansamytocin P2 2 C 20 hydroxy or C 20 demethyl C 19 dechloro U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 361 650 and 4 307 016 prepared by demethylation using or or dechlorination using LAH and 3 C 20 demethoxy C 20 acyloxy OCOR dechloro U.S. Pat. No. 4 294 757 prepared by acylation using acyl chlorides .

Examples of maytansinol analogs having modifications of positions other than an aromatic ring include 1 C 9 SH U.S. Pat. No. 4 424 219 prepared by the reaction of maytansinol with HS or PS 2 C 14 alkoxymethyl demethoxy CHOR U.S. Pat. No. 4 331 598 3 C 14 hydroxymethyl or acyloxymethyl CHOH or CHOAc U.S. Pat. No. 4 450 254 prepared from 4 C 15 hydroxy acyloxy U.S. Pat. No. 4 364 866 prepared by the conversion of maytansinol by 5 C 15 methoxy U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 313 946 and 4 315 929 isolated from 6 C 18 N demethyl U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 362 663 and 4 322 348 prepared by the demethylation of maytansinol by and 7 4 5 deoxy U.S. Pat. No. 4 371 533 prepared by the titanium trichloride LAH reduction of maytansinol .

The terms abnormal cell growth and proliferative disorder are used interchangeably in this application. Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms e.g. loss of contact inhibition . This includes for example the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 3 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 4 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 5 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma acute leukemia as well as head brain and neck cancer.

A therapeutic agent encompasses both a biological agent such as an antibody a peptide a protein an enzyme or a chemotherapeutic agent.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gammall and calicheamicin omegall Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamniprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above. Other anti angiogenic agents include MMP 2 matrix metalloproteinase 2 inhibitors MMP 9 matrix metalloproteinase 9 inhibitors COX II cyclooxygenase II inhibitors and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Examples of such useful matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors that can be used in combination with the present compounds compositions are described in WO 96 33172 WO 96 27583 EP 818442 EP 1004578 WO 98 07697 WO 98 03516 WO 98 34918 WO 98 34915 WO 98 33768 WO 98 30566 EP 606 046 EP 931 788 WO 90 05719 WO 99 52910 WO 99 52889 WO 99 29667 WO 99 07675 EP 945864 U.S. Pat. No. 5 863 949 U.S. Pat. No. 5 861 510 and EP 780 386 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Examples of VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors include 4 4 bromo 2 fluoroanilino 6 methoxy 7 1 methylpiperidin 4 ylmethoxy qu inazoline ZD6474 Example 2 within WO 01 32651 4 4 fluoro 2 methylindol 5 yloxy 6 methoxy 7 3 pyrrolidin 1 ylpropoxy 1 quinazoline AZD2171 Example 240 within WO 00 47212 vatalanib PTK787 WO 98 35985 and SU11248 sunitinib WO 01 60814 and compounds such as those disclosed in PCT Publication Nos. WO 97 22596 WO 97 30035 WO 97 32856 and WO 98 13354 .

Other examples of chemotherapeutic agents that can be used in combination with the present compounds include inhibitors of PI3K phosphoinositide 3 kinase such as those reported in Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 029 U.S. Pat. No. 7 037 915 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 056 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 457 U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 641 U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 588 WO 2006 046031 WO 2006 046035 WO 2006 046040 WO 2007 042806 WO 2007 042810 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 414 and WO 97 15658 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Specific examples of such PI3K inhibitors include SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis Inc. .

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation hydroxylation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof of the invention including compounds a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof produced by a process comprising contacting a compound a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term protecting group or protecting moiety refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof. For example an amine protecting group or an amino protecting moiety is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Such groups are well known in the art see for example P. Wuts and T. Greene 2007 Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Chapter 7 J. Wiley Sons NJ and exemplified by carbamates such as methyl and ethyl carbamate FMOC substituted ethyl carbamates carbamates cleaved by 1 6 elimination also termed self immolative ureas amides peptides alkyl and aryl derivatives. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . For a general description of protecting groups and their use see P. G. M. Wuts T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 2007.

The term leaving group refers to an group of charged or uncharged moiety that departs during a substitution or displacement. Such leaving groups are well known in the art and include but not limited to halogens esters alkoxy hydroxyl tosylates triflates mesylates nitriles azide carbamate disulfides thioesters thioethers and diazonium compounds.

A linking group as defined herein refers to a functional group that can form a chemical bond with a cell binding agent. Suitable chemical bonds are well known in the art and include disulfide bonds thioether bonds acid labile bonds photolabile bonds peptidase labile bonds and esterase labile bonds see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 208 020 5 475 092 6 441 163 6 716 821 6 913 748 7 276 497 7 276 499 7 368 565 7 388 026 and 7 414 073 . Preferred are disulfide bonds thioether and peptidase labile bonds. In one embodiment the linking group is selected from the group consisting of a maleimide a haloacetamido SH SSR CHSH CH Me SH C Me SH NHR CHNHR NRNH COOH a reactive ester an amino acid or a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids wherein Ris selected from phenyl nitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl dinitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl carboxynitrophenyl e.g. 3 carboxy 4 nitrophenyl pyridyl or nitropyridyl e.g. 4 nitropyridyl and Ris H or a Calkyl.

The term linking moiety as used herein refers to the remaining chemical moiety of the linking group after the linking group is covalently linked to a cell binding agent. For example when the linking group N hydroxysuccinimide ester is chemically linked with an amine group of the cell binding agent the corresponding linking moiety is C O . In another example when the linking group maleimide group is chemically linked to a thio SH group of the cell binding agent the linking moiety is

The reactive ester as used herein refers to an ester group having a leaving group that is readily displaced by an amine or a hydroxyl group. Examples of a reactive ester include but are not limited to N hydroxysuccinimde ester N hydroxy sulfosuccinimide ester nitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl ester dinitrophenyl e.g. 2 4 dinitrophenyl ester sulfo tetraflurophenyl e.g. 4 sulfo 2 3 5 6 tetrafluorophenyl ester and pentafluorophenyl ester.

As used herein a bifunctional crosslinking reagent refers to a reagent that possesses two reactive groups one of which is capable of reacting with a cell binding agent while the other one reacts with the cytotoxic compound D XH to link the two moieties together. Such bifunctional crosslinkers are well known in the art see for example Isalm and Dent in chapter 5 p 218 363 Groves Dictionaries Inc. New York 1999 . For example bifunctional crosslinking agents that enable linkage via a thioether bond include N succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC to introduce maleimido groups. Other bifunctional crosslinking agents that introduce maleimido groups on to a cell binding agent are well known in the art see US Patent Applications 2008 0050310 20050169933 available from Pierce Biotechnology Inc. P.O. Box 117 Rockland Ill. 61105 USA and include but not limited to N succinimidyl 4 maleimidomethyl cyclohexanecarboxylate SMCC N succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxy 6 amidocaproate which is a long chain analog of SMCC LC SMCC N maleimidoacetoxy succinimide ester AMAS maleimidoundecanoic acid N succinimidyl ester KMUA N maleimidopropyloxy succinimide ester BMPS maleimidobutyric acid N succinimidyl ester GMBS maleimidocaproic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester EMCS m maleimidobenzoyl N hydroxysuccinimide ester MBS N maleimidoacetoxy succinimide ester AMAS succinimidyl 6 maleimidopropionamido hexanoate SMPH N succinimidyl 4 p maleimidophenyl butyrate SMPB and N p maleimidophenyl isocyanate PMPI . Cross linking reagents comprising a haloacetyl based moiety include N succinimidyl 4 iodoacetyl aminobenzoate SIAB N succinimidyl iodoacetate SIA N succinimidyl bromoacetate SBA and N succinimidyl 3 bromoacetamido propionate SBAP succinimidyl 4 vinylsulfonyl benzoate SBSV bis maleimidopolyethyleneglycol BMPEO BM PEO BM PEO 5 maleimidovaleric acid NHS HBVS 4 4 N maleimidophenyl butyric acid hydrazide.HCl MPBH Succinimidyl 4 vinylsulfonyl benzoate SVSB dithiobis maleimidoethane DTME 1 4 bis maleimidobutane BMB 1 4 bismaleimidyl 2 3 dihydroxybutane BMDB bis maleimidohexane BMH bis maleimidoethane BMOE sulfosuccinimidyl 4 N maleimido methyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate sulfo SMCC sulfosuccinimidyl 4 iodo acetyl aminobenzoate sulfo S TAB m Maleimidobenzoyl N hydroxysulfosuccinimide ester sulfo MBS N maleimidobutryloxy sulfosuccinimde ester sulfo GMBS N maleimidocaproyloxy sulfosuccimido ester sulfo EMCS N maleimidoundecanoyloxy sulfosuccinimide ester sulfo KMUS sulfosuccinimidyl 4 p maleimidophenyl butyrate sulfo SMPB CX1 1 sulfo Mal and PEG Mal. Preferably the bifunctional crosslinking reagent is SMCC.

The term therapeutically effective amount means that amount of active compound or conjugate that elicits the desired biological response in a subject. Such response includes alleviation of the symptoms of the disease or disorder being treated prevention inhibition or a delay in the recurrence of symptom of the disease or of the disease itself an increase in the longevity of the subject compared with the absence of the treatment or prevention inhibition or delay in the progression of symptom of the disease or of the disease itself. Determination of the effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein. Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of compound I can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures and in experimental animals. The effective amount of compound or conjugate of the present invention or other therapeutic agent to be administered to a subject will depend on the stage category and status of the multiple myeloma and characteristics of the subject such as general health age sex body weight and drug tolerance. The effective amount of compound or conjugate of the present invention or other therapeutic agent to be administered will also depend on administration route and dosage form. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide plasma levels of the active compound that are sufficient to maintain desired therapeutic effects.

The present invention is directed to cytotoxic compounds e.g. compounds of structural formulas I I and II and conjugates e.g. conjugates represented by structural formula III III or IV described herein.

In one embodiment for structural formulas I I II III III or IV the definitions for the variables depicted therein are as defined below 

1. D in structural formulas I I II III III or IV is a cytotoxic agent. In a preferred embodiment D is a maytansinoid. In a more preferred embodiment D is represented by the following structural formula 

In another preferred embodiment D is represented by structural formula A1 wherein Rand Rare each independently H Calkyl or Calkyl substituted with one to six halogens. More preferably Rand Rare each independently H methyl CFor CCl. Even more preferably Rand Rare both H or methyl.

In another preferred embodiment D is represented by structural formula A1 wherein l and m are 0 n is 1 R R Rand Rare all H.

In another preferred embodiment D is represented by structural formula A1 wherein n is 0 l and m are both 1 R R Rand Rare all H Rand Rare both methyl.

In yet another preferred embodiment D is represented by structural formula A1 wherein n is 0 l and m are both 1 R R R Rand Rare all H and Ris methyl

2. X in structural formulas I II III and IV is S or Se. In one embodiment X is S. In another embodiment X is Se.

3. R and R in structural formulas I and III are each independently selected from the group consisting of H an alkyl a cycloalkyl OR and NRR wherein R Rand Rare each independently H or an alkyl. Preferably one of R and R is H and the other is H a Calkyl ORor NRR wherein R Rand Rare each independently H or Calkyl. More preferably R and R are both H.

5. Y in structural formulas I and III is a spacer. In one embodiment when p is O Y M is the non maleimide moiety of a maleimide containing bifunctional crosslinking reagent. In another embodiment Y is an alkylene a polyethylene glycol unit represented by CH CH O R R E or R W R wherein 

In one embodiment Y in structural formulas I and III is an alkylene a polyethylene glycol unit represented by CH CH O R R E or R W R wherein 

Preferably Y is a Calkylene a polyethylene glycol unit represented by CH CH O R R E or R W R wherein Ris absent or a Calkyl Ris a Calkyl W is C O NH E is cyclohexyl and n is an integer from 2 to 8.

5. M in structural formula I I and II is a linking group that can react with a cell binding agent to form a covalent bond. Preferably M is a maleimide a haloacetamido SH SSR CHSH CH Me SH C Me SH NHR CHNHR NRNH COOH a reactive ester an amino acid or a peptide comprising 2 to 10 amino acids wherein Ris selected from phenyl nitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl dinitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl carboxynitrophenyl e.g. 3 carboxy 4 nitrophenyl pyridyl or nitropyridyl e.g. 4 nitropyridyl and Ris H or a Calkyl.

In a preferred embodiment M is a maleimide haloacetamido N hydroxysuccinimde ester N hydroxy sulfosuccinimide ester nitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl ester dinitrophenyl e.g. 2 4 dinitrophenyl ester sulfo tetraflurophenyl e.g. 4 sulfo 2 3 5 6 tetrafluorophenyl ester or pentafluorophenyl ester. More preferably M is N hydroxysuccinimide ester.

6. M in structural formulas III III and IV is a linking moiety that covalently linked to the cell binding agent. Preferably M is C O 

7. For structural formulas II and IV Y is SO aryl pyridyl or C Z is an alkyl a cycloalkyl a heterocyclyl an aryl a heteroaryl or N R R wherein Ris H or a Calkyl and Ris a Calkyl.

In a preferred embodiment Y is SO and Z is optionally substituted phenyl. More preferably Z is unsubstituted phenyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is phenyl or pyridyl more preferably Y is pyridyl and Y is linked with Z through the pyridyl nitrogen atom. Z is an alkyl. Preferably Z is a Calkyl.

R R R R R R Rand Rare each independently H an alkyl an alkenyl a cycloalkyl a heteroaryl a heterocyclyl or an aryl and

In a fifth embodiment for compound of structural formula I described in the second third or fourth embodiment when p is 0 Y M is the non maleimide moiety of a maleimide containing bifunctional crosslinking reagent. In another embodiment for compound of structural formula I Y is an alkylene a polyethylene glycol unit represented by CH CH O R R E or R W R wherein 

Preferably Y is R W R wherein Ris a Calkyl W is C O NH or NHC O and R is CH CH O R . Even more preferably n is an integer from 2 to 10.

In another embodiment for compound of structural formula I described in the second third or fourth embodiment 

Y is a Calkylene a polyethylene glycol unit represented by CH CH O R R E or R W R wherein Ris absent or a Calkyl Ris a Calkyl W is C O NH E is cyclohexyl and n is an integer from 2 to 8 and

M is a maleimide a haloacetamido SH SSR CHSH CH Me SH C Me SH NHR CHNHR NRNH COOH a reactive ester an amino acid a peptide comprising 2 to 10 amino acids wherein Ris selected from phenyl nitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl dinitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl carboxynitrophenyl e.g. 3 carboxy 4 nitrophenyl pyridyl or nitropyridyl e.g. 4 nitropyridyl and Ris H or a Calkyl.

In a sixth embodiment the present invention is directed to a compound represented by structural formula II 

R R R R R R Rand Rare each independently H an alkyl an alkenyl a cycloalkyl a heteroaryl a heterocyclyl or an aryl 

In a preferred embodiment Y is SOand Z is an optionally substituted phenyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the seventh embodiment. More preferably Z is an unsubstituted phenyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is pyridyl or phenyl Z is an alkyl more preferably Y is pyridyl and Y is linked with Z through the pyridyl nitrogen. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the seventh embodiment. More preferably Z is a Calkyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is C O and Z is N R R wherein Ris H or an alkyl and Ris an alkyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the seventh embodiment. More preferably Ris H and Ris a Calkyl. Even more preferably Ris H and Ris CH CH .

In a preferred embodiment Y is SOand Z is an optionally substituted phenyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the eighth embodiment. More preferably Z is an unsubstituted phenyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is phenyl or pyridyl Z is an alkyl more preferably Y is pyridyl and Y is linked with Z through the pyridyl nitrogen. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the eighth embodiment. More preferably Z is a Calkyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is C O and Z is N R R wherein Ris H or an alkyl and Ris an alkyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the eighth embodiment. More preferably Ris H and Ris a Calkyl. Even more preferably Ris H and Ris CH CH .

In a preferred embodiment Y is SOand Z is an optionally substituted phenyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the ninth embodiment. More preferably Z is an unsubstituted phenyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is phenyl or pyridyl Z is an alkyl and more preferably Y is pyridyl and Y is linked with Z through the pyridyl nitrogen. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the ninth embodiment. More preferably Z is a Calkyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is C O and Z is N R R wherein Ris H or an alkyl and Ris an alkyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the ninth embodiment. More preferably Ris H and Ris a Calkyl. Even more preferably Ris H and Ris CH CH .

The effectiveness of the conjugates of the invention as therapeutic agents depends on the careful selection of an appropriate cell binding agent. Cell binding agents may be of any kind presently known or that become known and includes peptides and non peptides. Generally these can be antibodies especially monoclonal antibodies lymphokines hormones growth factors vitamins nutrient transport molecules such as transferrin or any other cell binding molecule or substance.

fragments of antibodies such as Fab Fab and F ab Fv minibodies diabodies tribodies tetrabodies nanobodies probodies domain bodies unibodies and the like Parham 131 2895 2902 1983 Spring et al. 113 470 478 1974 Nisonoff et al. 89 230 244 1960 Kim et al. Mol Cancer Ther. 7 2486 2497 2008 Carter Nature Revs. 6 343 357 2006 R. Kontermann S. Dubel 2001 Antibody Engineering Springer Verlag Heidelberg New York 

ankyrin repeat proteins DARPins Zahnd et al. 281 46 35167 35175 2006 Binz H. K. Amstutz P. Pluckthun A. 2005 23 1257 1268 or ankyrin like repeats proteins or synthetic peptides described for example in U.S. Patent Publication Number 20070238667 U.S. Pat. No. 7 101 675 and WO 2007 147213 WO 2007 062466 

hormones such as insulin TRH thyrotropin releasing hormone MSH melanocyte stimulating hormone steroid hormones such as androgens and estrogens 

growth factors and colony stimulating factors such as EGF TGF alpha FGF VEGF G CSF M CSF and GM CSF Burgess 5 155 158 1984 

Monoclonal antibody techniques allow for the production of extremely specific cell binding agents in the form of specific monoclonal antibodies. Particularly well known in the art are techniques for creating monoclonal antibodies produced by immunizing mice rats hamsters or any other mammal with the antigen of interest such as the intact target cell antigens isolated from the target cell whole virus attenuated whole virus and viral proteins such as viral coat proteins. Sensitized human cells can also be used. Another method of creating monoclonal antibodies is the use of phage libraries of scFv single chain variable region specifically human scFv see e.g. Griffiths et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 885 793 and 5 969 108 McCafferty et al. WO 92 01047 Liming et al. WO 99 06587 . In addition resurfaced antibodies disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 639 641 may also be used as may chimeric antiobodies and humanized antibodies. Selection of the appropriate cell binding agent is a matter of choice that depends upon the particular cell population that is to be targeted but in general human monoclonal antibodies are preferred if an appropriate one is available.

For example the monoclonal antibody MY9 is a murine IgGantibody that binds specifically to the CD33 Antigen J. D. Griffin et al 8 Leukemia Res. 521 1984 and can be used if the target cells express CD33 as in the disease of acute myelogenous leukemia AML . The cell binding agent may be any compound that can bind a cell either in a specific or non specific manner. Generally these can be antibodies especially monoclonal antibodies and antibody fragments interferons lymphokines hormones growth factors vitamins nutrient transport molecules such as transferrin or any other cell binding molecule or substance.

Where the cell binding agent is an antibody it binds to an antigen that is a polypeptide and may be a transmembrane molecule e.g. receptor or a ligand such as a growth factor. Exemplary antigens include molecules such as renin a growth hormone including human growth hormone and bovine growth hormone growth hormone releasing factor parathyroid hormone thyroid stimulating hormone lipoproteins alpha 1 antitrypsin insulin A chain insulin B chain proinsulin follicle stimulating hormone calcitonin luteinizing hormone glucagon clotting factors such as factor vmc factor IX tissue factor TF and von Willebrands factor anti clotting factors such as Protein C atrial natriuretic factor lung surfactant a plasminogen activator such as urokinase or human urine or tissue type plasminogen activator t PA bombesin thrombin hemopoietic growth factor tumor necrosis factor alpha and beta enkephalinase RANTES regulated on activation normally T cell expressed and secreted human macrophage inflammatory protein MIP 1 alpha a serum albumin such as human serum albumin Muellerian inhibiting substance relaxin A chain relaxin B chain prorelaxin mouse gonadotropin associated peptide a microbial protein such as beta lactamase DNase IgE a cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated antigen CTLA such as CTLA 4 inhibin activin vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF receptors for hormones or growth factors protein A or D rheumatoid factors a neurotrophic factor such as bone derived neurotrophic factor BDNF neurotrophin 3 4 5 or 6 NT 3 NT4 NT 5 or NT 6 or a nerve growth factor such as NGF platelet derived growth factor PDGF fibroblast growth factor such as aFGF and bFGF epidermal growth factor EGF transforming growth factor TGF such as TGF alpha and TGF beta including TGF 1 TGF 2 TGF 3 TGF 4 or TGF 5 insulin like growth factor I and II IGF I and IGF II des 1 3 IGF I brain IGF I insulin like growth factor binding proteins EpCAM GD3 FLT3 PSMA PSCA MUC1 MUC16 STEAP CEA TENB2 EphA receptors EphB receptors folate receptor FOLR1 mesothelin cripto alphabeta integrins VEGF VEGFR EGFR transferrin receptor IRTA1 IRTA2 IRTA3 IRTA4 IRTA5 CD proteins such as CD2 CD3 CD4 CD5 CD6 CD8 CD11 CD14 CD19 CD20 CD21 CD22 CD25 CD26 CD28 CD30 CD33 CD36 CD37 CD38 CD40 CD44 CD52 CD55 CD56 CD59 CD70 CD79 CD80. CD81 CD103 CD105 CD134 CD137 CD138 CD152 or an antibody which binds to one or more tumor associated antigens or cell surface receptors disclosed in US Publication No. 20080171040 or US Publication No. 20080305044 and are incorporated in their entirety by reference erythropoietin osteoinductive factors immunotoxins a bone morphogenetic protein BMP an interferon such as interferon alpha beta and gamma colony stimulating factors CSFs e.g. M CSF GM CSF and G CSF interleukins ILs e.g. IL 1 to IL 10 superoxide dismutase T cell receptors surface membrane proteins decay accelerating factor viral antigen such as for example a portion of the HIV envelope transport proteins homing receptors addressins regulatory proteins integrins such as CD11a CD11b CD11c CD18 an ICAM VLA 4 and VCAM a tumor associated antigen such as HER2 HER3 or HER4 receptor endoglin c Met 1GF1R PSGR NGEP PSMA PSCA LGR5 B7H4 TAG72 tumor associated glycoprotein 72 and fragments of any of the above listed polypeptides.

Additionally GM CSF which binds to myeloid cells can be used as a cell binding agent to diseased cells from acute myelogenous leukemia. IL 2 which binds to activated T cells can be used for prevention of transplant graft rejection for therapy and prevention of graft versus host disease and for treatment of acute T cell leukemia. MSH which binds to melanocytes can be used for the treatment of melanoma as can antibodies directed towards melanomas. Folic acid can be used to target the folate receptor expressed on ovarian and other tumors. Epidermal growth factor can be used to target squamous cancers such as lung and head and neck. Somatostatin can be used to target neuroblastomas and other tumor types.

Cancers of the breast and testes can be successfully targeted with estrogen or estrogen analogues or androgen or androgen analogues respectively as cell binding agents.

In one embodiment the antibody is selected from the group consisting of huN901 huMy9 6 huB4 huC242 trastuzumab bivatuzumab sibrotuzumab rituximab huDS6 anti mesothelin antibodies described in WO 2010 124797 such as MF T anti cripto antibodies described in US Patent Application Publication 2010 0093980 such as huB3F6 anti CD138 antibodies described in US Patent Application Publication 2007 0183971 such as huB B4 anti EGFRvIII antibodies described U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 736 644 and 7 628 986 and US Application Publication Nos. 2010 0111979 2009 0240038 2009 0175887 2009 0156790 and 2009 0155282 humanized EphA2 antibodies described in PCT IB2010 054417 and PCT IB2010 054422 such as 2H11R35R74 anti CD38 antibodies described in WO2008 047242 such as hu38SB19 anti folate receptor antibodies described in U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 307 797 61 346 595 and 61 413 172 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 033 723 e.g. huMov19 anti IGF1R antibodies described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 958 872 and 6 596 743 anti CD37 antibodies described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 045 693 filed on Mar. 11 2011 e.g. huCD37 3 anti integrin antibodies described in U.S. Application Publication No. 2006 0127407 e.g. CNTO95 and anti Her3 antibodies described in U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 370 701.

Particularly preferred antibodies are humanized monoclonal antibodies described herein. Examples include but are not limited to huN901 huMy9 6 huB4 huC242 trastuzumab bivatuzumab sibrotuzumab CNTO95 huDS6 and rituximab see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 639 641 and 5 665 357 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 424 332 which is related to U.S. Pat. No. 7 557 189 International PCT Patent Application Publication WO 02 16401 Pedersen et al. supra Roguska et al. supra Liu et al. supra Nadler et al. supra Colomer et al. 19 49 56 2001 Heider et al. 31A 2385 2391 1995 Welt et al. 12 1193 1203 1994 and Maloney et al. 90 2188 2195 1997 . Other humanized monoclonal antibodies are known in the art and can be used in connection with the invention.

In one embodiment the anti folate antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds a human folate receptor 1 wherein the antibody comprises a a heavy chain CDR1 comprising GYFMN SEQ ID NO 5 a heavy chain CDR2 comprising RIHPYDGDTFYNQXaaFXaaXaa SEQ ID NO 6 and a heavy chain CDR3 comprising YDGSRAMDY SEQ ID NO 7 and b a light chain CDR1 comprising KASQSVSFAGTSLMH SEQ ID NO 8 a light chain CDR2 comprising RASNLEA SEQ ID NO 9 and a light chain CDR3 comprising QQSREYPYT SEQ ID NO 10 wherein Xaais selected from K Q H and R Xaais selected from Q H N and R and Xaais selected from G E T S A and V. Preferably the heavy chain CDR2 sequence comprises RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG SEQ ID NO 11 .

In another embodiment the anti folate receptor antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds the human folate receptor 1 comprising the heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of

QVQLVQSGAEVVKPGASVKISCKASGYTFTGYFMNWVKQSPGQSLEWIGRIHPYDGDT FYNQKFQGKATLTVDKSSNTAHMELLSLTSEDFAVYYCTRYDGSRAMDYWGQGTTVT VSSASTKGPSVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTSGVHTFPAVL QSSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHKPSNTKVDKKVEPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPEL LGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPRE EQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLP PSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTV DKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK SEQ ID NO 1 .

In another embodiment the anti folate receptor antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof encoded by the plasmid DNA deposited with the ATCC on Apr. 7 2010 and having ATCC deposit nos. PTA 10772 and PTA 10773 or 10774.

In another embodiment the anti folate receptor antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a heavy chain variable domain at least about 90 95 99 or 100 identical to

QVQLVQSGAEVVKPGASVKISCKASGYTFTGYFMNWVKQSPGQSLEWIGRIHPYDGDT FYNQKFQGKATLTVDKSSNTAHMELLSLTSEDFAVYYCTRYDGSRAMDYWGQGTTVT VSS SEQ ID NO 2 and a light chain variable domain at least about 90 95 99 or 100 identical to

DIVLTQSPLSLAVSLGQPAIISCKASQSVSFAGTSLMHWYHQKPGQQPRLLIYRASNLEA GVPDRFSGSGSKTDFTLNISPVEAEDAATYYCQQSREYPYTFGGGTKLEIKR SEQ ID N or

DIVLTQSPLSLAVSLGQPAIISCKASQSVSFAGTSLMHWYHQKPGQQPRLLIYRASNLEA GVPDRFSGSGSKTDFTLTISPVEAEDAATYYCQQSREYPYTFGGGTKLEIKR SEQ ID NO 4 .

The present invention also provides cell binding agent cytotoxic compound conjugates comprising a cell binding agent linked to one or more cytotoxic compounds of the present invention via a variety of linkers including but not limited to disulfide linkers thioether linkers amide bonded linkers peptidase labile linkers acid labile linkers esterase labile linkers. Representative conjugates of the invention are antibody cytotoxic compound antibody fragment cytotoxic compound epidermal growth factor EGF cytotoxic compound melanocyte stimulating hormone MSH cytotoxic compound thyroid stimulating hormone TSH cytotoxic compound somatostatin cytotoxic compound folate cytotoxic compound estrogen cytotoxic compound estrogen analogue cytotoxic compound androgen cytotoxic compound and androgen analogue cytotoxic compound.

In one embodiment the present invention provides conjugates comprising a cell binding agent chemically linked to a compound of the present invention e.g. compounds of formula I I or II .

In one embodiment the cell binding agent can linked to the compound through an amine group a thio group or a carboxy group.

In a tenth embodiment the present invention is directed to a conjugate represented by structural formula III or III 

R R R R R R Rand Rare each independently H an alkyl an alkenyl a cycloalkyl a heteroaryl a heterocyclyl or an aryl and

X is S and values and preferred values for the remainder of the variables is as described above for structural formula III .

X is S and values and preferred values for the remainder of the variables are as described above for structural formula III .

In a fourteenth embodiment for conjugates of structural formula III in the eleventh twelfth or thirteen embodiment when p is 0 Y is the non maleimide and non linking group moiety of a maleimide containing bifunctional crosslinking reagent. In another embodiment for compound of structural formula III Y is an alkylene a polyethylene glycol unit represented by CH CH O R R E or R W wherein 

Preferably Y is R W R wherein Ris a Calkyl W is C O NH or NHC O and R is CH CH O R . Even more preferably n is an integer from 2 to 10.

In another embodiment for the conjugates of structural formula III described in the eleventh twelfth or thirteen embodiment 

Y is a Calkylene a polyethylene glycol unit represented by CH CH O R R E or R W R wherein Ris absent or a Calkyl Ris a Calkyl W is C O NH E is cyclohexyl and n is an integer from 2 to 8 and

In a fifteenth embodiment the present invention is directed to a conjugate represented by structural formula IV 

R R R R R R Rand Rare each independently H an alkyl an alkenyl a cycloalkyl a heteroaryl a heterocyclyl or an aryl 

X is S and values and preferred values for the remainder of the variables is as described in structural formula IV .

In a preferred embodiment Y is SOand Z is an optionally substituted phenyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the sixteenth embodiment. More preferably Z is an unsubstituted phenyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is pheny or pyridyl Z is an alkyl and preferably Y is pyridyl and Y is linked with Z through the pyridyl nitrogen. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the sixteenth embodiment. More preferably Z is a Calkyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is C O and Z is N R R wherein Ris H or an alkyl and Ris an alkyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the sixteenth embodiment. More preferably Ris H and Ris a Calkyl. Even more preferably Ris H and Ris CH CH .

X is S and values and preferred values for the remainder of the variables are as described in structural formula II .

In a preferred embodiment Y is SOand Z is an optionally substituted phenyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the seventeenth embodiment. More preferably Z is an unsubstituted phenyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is phenyl or pyridyl Z is an alkyl and more preferably Y is pyridyl and Y is linked with Z through the pyridyl nitrogen. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the seventeenth embodiment. More preferably Z is a Calkyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is C O and Z is N R R wherein Ris H or an alkyl and Ris an alkyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the seventeenth embodiment. More preferably Ris H and Ris a Calkyl. Even more preferably Ris H and Ris CH CH .

X is S and values and preferred values for the remainder of the variables is as described in structural formula II .

In a preferred embodiment Y is SOand Z is an optionally substituted phenyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the eighteenth embodiment. More preferably Z is an unsubstituted phenyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is phenyl or pyridyl Z is an alkyl and more preferably Y is pyridyl and Y is linked with Z through the pyridyl nitrogen. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the eighteenth embodiment. More preferably Z is a Calkyl.

In another preferred embodiment Y is C O and Z is N R R wherein Ris H or an alkyl and Ris an alkyl. The remainder of the variables is as described above in the eighteenth embodiment. More preferably Ris H and Ris a Calkyl. Even more preferably Ris H and Ris CH CH .

In a nineteenth embodiment the conjugate of the present invention is represented by the following structural formula 

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a cell binding agent cytotoxic agent conjugate comprising a cell binding agent covalently linked to a cytotoxic agent through a sulfoxide linker wherein the sulfoxide linker is derived from oxidation of a SH group on the cell binding agent. In one embodiment SH is from a cysteine residue of the cell binding agent.

In one embodiment L is a suitable linker group known in the art. For example L is a linker group comprising a disulfide group a thioether group an acid labile group a photolabile group a peptidase labile group an esterase labile group or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment L is derived from a bifunctional crosslinking reagent comprising a maleimide at one end of the bifunctional crosslinking reagent wherein L represents the remaining portion of the bifunctional crosslinking reagent without the terminal maleimide group. The bifunctional crosslinking reagent is a reagent that possesses two reactive groups one of which is a maleimide group that reacts with SH group on the cell binding agent while the other one reacts with the cytotoxic agent D. More specifically the bifunctional crosslinking reagent can be a bifunctional crosslinking reagent described herein. For example when the bifunctional crosslinking reagent is 1 4 bis maleimidobutane BMB and D is a thiol containing cytotoxic agent then L is represented by the following structural formula 

In one embodiment for the conjugate of structural formula X D is a maytansinoid. More preferably D is a maytansinoid represented by structural formula A1 A2 or A3 described above.

The cytototoxic compounds of the present invention e.g. compounds of structural formula I I and II can be prepared by any suitable methods. In one embodiment the compounds of structural formula I or I can be prepared by reacting a compound of structural formula V or V with an oxidant. Similarly the compounds of structural formula II can be prepared by reacting a compound of structural formula VI with an oxidant.

Any suitable oxidant capable of oxidizing a thiol ether group S to a sulfoxide group S O can be used. Examples of oxidants include but are not limited to dimethyldioxirane NaIO t BuOCl dioxiranes calcium hypochlorite Ca OCl sodium chlorite NaClO HNO optionally in the presence of a catalyst such as a AuCl catalyst O in the presence of a catalyst such as a ceric ammonium nitrate catalyst acyl nitrites sodium perborate organic peroxides e.g. ROOH wherein R is a Calkyl and HO optionally in the presence of a catalyst such as a bis acetylacetonato oxovanadium catalyst .

The oxidation reaction can be carried out in a solvent. The solvent can be an organic solvent or mixture of one or more organic solvents or a mixture of one or more organic solvents with water or an aqueous buffer. Examples of organic solvents can be used include but are not limited to dimethylacetimide DMA methanol ethanol methylene chloride acetone DMF DMSO ethyl acetate dioxane and acetonitrile.

In one embodiment the oxidation reaction can be carried out in a mixture of dimethylacetimide DMA and a succinate buffer. Preferably the succinate buffer has a pH of about 5. More preferably the reaction can be carried out in a 60 40 v v mixture of DMA and succinate buffer having a pH about 5.

The oxidation reaction can be carried out at a suitable temperature. In one embodiment the reaction is carried out at room temperature about 20 25 C. . Alternatively the oxidation reaction can be carried out at a low temperature for example at about 20 C. to about 15 C. In a preferred embodiment the oxidation reaction is carried out at about 4 C. In another alternative the reaction can be carried out at an elevated temperature for example higher than about 30 C.

Compounds of formula V V and VI can be prepared by any suitable methods. In one embodiment compounds of formula V V or VI can be prepared by reacting compound D XH with a bifunctional crosslinking reagent.

In one embodiment the bifunctional crosslinking reagent comprises a maleimide group e.g. SMCC AMAS BMPS GMBS EMCS SVSB and PEG Mal etc. and the compound of structural formula V or V can be prepared according to scheme 2.

The reaction of D XH and the bifunctional crosslinking reagent can be carried out in a suitable solvent. The solvent can be an organic solvent or mixture of one or more organic solvents or a mixture of one or more organic solvents with water or an aqueous buffer. Examples of organic solvents can be used include but are not limited to dimethylacetimide DMA methanol ethanol methylene chloride acetone DMF DMSO ethyl acetate dioxane and acetonitrile.

In one embodiment the reaction can be carried out in a mixture of dimethylacetimide DMA and a succinate buffer. Preferably the succinate buffer has a pH of about 5. More preferably the reaction can be carried out in a 60 40 v v mixture of DMA and succinate buffer having a pH about 5.

The reaction can be carried out at a suitable temperature. In one embodiment the reaction is carried out at room temperature about 20 25 C. . Alternatively the oxidation reaction can be carried out at a low temperature for example at about 20 C. to about 15 C. In another alternative the reaction can be carried out at an elevated temperature for example higher than about 30 C.

The conjugates of the present invention can be prepared by reacting a cell binding agent with a compound of the present invention e.g. compounds of structural formula I and II to provide a mixture comprising a cell binding agent cytotoxic compound conjugate the unreacted compound and reaction side products. The mixture is optionally purified to provide a purified conjugate.

In another embodiment the conjugates of the present invention can be prepared through a conjugate oxidation reaction by treating a conjugates of structural formula VII VII or VIII with an oxidant see Scheme 3 . The values and preferred values for variables depicted in structural formulas VII VII and VIII are as described above for structural formulas III III and IV respectively.

The conjugate of structural formula X can be prepared by reacting conjugate comprising a thioether linking group represented by structural formula XI with an oxidant.

For the conjugate oxidation described above any suitable oxidant capable of converting a thiol group to a sulfoxide group can be used. Examples of oxidant include but are not limited to NaIO t BuOCl dioxiranes calcium hypochlorite Ca OCl sodium chlorite NaClO HNO optionally in the presence of a AuCl catalyst O in the presence of a ceric ammonium nitrate catalyst acyl nitrites sodium perborate organic peroxides e.g. ROOH wherein R is a Calkyl and HO optionally in the presence of a bis acetylacetonato oxovanadium catalyst . Preferably the oxidant is HOwith a bis acetylacetonato oxovanadium catalyst.

The conjugate oxidation reaction can be carried out at a suitable temperature. In one embodiment the reaction can be carried out at room temperature about 20 25 C. . Alternatively the oxidation reaction can be carried out at a low temperature for example at about 20 C. to about 15 C. In another alternative the reaction can be carried out at an elevated temperature for example higher than about 30 C. Preferably the oxidation reaction is carried out at about 4 C. More preferably the oxidation reaction is carried out at about 4 C. for about 1 12 hours.

In another embodiment the mixture of the conjugate oxidation reaction is purified immediately after the reaction e.g. for about 1 12 hours to remove excess oxidant. Any suitable purification method can be used. In one embodiment the purification method is as described herein. In another embodiment the purification method is non absorptive chromatography and or dialysis. Preferably the purification method is non absorptive chromatography with G25 desalting resin and or dialysis at 4 C.

Any suitable purification methods can be used for purifying the mixture comprising the conjugates of the present invention. In one embodiment the mixture can be purified using tangential flow filtration TFF e.g. a membrane based tangential flow filtration process non adsorptive chromatography adsorptive chromatography adsorptive filtration or selective precipitation or any other suitable purification process as well as combinations thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that purification after the conjugation step enables the isolation of a stable conjugate comprising the cell binding agent chemically coupled to the cytotoxic agent.

Any suitable TFF systems may be utilized for purification including a Pellicon type system Millipore Billerica Mass. a Sartocon Cassette system Sartorius AG Edgewood N.Y. and a Centrasette type system Pall Corp. East Hills N.Y. .

Any suitable adsorptive chromatography resin may be utilized for purification. Preferred adsorptive chromatography resins include hydroxyapatite chromatography hydrophobic charge induction chromatography HCIC hydrophobic interaction chromatography HIC ion exchange chromatography mixed mode ion exchange chromatography immobilized metal affinity chromatography IMAC dye ligand chromatography affinity chromatography reversed phase chromatography and combinations thereof. Examples of suitable hydroxyapatite resins include ceramic hydroxyapatite CHT Type I and Type II Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. HA Ultrogel hydroxyapatite Pall Corp. East Hills N.Y. and ceramic fluoroapatite CFT Type I and Type II Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. . An example of a suitable HCIC resin is MEP Hypercel resin Pall Corp. East Hills N.Y. . Examples of suitable HIC resins include Butyl Sepharose Hexyl Sepaharose Phenyl Sepharose and Octyl Sepharose resins all from GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. as well as Macro prep Methyl and Macro Prep t Butyl resins Biorad Laboratories Hercules Calif. . Examples of suitable ion exchange resins include SP Sepharose CM Sepharose and Q Sepharose resins all from GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. and Unosphere S resin Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. . Examples of suitable mixed mode ion exchangers include Bakerbond ABx resin J T Baker Phillipsburg N.J. . Examples of suitable IMAC resins include Chelating Sepharose resin GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. and Profinity IMAC resin Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. . Examples of suitable dye ligand resins include Blue Sepharose resin GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. and Affi gel Blue resin Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. . Examples of suitable affinity resins include Protein A Sepharose resin e.g. MabSelect GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. where the cell binding agent is an antibody and lectin affinity resins e.g. Lentil Lectin Sepharose resin GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. where the cell binding agent bears appropriate lectin binding sites. Alternatively an antibody specific to the cell binding agent may be used. Such an antibody can be immobilized to for instance Sepharose 4 Fast Flow resin GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. . Examples of suitable reversed phase resins include C4 C8 and C18 resins Grace Vydac Hesperia Calif. .

Any suitable non adsorptive chromatography resin may be utilized for purification. Examples of suitable non adsorptive chromatography resins include but are not limited to SEPHADEX G 25 G 50 G 100 SEPHACRYL resins e.g. S 200 and S 300 SUPERDEX resins e.g. SUPERDEX 75 and SUPERDEX 200 BIO GEL resins e.g. P 6 P 10 P 30 P 60 and P 100 and others known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The cytotoxic compounds and cell binding agent cytotoxic agent conjugates of the invention can be evaluated for their ability to suppress proliferation of various cancer cell lines in vitro. For example cell lines such as the squamous cell carcinomal line A431 the lung carcinoma line PC9 the human colon carcinoma line COLO 205 the rhabdomyosarcoma cell line RH 30 and the multiple myeloma cell line MOLP 8 can be used for the assessment of cytotoxicity of these compounds and conjugates. Cells to be evaluated can be exposed to the compounds or conjugates for 1 5 days and the surviving fractions of cells measured in direct assays by known methods. ICvalues can then be calculated from the results of the assays. Examples of in vitro potency and target specificity of antibody cytotoxic agent conjugates of the present invention are shown in .

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising novel cytotoxic compounds described herein e.g. compounds of structural formula I I and II derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising novel cytotoxic compounds described herein e.g. compounds of structural formula I I and II derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second therapeutic agent. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human . The present compositions are also useful for treating depression anxiety stress phobias panic dysphoria psychiatric disorders pain and inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

In one embodiment the present invention includes a composition or a pharmaceutical composition comprising the conjugates described herein e.g. conjugates of structural formula III III or IV wherein the average molar ratio of the cytotoxic agent to the cell binding agent of the conjugates in the composition is about 1 to about 10 about 2 to about 7 about 3 to about 5 about 2.5 to about 4.5 e.g. about 2.5 about 2.6 about 2.7 about 2.8 about 2.9 about 3.0 about 3.1 about 3.3 about 3.4 about 3.5 about 3.6 about 3.7 about 3.8 about 3.9 about 4.0 about 4.1 about 4.2 about 4.3 about 4.4 about 4.5 about 3.0 to about 4.0 about 3.2 to about 4.2 about 4.5 to 5.5 e.g. about 4.5 about 4.6 about 4.7 about 4.8 about 4.9 about 5.0 about 5.1 about 5.2 about 5.3 about 5.4 about 5.5 .

The present invention also includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of cytotoxic compounds described herein e.g. compounds of structural formula I I and II derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof e.g. conjugates of structural formula III III or IV and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second therapeutic agent.

The present invention also provides methods of treatment comprising administering to a subject in need of treatment a therapeutically effective amount of any of the conjugates described above.

Similarly the present invention provides a method for inducing cell death in selected cell populations comprising contacting target cells or tissue containing target cells with an effective amount of a cell binding agent cytotoxic compound conjugate of the present invention a salt e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof. The target cells are cells to which the cell binding agent can bind.

If desired other active agents such as other anti tumor agents may be administered along with the conjugate.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents and excipients are well known and can be determined by those of ordinary skill in the art as the clinical situation warrants.

Examples of suitable carriers diluents and or excipients include 1 Dulbecco s phosphate buffered saline pH about 7.4 containing or not containing about 1 mg ml to 25 mg ml human serum albumin 2 0.9 saline 0.9 w v NaCl and 3 5 w v dextrose and may also contain an antioxidant such as tryptamine and a stabilizing agent such as Tween 20.

The method for inducing cell death in selected cell populations can be practiced in vitro in vivo or ex vivo.

Examples of in vitro uses include treatments of autologous bone marrow prior to their transplant into the same patient in order to kill diseased or malignant cells treatments of bone marrow prior to their transplantation in order to kill competent T cells and prevent graft versus host disease GVHD treatments of cell cultures in order to kill all cells except for desired variants that do not express the target antigen or to kill variants that express undesired antigen.

The conditions of non clinical in vitro use are readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Examples of clinical ex vivo use are to remove tumor cells or lymphoid cells from bone marrow prior to autologous transplantation in cancer treatment or in treatment of autoimmune disease or to remove T cells and other lymphoid cells from autologous or allogenic bone marrow or tissue prior to transplant in order to prevent GVHD. Treatment can be carried out as follows. Bone marrow is harvested from the patient or other individual and then incubated in medium containing serum to which is added the cytotoxic agent of the invention concentrations range from about 10 M to 1 pM for about 30 minutes to about 48 hours at about 37 C. The exact conditions of concentration and time of incubation i.e. the dose are readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. After incubation the bone marrow cells are washed with medium containing serum and returned to the patient intravenously according to known methods. In circumstances where the patient receives other treatment such as a course of ablative chemotherapy or total body irradiation between the time of harvest of the marrow and reinfusion of the treated cells the treated marrow cells are stored frozen in liquid nitrogen using standard medical equipment.

For clinical in vivo use the cytotoxic conjugate of the invention will be supplied as a solution or a lyophilized powder that are tested for sterility and for endotoxin levels. Examples of suitable protocols of conjugate administration are as follows. Conjugates are given weekly for 4 weeks as an intravenous bolus each week. Bolus doses are given in 50 to 1000 ml of normal saline to which 5 to 10 ml of human serum albumin can be added. Dosages will be 10 g to 2000 mg per administration intravenously range of 100 ng to 20 mg kg per day . After four weeks of treatment the patient can continue to receive treatment on a weekly basis. Specific clinical protocols with regard to route of administration excipients diluents dosages times etc. can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art as the clinical situation warrants.

Examples of medical conditions that can be treated according to the in vivo or ex vivo methods of inducing cell death in selected cell populations include malignancy of any type including for example cancer of the lung small cell and non small cell breast colon brain prostate kidney pancreas ovary head and neck skin melanoma Merkel cell carcinoma glioblastoma neuroblastoma and cancers of lymphatic organs autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis graft rejections such as renal transplant rejection liver transplant rejection lung transplant rejection cardiac transplant rejection and bone marrow transplant rejection graft versus host disease viral infections such as CMV infection HIV infection AIDS etc. and parasite infections such as giardiasis amoebiasis schistosomiasis and others as determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Cancer therapies and their dosages routes of administration and recommended usage are known in the art and have been described in such literature as the Physician s Desk Reference PDR . The PDR discloses dosages of the agents that have been used in treatment of various cancers. The dosing regimen and dosages of these aforementioned chemotherapeutic drugs that are therapeutically effective will depend on the particular cancer being treated the extent of the disease and other factors familiar to the physician of skill in the art and can be determined by the physician. The contents of the PDR are expressly incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. One of skill in the art can review the PDR using one or more of the following parameters to determine dosing regimen and dosages of the chemotherapeutic agents and conjugates that can be used in accordance with the teachings of this invention. These parameters include 

One skilled in the art of cytotoxic compounds will readily understand that each of the cytotoxic compound described herein can be modified in such a manner that the resulting compound still retains the specificity and or activity of the starting compound. The skilled artisan will also understand that many of these compounds can be used in place of the cytotoxic agents described herein. Thus the cytotoxic agents of the present invention include analogues and derivatives of the compounds described herein.

All references cited herein and in the examples that follow are expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties.

A thiol containing cytotoxic agent e.g. D SH is reacted with a maleimide containing heterobifunctional linker e.g. AMAS BMPS GMBS EMCS SBSV PEG Mal in a mixture of dimethylacetimide DMA and 50 mM succinate buffer pH 5 60 40 DMA buffer by volume for 5 min to generate a succinimidyl thioether. The mixture is then treated with mild oxidant e.g. hydrogen peroxide dimethyldioxirane at 4 C. which selectively converts thioether into sulfoxide and not the sulfone. The mixture is then added to an antibody solution buffered at pH about 6 9 in a 3 7 fold molar excess based on linker concentration and the reaction was allowed to proceed overnight to generate the sulfoxide linker conjugate.

An antibody cytotoxic agent conjugate comprising a thioether group preferably a succinimidyl thioether group is treated at pH 7.4 with 3 100 mole of an oxidant e.g. NaIO t BuOCl dioxiranes calcium hypochlorite Ca OCl sodium chlorite NaClO HNO3 and a AuCl catalyst Oand ceric ammonium nitrate catalyst acyl nitrites sodium perborate and organic peroxides ROOH and HOwith a bis acetylacetonato oxovanadium catalyst . Conjugate oxidation is done at 4 C. for 1 12 hours followed by immediate removal of excess oxidant using G25 desalting resin and or dialysis.

Conjugates made by method 1 or 2 can be assayed for extent of thioether oxidation to sulfoxide by kinetic trapping of the released sulfenic acid intermediate. An exemplary procedure for kinetic trapping is described below in Example 2.

The invention will now be illustrated by reference to non limiting examples. Unless otherwise stated all percents ratios parts etc. are by weight. Hydrogen peroxide 30 w v in water N ethyl maleimide and 5 5 dimethyl 1 3 cyclohexanedione dimedone were purchased from Sigma. Antibody drug conjugates Ab SMCC DM1 Ab PEG mal DM1 Ab PEG mal DM4 were prepared according to published methods Kovtun et al 2010 70 2528 37 . A Bruker ESQUIRE 3000 ion trap mass spectrometer was used to obtain mass spectra for all reaction products and was used in line with a Water 2695 series HPLC. Samples were analyzed using the analytical reverse phase HPLC method described below 

chB38.1 SMCC DM1 9 M in PBS pH 7.4 was treated with 1 M hydrogen peroxide and 5 mole bis acetylacetonato oxovanadium catalyst at 4 C. for 4 h. To remove excess oxidant gel fitration of the conjugate into a G25 Sephadex GE healthcare column equilibrated in 10 mM sodium citrate pH 5.5 followed by dialysis 2 exchanges in a slide a lyzer cassette was carried out. The oxidized conjugate was assayed for maytansine per antibody ratio MAR monomer and unconjugated free maytansinoid and the sample was identical to the parent conjugate 3.7 MAR 0.1 free maytansinoid 95 monomer .

In Vitro Cytotoxicity Assays Comparing Activity of Conjugate 1 Ab SMCC DM1 and Selectively Oxidized Conjugate 2

Confluent T75 flasks of PC9 cells for anti EPCAM SMCC DM1 and A431 cells for anti EGFR SMCC DM1 grown in growth medium DMEM Invitrogen containing 10 fetal bovine serum ATCC 2 mM L glutamine Invitrogen and penicillin streptomycin Invitrogen were detached with 0.25 tryspin EDTA Invitrogen stained with trypan blue Invitrogen and the number of live cells was counted on a hemacytometer. Between 1000 and 2000 cells well were seeded in 96 well flat bottom tissue culture plates Falcon in growth media and allowed to adhere overnight at 37 C. All cells were obtained from ATCC. After 1 day cells were continuously exposed to anti EpCAM or anti EGFR antibody conjugates 1 and 2 for 96 hr at 37 C. at concentrations of 2 pM to 30 nM 3 fold serial dilutions . Blocking controls were performed in parallel where cells were treated for 1 hr at 37 C. with 1 M unconjugated antibody in fresh growth media prior to conjugate exposure. Each test condition was performed in triplicate. After conjugate treatment 20 l WST 8 reagent Dojindo Molecular was added to each well and incubated at 37 C. for 1 5 h for color development. The plate absorbance was measured at 450 nm and used to calculate the surviving cell fraction compared with untreated control cells . The ICvalues were estimated from plots of conjugate concentration M versus surviving cell fraction. Cytotoxicity data shown in . shows that anti EGFR antibody conjugate IgG1 sulfoxide DM1 conjugate 2 is 2 fold more potent than the parent IgG1 SMCC DM1 conjugate 1. shows that anti EpCAM SMCC sulfoxide DM1 conjugate 2 is 3 fold more potent than the parent anti EpCAM SMCC DM1 conjugate 1. Preincubation of PC9 cells with 1 M unconjugated anti EpCAM antibody to fully block antigen binding sites leads to significant reduction in cell killing activity for conjugates 1 and 2. Therefore the data suggest that the additional activity observed for conjugate 2 is antigen dependent.

Conjugates made by method 1 or 2 were assayed for extent of thioether oxidation to sulfoxide by kinetic trapping of the released sulfenic acid intermediate. Sulfoxide linker conjugate 2 36 M was incubated with 10 mM dimedone 12 h 37 C. PBS pH 7.4 . Free maytansinoid species were then acetone extracted and identified by LC MS and quantified by integrated area at 252 nm and comparison to a standard curve . Presence of maytansinoid dimedone adduct i.e. DM1 dimedone was evidence of oxidation of the thioether ether linkage selectively to the sulfoxide. Data shown in .

Ab PEG mal DM1 and Ab PEG mal DM4 36 M average of 4 maytansinoids per antibody with no detectable unconjugated maytansinoid was treated with hydrogen peroxide 0.1 M 50 M final concentration at pH 7.4 PBS for 12 h at 37 C. Increase in free maytansinoids was quantified using a mixed mode chromatography method Fleming et al 2005 340 272 . Briefly a HISEP shielded hydrophobic phase column 5 m particle size 4.6 250 mm length Supelco Bellefonte Pa. USA was used for analyzing Ab DM1 conjugates. Detection was at 252 and 280 nm extracted from PDA spectra . The flow rate was 0.7 ml min. Mobile phase A consisted of 100 mM ammonium acetate pH 7.0 . Mobile phase B was 100 acetonitrile. The column was equilibrated at 25 B followed by a linear gradient over 25 min to 40 B after sample injection. Intact conjugate elutes between 2 5 min while released maytansinoid is detected between 10 25 min. Data shown in .

10 M DM1 NEM or DM4 NEM 95 PBS pH 7.4 5 dimethylacetamide were treated at room temperature with 1 mM hydrogen peroxide and reaction aliquots 30 l were injected directly onto RP HPLC at various time points from 0 400 min. Maytansinoid products were quantified by measuring integrated area under the curve at 252 nm and comparison to a calibration curve with known standards. Kinetic data shown in .

8 M DM1 SO NEM or DM4 SO NEM 95 PBS pH 7.4 5 dimethylacetamide were incubated at 37 C. and reaction aliquots 50 l were injected directly onto RP HPLC at various time points from 0 12 h. Maytansinoid products were quantified by measuring integrated area under the curve at 252 nm and comparison to a calibration curve with known standards. Kinetic data shown in .

Thioether formed with hindered thiol DM4 oxidizes 2 fold slower and undergoes sulfoxide elimination 2 fold slower than corresponding thioether formed from unhindered DM1 thiol . The observation that Ab PEG4 mal DM4 is 5 fold more resistant to oxidation promoted free maytansinoid release than Ab PEG4 mal DM1 is consistent with the observed rates of sulfoxide formation and beta elimination.

