---

title: Microbial growth enhancement from a dry film additive
abstract: A hyperbranched polymer based on one or more repeating units of an ABtype monomer, wherein A and B are functional groups and x is greater than or equal to 2, wherein A reacts with, or substantially reacts with, B, wherein B is fractionally functionlized with a plurality of functional groups comprising a first functional group comprising a C-Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group (C═O) via an ester linkage, a second functional group comprising a partially fluorinated or perfluorinated C-Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group (C═O) via an ester linkage, and a third functional group comprising substantially one of a stabilized radical source attached to the repeating unit via a C-Ctether, or a 5 to 8 member chloroamide heterocycle of carbon and nitrogen that is attached to the repeating unit via a C-Ctether.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09428620&OS=09428620&RS=09428620
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09428620
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150105
---
This application is a divisional of co pending application Ser. No. 13 926 097 filed in the name of A. Williams and J. Orlicki on Jun. 25 2013. The complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to additives that promote the growth of microorganisms.

As the realm of genetically modified microorganisms increases the potential applications for promoting microbial growth similarly increase. A large array of important products may soon be produced through microbial means.

At least some embodiments of the present invention relate to a hyperbranched polymer based on one or more repeating units of an ABtype monomer wherein A and B are functional groups and x is greater than or equal to 2 and wherein the A functional group reacts with or substantially reacts with the B functional group and wherein B is fractionally functionlized with a plurality of functional groups wherein the plurality of functional groups comprise a first functional group comprising a C Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group C O via an ester linkage a second functional group comprising a partially fluorinated or perfluorinated C Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group C O via an ester linkage and a third functional group comprising substantially one of a a stabilized radical source attached to the repeating unit via a C Ctether wherein the stabilized radical source is a 5 or 6 member heterocycle of carbon and nitrogen which may be substituted with alkyl groups alpha to the stabilized radical that sterically stabilizes the oxygen free radical or b a 5 to 8 member chloroamide heterocycle of carbon and nitrogen that is attached to the repeating unit via a C Ctether.

At least some embodiments of the present invention relate to a hyperbranched polymer that can advantageously be used to enhance microorganism growth atop a substrate wherein the hyperbranched polymer is based on one or more repeating units of the following structure 

wherein one or more of Rand Ris one of a bond to another repeating unit or represents the fractional functionalization of the hyperbranched polymer by a plurality of functional groups wherein the plurality of functional groups comprise a first functional group comprising a C Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group C O via an ester linkage a second functional group comprising a partially fluorinated or perfluorinated C Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group C O via an ester linkage and a third functional group comprising substantially one of a a stabilized radical source attached to the repeating unit via a C Ctether wherein the stabilized radical source is a 5 or 6 member heterocycle of carbon and nitrogen which may be substituted with alkyl groups alpha to the stabilized radical that sterically stabilizes the oxygen free radical or b a 5 to 8 member chloroamide heterocycle of carbon and nitrogen that is attached to the repeating unit via a C Ctether.

At least some embodiments of the present invention relate to a method of enhancing microorganism growth atop a substrate comprising forming a hyperbranched polymer based on one or more repeating units of the following formula 

wherein one of either Ror Ris one of a bond to another repeating unit or represents the fractional functionalization of the hyperbranched polymer by a plurality of functional groups wherein the plurality of functional groups comprises a first functional group comprising a C Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group C O via an ester linkage a second functional group comprising a partially fluorinated or perfluorinated C Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group C O via an ester linkage and a third functional group comprising substantially one of a a stabilized radical source attached to the repeating unit via a C Ctether wherein the stabilized radical source is a 5 or 6 member heterocycle of carbon and nitrogen which may be substituted with alkyl groups alpha to the stabilized radical that sterically stabilizes the oxygen free radical or b a 5 to 8 member chloroamide heterocycle of carbon and nitrogen that is attached to the repeating unit via a C Ctether mixing the hyperbranched polymer with a solution to form a first mixture curing the first mixture to form a substrate wherein the hyperbranched polymer spontaneously segregates to an air interface of the substrate and introducing one or more microorganisms atop the surface of the substrate wherein the hyperbranched polymer enhances microorganism growth at the air interface of the substrate.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures. The figures are not drawn to scale and may be simplified for clarity. It is contemplated that elements and features of one embodiment may be beneficially incorporated in other embodiments without further recitation.

Embodiments of the present invention include additives that promote the growth of microorganisms. Additives in accordance with embodiments described herein advantageously promote the growth of microorganisms on a wide variety of surfaces including surfaces that may be unsuitable for microorganism growth without the additive. Additives in accordance with embodiments described herein advantageously spontaneously migrate to the upper surface air interface of a substrate to infuse the substrate with a high concentration of the additive at the air interface. Additives in accordance with embodiments described herein may advantageously be used in producing a substrate thereby providing the substrate with inherent microorganism growth properties. Alternatively additives in accordance with embodiments described herein may advantageously be incorporated into materials suitable for coating a substrate. Furthermore additives in accordance with embodiments described herein advantageously provide an increase of about 10 to about 60 in the growth of Gram positive bacteria Gram negative bacteria and fungi.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a hyperbranched polymer that can advantageously be used to modify a substrate to enhance microorganism growth atop the substrate. In some embodiments the hyperbranched polymer is based on one or more repeating units of an ABtype monomer. In some embodiments A and B are functional groups and x is greater than or equal to 2. In some embodiments the A functional group reacts with or substantially reacts with only the B functional group. In some embodiments the A functional group can be one of for example an acid an amine a thiol or a terminal alkyne. In some embodiments the B functional group can be one of for example an alcohol an acrylate or methacrylate Michael addition partner or a vinyl group or an azide. It is appreciated that the class of reactive groups that comprise click chemistry partners would be especially suitable for this approach whereby efficient and orthogonal A B coupling pairs have been identified. Some examples were presented above thiol ene alkyne azide but the list is illustrative only and is not exhaustive nor limiting.

In some embodiments B is fractionally functionlized with a plurality of functional groups described below. One exemplary structure obtained from the polymerization of an ABtype monomer and its specific functionalization with a plurality of functional groups is as follows 

The structure above shows a repeat unit of the hyperbranched polymer with two functional groups Rand R. The particle bonded to the repeat unit at the left represents either the focal point of a pseudo dendron or a bond to a core molecule.

In some embodiments one or more of Rand Ris one of a bond to another repeating unit or represents the fractional functionalization of the hyperbranched polymer by a plurality of functional groups. The plurality of functional groups comprises a first functional group a second functional group and a third functional group described below and modified onto the polymer chain end groups detailed herein.

In some embodiments the first functional group is a C Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group C O via an ester linkage. For example the first functional group may be an alkyl ester having the formula C O CH. In some embodiments the first functional group is an aliphatic ester.

In some embodiments the second functional group is a partially fluorinated or perfluorinated C Calkyl chain attached to the repeating unit through a carbonyl group C O . For example the second functional group may be an alkyl ester having the formula C O CF or C O CHCF. It is recognized that other linkages may be employed to attach functional groups to the hyperbranched polymer core dictated by the relative chemistries of both the polymer core and the desired functional group. Linkages in addition to the shown esters include but are not limited to ethers urethanes amines amides ureas and siloxanes.

In some embodiments the first functional group is lauric ester having the formula C O CH CH. The lauric ester group advantageously increases the solubility of the repeating unit above in most organic solvents. In some embodiments the second functional goup is perfluorinated octyl ester having the formula C O CF CF. The perfluorinated octyl ester advantageously allows the repeating unit above to segregate to the surface of a substrate or film. In the most advantageous embodiment Ris a mixture of both aliphatic ester and perfluorinated octyl ester to maximize both solubility and propensity to surface segregate. The incorporation of the lauric ester group and the perfluorinated octyl ester is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 560 520 incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments the third functional group is a stabilized radical source. In some embodiments the stabilized radical source is for example 2 2 6 6 Tetramethyl 1 piperidinyloxy free radical TEMPO or an N proxyl radical. In some embodiments the stabilized radical source can be attached to the repeating unit through a C Ctether. In some embodiments the stabilized radical source incorporates a 5 or 6 member heterocycle of carbon and nitrogen which may be substituted with alkyl groups alpha to the stabilized radical that sterically stabilizes the oxygen free radical. In embodiments where the hyperbranched polymer comprises substantially the stabilized radical source the hyperbranched polymer is referred to herein as a free radical enhancer.

In some embodiments the third functional group is a 3 carboxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 1 pyrrolidinyloxy free radical refered to as 3 carboxy proxyl free radical having the formula CHNO. The 3 carboxy proxyl free radical advantageously promotes the growth of bacterial microorganisms broadly including classes of organisms such as gram positive gram negative and fungal organisms. Specific examples include MRSA and

Alternatively in some embodiments the third functional group is a 5 to 8 member chloroamide heterocycle of carbon and nitrogen that is attached to the repeating unit via a C Ctether. In some embodiments the third functional group is dichloro s triazinetrione referred to as dichloroisocyanurate having the formula CClNO. It is recognized that this structure stabilizes oxidative chlorine species but in this instance the dichloroisocyanurate advantageously leads to the growth of bacterial microorganisms such as or or or the like. In embodiments where the third functional group is a 5 to 8 member chloramide heterocycle attached to the repeating unit via a C Ctether the hyperbranched polymer is referred to herein as a N chloroamide enhancer.

In some embodiments the hyperbranched polymer comprises about 10 mole to about 30 mole of the lauric ester about 10 mole to about 25 mole of the perfluorinated octyl ester group and about 50 mole to about 75 mole of the 3 carboxy proxyl free radical. In some embodiments the hyperbranched polymer comprises about 10 mole to about 30 mole of the lauric ester about 10 mole to about 25 mole of the perfluorinated octyl ester group and about 50 mole to about 75 mole of the dichloroisocyanurate group.

In order to synthesize the free radical enhancer the intermediate is mixed with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC and hydroxy benzotriazole HOBt to form the hyperbranched polymer having the one or more repeating units depicted above. As described above the hyperbranched polymer comprises chain ends R representing about 20 mole lauric ester about 20 mole perfluorinated octyl ester and about 60 mole 3 carboxy proxyl free radical .

Alternatively in order to synthesize the N chloroamide enhancer intermediate is reacted with chloroacetyl chloride triethylamine dichloromethane and nitrogen N2 to form intermediate . As depicted in the chain ends R in intermediate represent about 20 mole lauric ester 110 about 20 mole perfluorinated octyl ester and about 60 mole chloromethylene . Intermediate is then reacted with sodium dichloroisocyanurate to form the hyperbranched polymer having one or more repeating units as depicted above. As described above the hyperbranched polymer comprises chain ends R representing about 20 mole lauric ester about 20 mole perfluorinated octyl ester and about 60 mole dichloroisocyanurate .

The inventors have observed that the hyperbranched polymer unexpectedly enhances the growth of bacterial microorganisms. While a typical additive with highly efficient antimicrobial function would reduce microbial growth by about 90 to about 99 in the current instance the hyperbranched polymer caused the improved growth of all organisms deposited on the substrate surface. For example the impact on growth rates for Gram Gram and organisms of about 2 additive in a thermoplastic polyurethane film is shown below in Table 1.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof.

