---

title: Method and apparatus for automatically creating message
abstract: A method and an apparatus for automatically creating a message in an electronic device are provided. The method includes detecting at least one current situation of a user of the electronic device and automatically creating a message comprising content reflecting the at least one current situation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09615229&OS=09615229&RS=09615229
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09615229
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150924
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Sep. 24 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0127427 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method and an apparatus for automatically creating a message in an electronic device.

Electronic devices enabling wireless communication or wired communication can accept or reject incoming calls. When rejecting the incoming calls the electronic devices can transmit call rejection messages to senders.

The electronic device can for example select one of call rejection messages previously stored in the electronic device and transmit the selected call rejection message or transmit a call rejection message directly written by a user. The call rejection message may be added or revised by the user.

When an electronic device transmits a call rejection message to a sender the electronic device may select by a user one of messages previously stored in the electronic device and transmit the selected message or transmit a message directly written by the user. For example when the selected and transmitted message among the previously stored messages is a message not suitable to a current situation of the user there is an inconvenience that the user must additionally write a message for additional description to transmit the message.

Therefore a need exists for a message automatic creation method and apparatus for automatically creating various messages reflecting a current situation of a user.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a message automatic creation method and apparatus for automatically creating various messages reflecting a current situation of a user.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of creating a message in an electronic device is provided. The method includes detecting at least one current situation of a user of the electronic device and automatically creating the message comprising content reflecting the at least one current situation.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a communication module and a processor configured to control the communication module detect at least one current situation of a user of the electronic device and create a message comprising content automatically reflecting the at least one current situation.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

The expressions comprise or may comprise usable in various embodiments of the present disclosure indicate the existence of disclosed corresponding functions operations or constituent elements and do not limit additional one or more functions operations or constituent elements. In addition in various embodiments of the present disclosure the terms comprise or have are to designate the existence of features numerals operations constituent elements components which are stated in the specification or a combination of them and should be understood that they are not to previously exclude the possibility of existence or addition of one or more other features numerals operations constituent elements components or combinations of them.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the expressions such as or include any and all combinations of words enumerated together. For example A or B may include A or may include B or may include all A and B. The expressions 1st 2nd first or second used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may modify various constituent elements of various embodiments of the present disclosure but do not intend to limit the corresponding constituent elements. For example the expressions do not limit the order and or importance of the corresponding constituent elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish one constituent element from another constituent element. For example all of a first user device and a second user device are user devices and represent different user devices. For example a first constituent element may be named as a second constituent element without departing from the scope of right of the present disclosure. Likely even a second constituent element may be named as a first constituent element.

When it is mentioned that any constituent element is connected or accessed to another constituent element it should be understood that the any constituent element may be directly connected or accessed to the another constituent element but a third constituent element may also exist between the any constituent element and the another constituent element. On the other hand when it is mentioned that any constituent element is directly connected or directly accessed to another constituent element it should be understood that no third constituent element exists between the any constituent element and the another constituent element.

The terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are used to just describe specific embodiments and do not intend to limit various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technological or scientific terms have the same meaning as those commonly understood by a person having ordinary knowledge in the art to which various embodiments of the present disclosure belong. Terms as defined in a general dictionary should be interpreted as meanings consistent with the contextual meanings of a related technology and are not interpreted as ideal or excessively formal meanings unless defined clearly in various embodiments of the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device including a telecommunication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a portable multimedia player PMP a moving picture experts group MPEG audio layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical instrument a camera or a wearable device e.g. a head mounted display HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an appcessory an electronic tattoo a smart watch and the like .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a smart home appliance having a telecommunication function. The smart home appliance for example the electronic device may include at least one of a television TV a digital versatile disc DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic locking system a camcorder or an electronic frame.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of various medical instruments e.g. magnetic resonance angiography MRA magnetic resonance imaging MRI computerized tomography CT a moving camera and an ultrasonic machine a navigation device a global positioning system GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR a car infotainment device an electronic equipment for ship e.g. a navigation device for ship and a gyrocompass avionics a security instrument a head unit for vehicles an industrial or home robot an automatic teller s machine ATM of a financial institution or a point of sales POS of a shop.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of one part of furniture or building structure including a telecommunication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector or various metering instruments e.g. tap water electricity gas or radio wave metering instrument . The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one of the aforementioned various devices or a combination of two or more of them. In addition the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. In addition it is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned instruments.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described below with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may denote a person who uses the electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligent electronic device which uses the electronic device.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a message interface .

The communication interface may for example include a call receiving and transmitting unit not shown . The call receiving and transmitting unit a communication module capable of receiving or transmitting a voice call may use a traditional circuit scheme.

In addition the call receiving and transmitting unit may use a data connection scheme in which a voice call is possible with an Internet telephone or a voice over Internet protocol VoIP telephone that is a voice packet network. Not only a hardware construction but also a user interface UI user experience UX for receiving a user input may be included in one part of the call receiving and transmitting unit.

The message interface may be as a constituent element for creating a call rejection message automatically reflecting a current situation of a user of the electronic device included in the processor or may be a separate constituent element interworking with the processor .

The message interface may for example include a user situation detector not shown and a new message creator not shown . The user situation detector may include a schedule detection module for accurately detecting a user schedule of a current time in order to create a message automatically reflecting a current situation of a user.

In addition the message interface may include a module for detecting a user s movement situation to detect whether a user is moving or stopping or determining whether the electronic device is in a driving mode to detect that the user is driving a car and modules of various types for determining various reservation information e.g. a movie and a play of culture events.

Further when taking user related information on the web to detect all detailed situations of a user the user situation detector may take and parse hypertext mark up language HTML to extract respective elements and may extract necessary information from a specific application to detect a current situation of the user.

For example in a case of a navigation application the user situation detector may extract a destination a distance and an arrival time to detect a current situation of a user. In addition the user situation detector may capture a display screen to detect a text displayed within a screen and may store the detected information as a temporary file such that another application can identify the detected information. A method of detecting the text displayed within the screen is possible even on the web.

If a current situation of a user is detected the new message creator creates a call rejection message automatically reflecting the detected current situation. When creating a message reflecting the detected current situation of the user the new message creator creates the message suitable to an accurate vocabulary and grammar. For example if the user purchased a movie ticket of Frozen at a current time and plans to watch Frozen in the Bucheon CGV movie theater the new message creator may create a concrete call rejection message of I can t answer the phone because I m watching Frozen in the Bucheon CGV movie theater. I ll contact after movie ending .

In addition if a call is actually income at a movie viewing time zone the new message creator may transmit the call rejection message automatically or transmit the call rejection message according to a user s selection. The new message creator may include a grammar check engine to complete a sentence suitable to an accurate grammar. The grammar check engine may identify sender information for example the social standing of a sender and if the sender is a parent or job senior the grammar check engine may change the call rejection message into a sentence including an honorific language.

The bus may be a circuit connecting the aforementioned constituent elements with one another and forwarding communication e.g. a control message between the aforementioned constituent elements. The processor may for example receive instructions from the aforementioned other constituent elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface through the bus and decipher the received instructions and execute operation or data processing according to the deciphered instructions.

The memory may store an instruction or data that is received from the processor or the other constituent elements e.g. the input output interface the display and the communication interface or is generated by the processor or the other constituent elements. The memory may include for example programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API or an application . The aforementioned programming modules each may consist of software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two or more of them.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used to execute operations or functions implemented in the remnant other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . In addition the kernel may provide an interface enabling the middleware the API or the application to access and control or manage the individual constituent element of the electronic device .

The middleware may perform a relay role of enabling the API or the application to communicate and exchange data with the kernel . In addition in relation to work requests received from the application the middleware may for example perform control e.g. scheduling or load balancing for the work requests by using a method of allocating priority order capable of using the system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API which is an interface enabling the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware may include for example at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for file control window control picture processing or character control.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include a short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS application an electronic mail e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application measuring momentum or blood sugar or environment information application e.g. an application providing air pressure humidity or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related with information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. another electronic device . The application related with the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of relaying notification information generated in another application e.g. the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environment information application of the electronic device to the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may for example receive notification information from the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device and provide the received notification information to a user. The device management application may for example manage e.g. install delete or update a function e.g. turn on turn off of the external electronic device itself or some constituent components or adjustment of a brightness or resolution of a display of at least one part of the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device communicating with the electronic device an application operating in the external electronic device or a service e.g. a telephony service or a message service provided in the external electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application designated according to an attribute e.g. the kind of electronic device of the external electronic device e.g. the other electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related with music playback. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical instrument the application may include an application related with health care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device or an application received from the external electronic device e.g. a server or the other electronic device .

The input output interface may forward an instruction or data which is inputted from a user through an input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen for example to the processor the memory and the communication interface through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide data about a user s touch inputted through the touch screen to the processor . In addition the input output interface may for example output an instruction or data which is received from the processor the memory and the communication interface through the bus through an input output device e.g. a speaker or a display . For example the input output interface may output voice data which is processed through the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display may display various information e.g. multimedia data or text data to a user. The communication interface may establish communication between the electronic device and the external device e.g. the other electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network through wireless communication or wired communication to communicate with the external device. The wireless communication may include for example at least one of Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC GPS or cellular communication e.g. long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro or global system for mobile communications GSM . The wired communication may include for example at least one of a universal serial bus USB a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a recommended standard 232 RS 232 or a plain old telephone service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet internet of things or a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device may be supported in at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

Referring to an electronic device may construct for example the whole or one part of the electronic device illustrated in . The electronic device may include one or more application processors APs a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may run an operating system or an application program to control a plurality of hardware or software constituent elements connected to the AP and may perform processing and operation of various data including multimedia data. The AP may be for example implemented as a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphical processing unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may perform data transmission reception in communication between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the other electronic device or the server connected through a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide voice telephony video telephony a text service or an Internet service through a telecommunication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . In addition the cellular module may for example use a SIM e.g. the SIM card to perform electronic device distinction and authorization within the telecommunication network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least some functions among functions that the AP may provide. For example the cellular module may perform at least one part of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . In addition the cellular module may be for example implemented as an SoC. Referring to the constituent elements such as the cellular module e.g. the CP the memory or the power management module are illustrated as constituent elements apart from the AP but according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may be implemented to include at least some e.g. the cellular module of the aforementioned constituent elements.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module e.g. the CP may load an instruction or data which is received from a non volatile memory connected to each or at least one of other constituent elements to a volatile memory and process the loaded instruction or data. In addition the AP or the cellular module may store data which is received from at least one of other constituent elements or is generated by at least one of the other constituent elements in the non volatile memory.

The Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module each may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Referring to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module is each illustrated as a separate block but according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may be included within one integrated circuit IC or IC package. For example at least some e.g. the CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of the processors each corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module may perform transmission reception of data for example transmission reception of an RF signal. Though not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a power amplifier module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA . In addition the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave in a free space for wireless communication for example a conductor or a conductive wire. illustrates that the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module with one another but according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may perform transmission reception of an RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card including a SIM and may be inserted into a slot provided in a specific position of the electronic device . The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory for example a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RAM SRAM and a synchronous DRAM SDRAM or a non volatile memory for example a one time programmable read only memory OTPROM a PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory and a NOR flash memory .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a solid state drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro SD mini SD extreme digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be operatively connected with the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage media such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or sense an activation state of the electronic device to convert measured or sensed information into an electric signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an air pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a red green blue RGB sensor a bio physical sensor a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K or an ultraviolet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown a fingerprint sensor not shown a geomagnetic sensor not shown and a heart rate sensor not shown . The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors belonging to therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may for example detect a touch input in at least one of a capacitive overlay scheme a pressure sensitive scheme an infrared beam scheme or an acoustic wave scheme. In addition the touch panel may also further include a control circuit. In a case of the capacitive overlay scheme physical contact or proximity detection is possible. The touch panel may also further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented in the same or similar method to receiving a user s touch input or by using a separate sheet for detection. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device is a device capable of identifying data by sensing a sound wave with a microphone e.g. a microphone in the electronic device through an input tool generating an ultrasonic signal and enables wireless detection. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may also use the communication module to receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected with this.

The display e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may for example be a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED . The panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be also constructed as one module along with the touch panel . The hologram device may show a three dimensional image in the air by using interference of light. The projector may project light to a screen to display an image. The screen may be for example located inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example an HDMI a USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included for example in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a mobile high definition link MHL interface an SD card multimedia card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert a voice and an electric signal interactively. At least some constituent elements of the audio module may be included for example in the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module may for example process sound information which is inputted or outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone .

The camera module is a device able to take a still picture and a moving picture. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp . The power management module may manage electric power of the electronic device . Though not illustrated the power management module may include for example a power management IC PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be for example mounted within an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. A charging scheme may be divided into a wired charging scheme and a wireless charging scheme. The charger IC may charge the battery and may prevent the inflow of overvoltage or overcurrent from an electric charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging scheme or the wireless charging scheme. The wireless charging scheme may for example be a magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic wave scheme. A supplementary circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier and the like may be added.

The battery gauge may for example measure a level of the battery a voltage during charging a current or a temperature. The battery may generate or store electricity and use the stored or generated electricity to supply power to the electronic device . The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific status of the electronic device or one part e.g. the AP thereof for example a booting state a message state or a charging state. The motor may convert an electric signal into a mechanical vibration. Though not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing device e.g. a GPU for mobile TV support. The processing device for mobile TV support may for example process media data according to the standards of digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or a media flow.

Each of the aforementioned constituent elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may consist of one or more components and a name of the corresponding constituent element may be different according to the kind of electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned constituent elements and may omit some constituent elements or further include additional other constituent elements. In addition some of the constituent elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are combined to form one entity thereby identically performing the functions of the corresponding constituent elements before combination.

Referring to the electronic device may display a call rejection message writing screen including a virtual touch keyboard and a text input window so that a user can freely write a call rejection message of desired content.

The electronic device may add and display the call rejection messages written by the user within a call rejection message list screen . Thereafter if a call is income the electronic device may display a call incoming screen for selecting call connection or call rejection.

If the user selects the call rejection the electronic device may display a call rejection message selection screen for selecting any one of several call rejection messages and may interrupt an incoming call after transmitting any one call rejection message selected by the user or may transmit the call rejection message after rejecting the incoming call.

Accordingly the call rejection message selected by the user is displayed on a screen of a counterpart electronic device receiving the call rejection message. The call rejection message may include a specific image e.g. a meeting image related to call rejection content.

Referring to a background image showing being in a meeting may be displayed on a screen of the counterpart electronic device together with the content of I ll call you later because I m in a meeting .

Referring to when a user uses the electronic device to reserve a movie ticket on line the processor of the electronic device may extract running time information of a corresponding movie and theater information thereof from reservation information and and then automatically create a call rejection message that is effective during a movie running time.

Referring to the processor of the electronic device may display a call rejection message that is automatically created based on movie reservation information.

The call rejection message may include the content of I ll call you later because I m watching a movie when e.g. 19 30 to 21 30 in which movie theater e.g. Bucheon CGV movie theater . The call rejection message may be automatically added and stored within a call rejection message list or may be stored through a user s confirming or editing process.

If a running time e.g. 19 30 to 21 30 lapses the call rejection message may be deleted automatically or may be edited or deleted through user s confirmation.

Referring to when a user executes a schedule management application within the electronic device to input a meeting time and a meeting place the processor of the electronic device may extract corresponding meeting time information and meeting place information from schedule information and and then automatically create a call rejection message that is effective during the meeting time.

Referring to a call rejection message list which is created by the processor of the electronic device may include a call rejection message reflecting a meeting time.

The call rejection message may include content reflecting a meeting time e.g. 08 00 09 00 and a meeting place e.g. meeting room . When the user selects call rejection against a call having income during the meeting time the call rejection message may be transmitted automatically or may be transmitted according to a user s selection. If the meeting time e.g. 08 00 09 00 lapses the call rejection message may be deleted automatically or may be edited or deleted through user s confirmation.

Referring to the processor of the electronic device may create a call rejection message based on navigation information.

For example when a user executes a navigation application within the electronic device to identify a movement destination and an expected arrival time the processor of the electronic device may extract corresponding destination information and expected arrival time information within navigation information and then automatically create a call rejection message that is effective up to before the expected arrival time.

Referring to a call rejection message included in a call rejection message list may include content reflecting a destination e.g. the Riverside Hotel and an expected arrival time e.g. 02 17 .

In addition when a user selects call rejection against a call having income up to before the expected arrival time the call rejection message may be transmitted automatically or may be transmitted according to a user s selection. If the expected arrival time lapses the call rejection message may be deleted automatically or may be edited or deleted through user s confirmation.

Referring to for example the processor of the electronic device may create a call rejection message and based on user s text message information of an SMS or social networking service SNS . When a user transmits receives a text message through the SMS or transmits receives the text message through the SNS the processor of the electronic device may extract user s event or schedule information within the transmitted received text message and then automatically create a call rejection message and reflecting the event or schedule information.

For example the processor of the electronic device may analyze the content of a text message exchanged between a user e.g. KIM Gap Dol and a counterpart user e.g. KIM Gap Soon to recognize kind information e.g. a movie of an event place information e.g. the Bucheon CGV movie theater and time information e.g. 19 30 21 30 and then automatically create a call rejection message and reflecting the kind place and time of the event.

An operation of analyzing the content of the text message may be performed in the electronic device or may be performed interworking with a network server providing various supplementary services to provide the kind place and time information of the event.

The call rejection message may include content indicating the kind place and time of the event. When the user selects call rejection against a call having income during the time e.g. 19 30 21 30 the call rejection message may be transmitted automatically or may be transmitted according to a user s selection. If the event time e.g. 19 30 21 30 lapses the call rejection message may be deleted automatically or may be edited or deleted through user s confirmation.

Referring to the processor of an electronic device may create a call rejection message based on beacon information. If a beacon signal is received from a beacon transmitter installed in a specific place the processor of the electronic device may use position information of the beacon transmitter included in the beacon signal to create a call rejection message.

The beacon service is a service in which when a user enters a specific place with carrying an electronic device the user receives information capable of knowing a current position of the electronic device from a beacon transmitter. For example if the beacon service is provided in a state in which the user enters a movie theater or a shop the processor of the electronic device may extract position information included in the beacon signal to easily know its own current position and may use this to automatically create a call rejection message.

Further if using a similar indoor positioning service as well as the beacon information the processor of the electronic device may know an accurate current indoor position and therefore may easily detect a current situation of a user.

For example when a user receives a beacon signal after entering a specific place SS PLAZA the processor of the electronic device may create a call rejection message of I can t answer the phone because I m on shopping at SS PLAZA . When the user selects call rejection at call incoming the electronic device may show one candidate among transmissible call rejection messages.

In another example the processor of the electronic device may create a call rejection message based on sensor information. For example when a user is taking exercise with putting the electronic device in his her pocket and an incoming mode is a vibration mode there may be a case in which the processor of the electronic device fails to recognize call incoming. In this context when an option is selected as automatic transmitting of a call rejection message the processor of the electronic device may use an acceleration sensor to sense that the user is taking exercise and may automatically create and transmit a call rejection message of notifying that a current situation of the user is taking exercise. The call rejection message may include the content of I ll contact later because I m taking exercise .

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor of the electronic device may create a call rejection message based on application information. For example if a user does not want to be interrupted while enjoying a movie or playing a game with the electronic device the processor of the electronic device may set an automatic call rejection mode.

If the automatic call rejection mode is set the processor of the electronic device may determine whether any application is being currently run or any contents are being played back. If a multimedia related application of a media player is being executed the processor of the electronic device may detect contents information that is being played back and automatically create and transmit a call rejection message of I ll call you later because I m watching a movie or I ll call you later because I m enjoying music . In addition if a game application is being executed the electronic device may automatically create and transmit a call rejection message of I ll call you later because I m playing a game .

Referring to a user of the electronic device may arbitrarily select the information to be used to create the call rejection message. When the user selects schedule information and sensor information as ON and selects reservation purchasing information and text message SMS information as OFF in a user selection menu of the electronic device the call rejection message may be automatically created based on the schedule information and the sensor information.

In addition the electronic device may convert the call rejection message into a voice message not a text message and transmit the voice message. For example when a counterpart user makes a call by a landline the electronic device may convert the call rejection message from a text message to a voice message to transmit the voice message or may directly create and transmit a voice message without text message creation.

If it is determined that a counterpart phone is a landline phone by identifying a phone number of an incoming call the transmission of the voice message may be implemented through conversion of the call rejection message from the text message to the voice message. For reference when a text to voice converter is included within the electronic device an operation of converting the text message into the voice message may be performed in the electronic device or may be performed interworking with a network server providing various supplementary services.

On the other hand when the call rejection message is transmitted automatically without a user s selection process a current situation of a user is exposed intact to the external and therefore unwanted personal information may be exposed to the external. Accordingly the processor of the electronic device may confirm information of a sender of an incoming call for example caller identification or contact information previously stored within the electronic device and restrict user s current situation information included in the call rejection message depending on the sender of the incoming call.

For example if a user gets an incoming call from an acquaintance who works in a competing company while being leading a meeting on an important project the processor of the electronic device transmits a call rejection message of the common content of I ll call you later because I can t answer the phone now .

On the other hand if the user gets an incoming call from a fellow worker the processor of the electronic device transmits a call rejection message including user s current situation information of I ll call you later because I m in a meeting with KIM Gap Soon about S5 project in a meeting room from 08 00 to 09 00 .

Further the processor of the electronic device determines whether an incoming call is made through intranet or is made through the Internet. If the call is made through the intranet the processor of the electronic device may transmit a call rejection message reflecting a detailed current situation of a user. If the call is made through the Internet the processor of the electronic device may transmit a common call rejection message reflecting no current situation of the user.

Referring to the processor of the electronic device may create a call rejection message based on a wearable device. For example recently a wearable device has a function of determining a user s health and may provide various functions in association with a body of the electronic device. As an example the wearable device already has a heart rate measurement and body temperature measurement function and in future may mount a brain wave measurement sensor.

By analyzing a measurement graph for a body temperature pulse and brain wave of a user who wears the wearable device the processor of the electronic device may determine if the user is really in a deep sleep state.

If the user is in the deep sleep state the processor of the electronic device may automatically create and transmit a call rejection message of I ll contact later because I m sleep . Further the processor of the electronic device may use various sensor data of the wearable device to distinguish a deep sleep and a shallow sleep. If the user is in the deep sleep state the processor of the electronic device may automatically transmit the call rejection message as above. If the user is in a shallow sleep state the processor of the electronic device may make a phone bell ring.

For reference the processor of the electronic device may use various sensors of the wearable device to determine even a user s feeling state and may also create a call rejection message depending on the determined user s feeling state.

On the other hand after the call rejection message is transmitted to a counterpart user if there is a change of a current situation of a user of the electronic device or a preset certain time lapses the electronic device may perform an alarm display operation for notifying for the user of the electronic device to make a call to the counterpart user.

For example after transmitting the call rejection message to the counterpart user to lead the user to make a call to the counterpart user the processor of the electronic device may add a call rejection time and the content of the call rejection message as management items such as a memo a schedule an alarm and the like.

In addition the processor of the electronic device may give an alarm to a user at certain intervals based on the added management items such as the memo the schedule and the alarm or give an alarm at ending of a corresponding schedule based on user s schedule information. The processor of the electronic device may display a UI such as direct dial as one of the alarms for the user to make a call conveniently and simply.

Further when the processor of the electronic device uses sensor information to automatically create a call rejection message at a time when there is a change of a measurement value of a specific sensor the processor of the electronic device may give an alarm for the user to make a call. For example if a measurement value of an acceleration sensor is changed into 0 because a current situation of the user is stopping the processor of the electronic device may give an alarm for the user to make a call to a counterpart user who has transmitted the call rejection message.

On the other hand according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor of the electronic device may automatically create and display a recommended text message reflecting a current situation of a user as well as create a call rejection message reflecting the current situation of the user.

For example in a state in which a user is driving a car or is watching a movie or is at meeting if receiving a text message from a counterpart user through an SMS or SNS in response to this he she must write a text message for notifying a current situation of a user. In this context the processor of the electronic device may automatically create and display the text message reflecting the current situation of the user as a recommended text message. In this context the user may confirm select and transmit the text message or may edit only the partial content of the text message and transmit the edited text message simply and conveniently.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor of the electronic device may create a call rejection message based on vehicle interface information. If being connected for example to a vehicle audio system through a USB and various short range wireless communications such as BT pairing BT low energy BLE and NFC the processor of the electronic device may automatically recognize that a user rides a vehicle.

In addition the processor of the electronic device may use speed information received from a vehicle or a GPS of the vehicle to automatically recognize whether the vehicle is moving or stopping. If the vehicle is moving the processor of the electronic device may automatically transmit a call rejection message. If the vehicle is stopping the processor of the electronic device may transmit the call rejection message according to a user s selection.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor of the electronic device may create a call rejection message based on user s life pattern information. For example if a user of the electronic device is a general job worker the user may have a daily life pattern of going to the office by bus subway or vehicle in weekday morning and working at the office in daylight.

The processor of the electronic device may expect when where and what a user will do based on the user s life pattern information. Further with reference to a user s current position information the processor of the electronic device may increase the accuracy of the above expectation. In addition content corresponding to the expectation result may be included in a call rejection message or recommended text message.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor of the electronic device may create a call rejection message based on device to device D2D service information. For example if determining which kind of device is connected to the electronic device the processor of the electronic device may detect a current situation of a user.

If a game player is connected to the electronic device the current situation of the user may be game playing. If a TV or set top box is connected to the electronic device the current situation of the user may be watching a movie or a multimedia. If an audio system is connected to the electronic device the current situation of the user may be enjoying music.

Accordingly the processor of the electronic device may automatically create and transmit the call rejection message reflecting the above current situation of the user.

Referring to in operation the processor of the electronic device monitors whether a specific situation takes place. If the specific situation takes place for example if a user is in the specific situation such as driving meeting and movie watching in operation the processor of the electronic device automatically create and store a call rejection message associated with the specific situation.

The call rejection message may be automatically created and stored not only when a user cannot make a call at call income but also when the user cannot write and transmit a response message in response to a received message.

For example when the user reserves a movie ticket on line with the electronic device the processor of the electronic device may extract running time information and movie theater information of a corresponding movie from the reservation information and then automatically create a call rejection message that is effective during the movie running time.

In operation the processor of the electronic device monitors if a call is income. Further the processor of the electronic device may also monitor if a text message is received. If the call is income or the text message is received in operation the processor of the electronic device monitors if the user selects call rejection. If the user selects call connection in operation the processor of the electronic device performs common call connection.

On the contrary if the user selects the call rejection in operation the processor of the electronic device displays a call rejection message list. In operation the processor of the electronic device selects and transmits any one call rejection message designated by the user. In operation the processor of the electronic device interrupts the incoming call. The call rejection message may be automatically transmitted without an operation of displaying the call rejection message list.

The operation of transmitting the call rejection message may be performed earlier than the operation of interrupting the incoming call or the operation of transmitting the call rejection message and the operation of interrupting the incoming call may be performed concurrently. The operation of displaying the call rejection message list may be also omitted. For example at call rejection the processor may also automatically select any one call rejection message which automatically reflects a current situation of a user on a basis of a current time from the call rejection message list and transmit the selected call rejection message.

For example if the current time corresponds to a movie running time zone the processor of the electronic device may search a call rejection message related to movie playing from the call rejection message list and automatically transmit the found call rejection message. Upon lapse of the movie running time zone e.g. 19 30 21 30 the call rejection message related to the movie playing may be deleted automatically or may be deleted or edited through user s confirmation.

Referring to in operation the processor of the electronic device monitors whether a call is income. If the call is income in operation the processor of the electronic device monitors if a user selects call rejection. If the user selects call connection in operation the processor of the electronic device performs common call connection.

On the contrary if the user selects the call rejection in operation the processor of the electronic device may real time create a call rejection message automatically reflecting a current situation of a user. In operation the processor of the electronic device may display a call rejection message list including the call rejection message. In operation the processor of the electronic device may transmit any one call rejection message selected by the user. In operation the processor of the electronic device may interrupt the incoming call.

In addition the real time created call rejection message may be also automatically transmitted without the operation of displaying the call rejection message list and the operation of user s selection.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure may reflect a current situation of a user to automatically create various messages in electronic devices of various types such as smart phones or tablet PCs thereby being capable of providing a convenience to a user.

Methods according to various embodiments stated in claims or specification of the present disclosure may be implemented in a form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. If the methods are implemented by the software a computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs i.e. software modules may be provided. The one or more programs stored in the computer readable storage medium are configured to be executed by one or more processors within an electronic device. The one or more programs may include instructions for enabling the electronic device to execute the methods according to the various embodiments stated in the claims and or specification of the present disclosure.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure can also be embodied as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable recording medium. A non transitory computer readable recording medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of the non transitory computer readable recording medium include a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM Compact Disc ROMs CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The non transitory computer readable recording medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. In addition functional programs code and code segments for accomplishing the present disclosure can be easily construed by programmers skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains.

At this point it should be noted that the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above typically involve the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software in combination with hardware. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a mobile device or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with stored instructions may implement the functions associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more non transitory processor readable mediums. Examples of the processor readable mediums include a ROM a RAM CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The processor readable mediums can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the instructions are stored and executed in a distributed fashion. In addition functional computer programs instructions and instruction segments for accomplishing the present disclosure can be easily construed by programmers skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains.

In addition the programs may be stored in an attachable storage device accessible through a communication network such as the Internet an intranet a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN or a storage area network SAN or a communication network constructed by a combination of them. This storage device may access a device performing an embodiment of the present disclosure through an external port. In addition a separate storage device on the communication network may access a device performing an embodiment of the present disclosure.

In the aforementioned concrete embodiments of the present disclosure constituent elements of the disclosure have been expressed in the singular number or the plural number in accordance to the proposed concrete embodiments of the present disclosure. But for description convenience the expression of the singular number or plural number is selected suitable to a proposed situation and various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to singular or plural constituent elements. The constituent element may be although expressed in the plural number constructed in the singular number or the constituent element may be although expressed in the singular number constructed in the plural number.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

