---

title: Small molecule antagonists of bacterial quorum-sensing receptors
abstract: A novel small molecule antagonizes two types of acyl homoserine lactone receptors: membrane-bound and cytoplasmic. A focused library of analogs and derivatives of the original antagonist was synthesized. Analog and derivative molecules harbor a range of activities. The novel small molecule and most potent antagonist protects the eukaryote from quorum-sensing-mediated killing by the bacterial pathogen . The saving of demonstrates the use of these molecules as small molecule antimicrobials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09468624&OS=09468624&RS=09468624
owner: THE TRUSTEES OF PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
number: 09468624
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150615
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 288 984 filed on May 28 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 550 961 filed on Jul. 17 2012 which issued on Jul. 8 2014 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 772 331 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 643 574 filed on Dec. 21 2009 which issued on Aug. 21 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 247 443 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 203 371 filed Dec. 22 2008 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 270 979 filed Jul. 15 2009 all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grants 2 R01 GM065859 and 5 F32 GM078755 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and Grants MCB 0639855 and MCB 0343821 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

In a process referred to as quorum sensing bacteria communicate using chemical signal molecules called autoinducers. By monitoring increases and decreases in autoinducer concentration quorum sensing bacteria track changes in cell population density and synchronously switch into and out of group behaviors. Quorum sensing allows bacteria to collectively carry out tasks that would be unsuccessful if carried out by an individual bacterium acting alone.

Gram negative quorum sensing bacteria typically employ acyl homoserine lactones AHLs as autoinducers and each bacterial species detects the cell density dependent accumulation of one or more particular AHL molecule s . AHL detection occurs by one of two distinct mechanisms.

In the first mechanism cytoplasmic LuxR type proteins detect AHLs that diffuse into the cell Fuqua et al. 1994 . In these cases the unliganded LuxR type proteins are insoluble and degraded at low cell density LCD when AHL concentrations are low Zhu and Winans 1999 2001 . At high cell density HCD when AHLs are present AHL binding to the cognate LuxR type proteins promotes folding of the LuxR type protein AHL complexes. The complexes bind DNA and activate quorum sensing target genes Zhang et al 2002 . However there are a few cases in which the LuxR type proteins fold bind DNA and repress target gene transcription in the absence of AHL Minogue et al. 2002 2005 Sjoblom et al. 2006 . In these cases accumulation and binding of AHL relieves repression and this depends on the location of the DNA binding site rather than on some unique structural feature of the receptor. provides an example of this first mechanism with the AHL being C6 homoserine lactone HSL the LuxR type protein being CviR and the target genes being vio genes which are involved in production of violacein protein.

In the second mechanism AHLs are detected by membrane bound two component histidine kinase type proteins of the LuxN family Freeman et al. 2000 Jung et al. 2007 Swem et al. 2008 Timmen et al. 2006 . In these cases accumulated AHLs are detected outside the cell e.g. in the periplasm and AHL binding by the cognate LuxN receptor elicits a change in its auto phosphorylation and phospho transfer activities. These complexes relay information internally by phosphorylation cascades that impinge on downstream DNA binding proteins that are responsible for directing gene expression changes. This causes a change in the phosphorylation state of a downstream DNA binding transcription factor which alters its activity and promotes the quorum sensing gene expression response.

Infectious bacteria which include human animal plant and marine pathogens use AHL quorum sensing strategies to control virulence. Typically bacterial infections are treated with bactericidal or bacteriostatic molecules that impede four major processes DNA replication transcription translation or tetrahydrofolic acid synthesis. Existing methods for treating bacterial infection unfortunately exacerbate the growing antibiotic resistance problem because they inherently select for growth of bacteria that in turn can resist the drug. What is needed are new treatments that avoid selecting for drug resistant bacteria.

It is well established that quorum sensing plays a fundamental role in bacterial pathogenicity in both Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria. However previous attempts to inhibit AHL mediated quorum sensing in Gram negative bacteria have not provided promising results in vivo.

The bacterium is the major pathogen associated with cystic fibrosis lung infection keratitis eye infection and third degree burn associated skin infections. There are mutant strains that lack the AHL synthase and thus do not produce endogenous autoinducer. Molecules have been studied in vitro that inhibit LasR a receptor for the AHL. However those studies on have not included in vivo testing on wild type bacteria.

Quorum sensing also controls biofilm formation. Biofilms are communities of bacterial cells adhered to surfaces and are highly problematic for example in industrial processes e.g. clogging of cooling towers in manufacturing plants and in hospital or other clinical settings e.g. catheter and implant infections . Initial studies with and indicated that manipulation of a form of quorum sensing that is peptide mediated would not have successful results. Most notably disruption of the peptide quorum sensing circuit in by deleting necessary quorum sensing genes led unexpectedly to increased biofilm formation on implanted medical devices. Therefore what is needed are new treatments for bacterial infection that can more subtly manipulate bacterial behaviors that promote health problems.

Quorum sensing controls virulence factor production in many clinically relevant bacteria. Thus methods described herein that disrupt quorum sensing are useful health treatment alternatives to administering traditional antibiotics. Interference with either the production or the detection of autoinducer molecules can abolish bacterial communication and render bacteria non pathogenic. Methods that disrupt quorum sensing are also useful in dealing with problematic bacterial biofilms. The present invention identifies novel small molecules that can be used to positively and negatively manipulate quorum sensing mediated communication to control bacterial quorum sensing dependent behaviors.

Accordingly in a first aspect the invention features a small molecule compound characterized by its ability to bind to LuxN at the autoinducer 1 AI 1 binding site of LuxN wherein the compound is an analog of 4 4 chloro 2 methylphenoxy N 2 oxotetrahydrothiophen 3 yl butanamide compound 4606 4237 . Embodiments of the invention include various isolated and purified analogs of compound 4606 4237. In a preferred embodiment the compound is one of the small molecules from the group consisting of the structures shown in .

In another aspect the invention features a LuxN antagonist compound that is one of the analog compounds of the invention. In one embodiment the analog is selected from the group consisting of the structures shown in .

In a related aspect the invention features a method of disrupting detection of acyl homoserine lactone autoinducer in Gram negative bacteria comprising contacting the bacteria with an inventive small molecule compound of the invention.

In another related aspect the invention features a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent and one or more of the inventive small molecule compounds. In one embodiment the compound is selected from the group consisting of the structures shown in .

In a further related aspect the invention features a method of inhibiting bacterial infection of a host comprising contacting the bacteria with the inventive pharmaceutical composition wherein the bacteria are Gram negative quorum sensing bacteria.

In yet another related aspect the invention features a bacterial biofilm inhibiting composition comprising one or more of the inventive compounds. A preferred embodiment provides a compound selected from the group consisting of the structures shown in . In a preferred embodiment the composition also comprises DMSO.

In still another related aspect the invention features a method of controlling growth of quorum sensing Gram negative bacteria attached to a solid surface comprising exposing the bacteria to the bacterial biofilm inhibiting composition.

A related aspect of the invention features a method of preventing biofilm formation on a solid surface comprising administering the bacterial biofilm inhibiting composition to the surface.

Another aspect of the invention features a method of inhibiting quorum sensing mediated activity in Gram negative bacteria comprising contacting the bacteria with the inventive antagonist compound preferably the compound selected from the group consisting of the structures shown in .

In a preferred embodiment the quorum sensing mediated activity is pathogenicity. In another preferred embodiment the bacteria are pathogenic to humans animals plants or marine life. In a particularly preferred embodiment the activity is pathogenicity and the bacterial species is selected from and

In another preferred embodiment the activity is bioluminescence siderophore production type III secretion or metalloprotease production.

Additional features and advantages of the present invention will be better understood by reference to the drawings detailed description and examples that follow.

One aspect of the invention is directed to a class of HSL antagonist molecules that have the unique ability to antagonize two different quorum sensing receptor types. Specifically the antagonists inhibit both the membrane bound sensor kinase LuxN and the cytoplasmic transcriptional regulator CviR. Remarkably the core features of the antagonists are equally important for potent activity against both receptor types. This finding is particularly surprising because LuxN and CviR are not evolutionarily conserved proteins although both receptors bind and respond to similar ligands namely LuxN binds 3OH C4 HSL and CviR binds C6 HSL .

In the quorum sensing bacterium the strongest autoinducer signal is the AHL 3OH C4 HSL and it is detected by LuxN the defining member of the family of membrane bound two component AHL receptor proteins. LuxN type and LuxR type AHL receptors have no obvious sequence homology and they employ distinct mechanisms for signal transduction. However each type of receptor must bind an AHL and AHLs share common structural features. The experiments described below were designed to determine if LuxR type and LuxN type receptors have structurally similar AHL binding pockets. The experiments indicate that this is the case and thus led to the inference that the molecules that antagonize a LuxN type receptor and compete for the AHL binding site would reasonably also antagonize a LuxR type AHL receptor. The binding activities of the antagonist molecules of the present invention support this inference.

Initial high throughput chemical library screens allowed for the identification of small molecules that disrupt detection of acyl homoserine lactone type autoinducers in Gram negative bacteria and thus are identified as antagonists of LuxN. . One strong antagonist was studied in detail. This was 4 4 chloro 2 methylphenoxy N 2 oxotetrahydrothiophen 3 yl butanamide compound 4606 4237 . Characterization revealed that the antagonist competes for the AHL binding site of LuxN and also strongly antagonizes a canonical LuxR type protein called CviR from

As used herein a LuxR type protein is a transcriptional regulatory protein that binds directly to an acylated homoserine lactone molecule and then dimerizes. This dimer then binds directly to a DNA promoter element and either activates or represses transcription of downstream genes.

Based on the initially identified antagonist 4606 4237 a set of related molecules was synthesized and tested for antagonist activity against CviR. Some of the molecules had no activity. Molecules that possessed antagonist activity functioned by two different mechanisms. The first mechanism can be represented by the example of C8 HSL and C10 HSL. In this case CviR is highly sensitive to C8 HSL but only half maximal green fluorescent protein gfp production is induced by this molecule. Gel mobility shift analyses indicate that the decreased gfp expression is not due to disruption of DNA binding. Therefore the results can be taken to indicate that C8 HSL places the CviR receptor into a conformation that binds DNA but does not engage in all of the same interactions with RNA polymerase as does the CviR receptor bound to the native ligand C6 HSL. Extending the acyl chain by two additional carbons C10 HSL further exacerbates the problem. In this case CviR binds DNA equally well as when bound to C6 HSL or C8 HSL but the CviR C10 HSL complex apparently cannot make the contacts with RNA polymerase necessary to activate transcription.

The second mechanism of CviR antagonism is typified by disruption of DNA binding. In these cases as represented by C12 HSL C14 HSL 4606 4237 Chloro thiolactone CTL or chlorolactone CL for example the antagonists bind and solubilize the CviR receptor but do not allow the protein to adopt a conformation suitable for DNA binding. These results indicate that the activity of LuxR type receptors are modulated by partial antagonists that function like C8 HSL in order to fine tune their respective quorum sensing outputs. In scenarios where complete abrogation of quorum sensing behaviors is desired more potent antagonists i.e. C12 HSL 4606 4237 etc. can be employed.

Because the strong antagonists of the present invention also eliminate the LuxN response to its cognate AHL signal it is not a prerequisite that the particular targeted quorum sensing receptor binds DNA or interacts with RNA polymerase for successful antagonism by the above class of molecules. In the case of LuxN the antagonists presumably function by binding to the periplasmic domain. The analyses described herein suggest that the antagonists act as competitive inhibitors for LuxN binding to the native signal which binds in the periplasm. Irrespective of where the molecules bind to LuxN what is clear is that they act to prevent LuxN from switching from kinase mode to phosphatase mode and in so doing they prevent autoinducer reception.

The set of molecules that was synthesized are based on the core structure of the potent LuxN and CviR antagonist which is compound 4606 4237 . A generalized formula for the synthesized molecules of the present invention is 

A preferred aryl substitution pattern is disubstitution with fluorine at the ortho position and chlorine at the para position.

The methods for synthesis of molecules in the library described above are exemplified by the following formula for synthesis of the chlorolactone 

From the synthesized library additional antagonists of the ligands of the autoinducers were identified some with reduced and some with increased 10 100 fold potency. The antagonists function by two mechanisms. One class of antagonists promotes CviR folding but prevents DNA binding. A second set of antagonists promote CviR folding and DNA binding but reduces or eliminates transcriptional activation suggesting that the CviR antagonist complex cannot productively interact with RNA polymerase. The most potent CviR antagonist also functions as the strongest antagonist of LuxN which is consistent with the original hypothesis that AHL binding pockets are similar in these diverse receptors. This antagonist prevents killing of by specifically inhibiting the CviR dependent quorum sensing virulence pathway.

Thus many of the synthesized small molecules inhibit quorum sensing in bacteria and protect from quorum sensing mediated bacterial pathogenesis of eukaryotes. These synthesized molecules work as anti bacterial treatments through a novel molecular mechanism that interferes with quorum sensing.

In total the antagonists identified here can serve as broad spectrum lead compounds for disrupting quorum sensing in pathogenic Gram negative bacteria. Targeting quorum sensing or other bacterial behaviors provides the opportunity to potentially minimize or at least delay the development of bacterial resistance since these types of therapies interfere only with signaling and not growth. In essence an anti quorum sensing therapy disables bacterial counting mechanisms causing bacteria to act as individuals in the host even when they have achieved sufficient numbers to initiate a successful virulence cascade preventing the bacteria from gaining a toe hold on the host. In so doing anti quorum sensing drugs provide the host s immune system the needed time to ferret out and eliminate the pathogen. Consistent with this mutant analyses described herein convincingly demonstrated that clinically relevant pathogens lacking quorum sensing are attenuated for virulence. Such bacteria do not grow unchecked in model host organisms even though their repertoire of canonical virulence factors remain intact and only quorum sensing mediated communication is eliminated. The model system demonstrated herein shows that interfering with this vital command and control system is sufficient to fully cripple invading bacteria.

In our conceptualization of this new therapy the bacterial quorum sensing receptors work in a manner similar to eukaryotic G protein coupled receptors. For example extensive treatments of eukaryotic diseases have been developed with a variety of therapeutics that specifically target signaling and behavior but not cell growth. Nearly half of all modern drugs interfere with G protein coupled receptor signal transduction cascades and these therapies are currently used in the treatment of schizophrenia general allergies irritable bowel syndrome and acid reflux disease. Importantly therapies have already successfully targeted G protein coupled receptors in the treatment of multiple diseases.

The studies herein focus on strategies for interfering with bacterial quorum sensing in order to develop novel antimicrobial therapeutics. Most of the antagonist molecules identified herein are based on the core structure of the most potent AHL antagonist from a chemical library screen. The most potent of molecules tested herein were the 4 4 chloro 2 methylphenoxy N 2 oxotetrahydrothiophen 3 yl butanamide compound 4606 4237 Chloro thiolactone CTL and chlorolactone CL molecules. In a similar manner studies of have elucidated molecules that contain a homoserine lactone head group with various acyl chain decorations that inhibit an AHL receptor LasR. Some of these molecules appear to function in a similar manner to the 4606 4237 CTL and CL molecules presented here. It is intended that the molecules presented herein as bacterial antagonists and tested in model systems to establish antagonist activity function in diverse quorum sensing bacterial species that share the common control mechanism.

Our results most notably with the CL molecule make the strong case and provide the first compelling in vivo evidence that an anti quorum sensing strategy is a valid alternative to traditional antibiotics for Gram negative bacteria and that there is merit to pursuing the clinical relevance of such strategies. Specifically we successfully administered our strongest quorum sensing antagonists in a model setting and showed that they improve the outcome of a wild type bacterial infection in an animal host in this case in the nematode . The results of DNA binding analysis of ligand bound CviR to vioA promoter showing that the strongest antagonist can exchange with the native autoinducer provide evidence that quorum sensing controlled virulent processes can indeed be reversed. Together the biochemical and animal studies suggest that anti quorum sensing strategies hold promise as novel non bactericidal non bacteriostatic drug therapies to treat Gram negative and Gram positive infections. Our finding that at least the CL antagonist molecule is potent enough to protect the animal from wild type virulent bacteria suggests that quorum sensing receptors are promising targets for drug development and furthermore that small molecule antagonists can be identified and synthesized with relative ease.

The experiments described herein which demonstrate inhibition of two autoinducer receptors that function by drastically different mechanisms allowed us to conceptualize a similar mechanism for the ubiquitous AI 2 quorum sensing circuit. To elaborate the gene encoding the AI 2 synthase luxS is found in over 50 of all sequenced prokaryotic genomes and disruption of AI 2 quorum sensing in pathogenic bacteria often leads to decreased virulence factor production. Two representative quorum sensing receptors for AI 2 have been identified as LuxPQ from and LsrB from . The present studies have allowed us to conceptualize identifying an AI 2 antagonist molecule that has the ability to target many different AI 2 receptor types independent of the mode of action of the receptor.

The following examples set forth the general procedures involved in practicing the present invention. To the extent that specific materials are mentioned it is merely for purposes of illustration and is not intended to limit the invention. Unless otherwise specified general cloning procedures such as those set forth in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1989 hereinafter Sambrook et al. or Ausubel et al. eds Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons 1998 hereinafter Ausubel et al. are used.

Wild type strain ATCC31532 was purchased from the ATCC. The cviI mutant strain CV026 was kindly supplied by Clay Fuqua and Paul Williams. strains were grown aerobically at 30 C. in either Luria Bertani broth or Nutrient Broth supplemented with 1 mM trypotophan. strains were grown aerobically at 30 C. in autoinducer bioassay AB broth. AI 1 dose response curves were generated in strains BB120 BB960 and JMH624 as described. was grown at 37 C. in Luria Bertani broth. The plasmid pET23b Novagen was used for expressing cviR in strain BL21 Gold DE3 or BL21 DE3 pLysS Stratagene and maintained by inclusion of Ampicillin at 100 g ml. Plasmid pEVS141 was used for the vioA gfp promoter fusion and maintained with 50 g ml of Kanamycin. A list of strains and plasmids used in this study is provided in the Table 1. wild type strain N2 was used for all of the nematode infection studies. Worms were propagated on Nematode Growth Media NGM medium with an OP50 lawn as the food source and allowed to multiply at 20 C.

The vioA gfp promoter fusion was constructed by amplifying the vioA promoter and cloning this region upstream of gfp in pEVS141 at the SphI and SalI sites. Cells containing the vioA gfp construct were electroporated with the pET23 carrying cviR and selected on LB medium supplemented with 75 g mL ampicillin and 50 g mL kanamycin. The strain containing cviR and the vio gfp reporter is named ELS1257.

CviR Overexpression and Purification. CviR was overexpressed in BL21 DE3 pLysS by growing an overnight culture in LB supplemented with 100 g mL ampicillin and 10 g mL chloramphenicol. The culture was diluted 1 50 into fresh LB supplemented with 100 g mL ampicillin and 10 g mL chloramphenicol and grown shaking at 37 C. to an ODof 0.4. Various AHL or antagonist molecules were added to at 50 M and incubated an additional 30 minutes at 30 C. after which expression was induced by the addition of 100 M IPTG isopropyl D thiogalactopyranoside for 4 hours at 30 C. Cells were harvested by centrifugation and lysed in 20 mM imidazole pH 8.0 100 mM NaCl 0.5 mM EDTA and 5 glycerol via a Micro fluidizer processor MicroFluidics . Protein was purified via ion exchange using a Hitrap Heparin HP column GE Healthcare . Protein was eluted with a 100 mM to 1 M NaCl gradient. Fractions containing CviR were pooled and diluted in lysis buffer devoid of NaCl and then further purified by cation exchange chromatography using a Hitrap SP HP column GE Healthcare . CviR was eluted with a 100 mM to 1 M NaCl gradient. Fractions were pooled and 25 glycerol was added and protein was stored at 80 C.

DNA probes for gel mobility shift analyses were generated by standard polymerase chain reaction using primers with a 5 6 FAM fluorescein tag Integrated DNA Technologies . The target probe contained about 100 nucleotides of the vioA promoter. The control probe contained 300 bases of vioB intergenic DNA. 37 ng of each probe was incubated for 20 minutes at room temperature with the indicated amounts of CviR 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 and 0.5 M and 1 g L poly dIdC in 1 Gel shift buffer 40 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 100 mM KCL 2 mM EDTA 2 mM DTT 10 glycerol 200 g mL BSA . Gel mobility shifts were performed on 6 TGE polyacrylamide gels and visualized using a Storm 860 Imaging System Molecular Dynamics .

Life Span Assays. lifespan assays were completed with at least 100 wild type N2 worms for each condition. eggs were harvested from a large population of gravid adults using a standard bleaching protocol 30 mL 5 bleach 15 mL N KOH 55 mL DHO . Harvested eggs were placed on lawns of fresh OP50 and allowed to hatch and grow to the young adult L4 stage before being moved onto lawns of . Worms were scored for survival each day and transferred to new lawns every two days until all worms had expired. C6 HSL 4606 4237 and CL were added directly to NGM medium at 5 M 50 M and 20 M respectively.

To assess LuxR type AHL sensitivity and selectivity strain ATCC31532 was employed. synthesizes and responds to C6 HSL . The quorum sensing readout for is the easily quantifiable purple pigment violacein. Violacein production requires CviR binding to C6 HSL at high cell density and subsequent activation of transcription of the vioABCDE biosynthetic gene cluster that is responsible for violacein production. also possesses a repressor of vioABCDE. The repressor locus was identified and characterized gene CV1055 . This repressor is inactivated in the violacein assay strain.

To examine the specificity and sensitivity of CviR an strain was engineered that expresses CviR and contains a plasmid harboring the vioA promoter fused to green fluorescent protein gfp . Thus the ability of CviR to activate transcription can be assessed by measuring gfp expression in the presence of various molecules. First tested was the CviR response to a variety of AHL molecules with varying acyl tail lengths . CviR activates significant vioA gfp expression in response to C4 HSL C6 HSL the native signal and C8 HSL with ECvalues of 12 M 75 nM and 30 nM respectively . Although C4 HSL can induce maximal vioA gfp expression it takes nearly three orders of magnitude more C4 HSL than C6 HSL to do so. The longer acyl tail length AHL molecules C10 HSL C12 HSL and C14 HSL do not induce vioA gfp expression through CviR even at 100 M. A curious finding regarding CviR is that it has a similar sensitivity for C6 HSL EC 75 nM and C8 HSL EC 30 nM yet the two molecules do not activate vioA gfp expression to the same maximal level . Specifically C8 HSL induces only half of the maximal vioA gfp expression induced by C6 HSL. This result indicates that the C8 HSL autoinducer readily binds to CviR but induces a conformational change in the CviR protein that while obviously not completely negating its interaction with RNA polymerase decreases its transcriptional activating potential with respect to that of C6 HSL bound CviR.

Consistent with the long chain AHL molecules not inducing CviR transcriptional activation C10 HSL C12 HSL and C14 HSL have been reported to antagonize the CviR protein. The ICvalues for C10 HSL C12 HSL and C14 HSL in the presence of constant 500 nM C6 HSL were measured to be 208 nM 494 nM and 268 nM respectively . The ICvalues for these antagonist molecules are quite low suggesting that the CviR receptor has similar binding affinity for the long acyl tail length AHL molecules as it does for the native C6 HSL autoinducer. However binding of the longer acyl tail length AHL molecules disrupts the transcriptional activation ability of CviR.

High throughput chemical library screens had identified 15 molecules that inhibit AHL detection by the membrane bound two component AHL receptor LuxN structures are provided in . Experiments were undertaken to establish whether any of these LuxN antagonist molecules could also interfere with AHL binding to CviR. To examine this each of the 15 molecules was tested for inhibition of in vivo violacein production in . For this set of experiments a cviI mutant that produces no endogenous AHL signal was used. The native C6 HSL signal was added exogenously and held constant at 5 M and violacein production was measured in the presence of 50 M of each potential antagonist . Importantly because the cviI mutation in the test strain renders it incapable of AHL production this strain does not produce violacein in the absence of exogenously supplied AHL bar denoted No HSL . One of the LuxN antagonists denoted 4606 4237 completely abolished violacein production when examined at 10 fold higher concentration than the native C6 HSL ligand. Importantly molecule 4606 4237 does not inhibit bacterial growth.

To quantify the in vivo potency of 4606 4237 further characterization was undertaken of violacein production in wild type i.e. the wild type strain carrying a functional cviI gene that produces native levels of C6 HSL in response to 4606 4237 at concentrations ranging from 45 nM to 100 M . The antagonist 4606 4237 inhibits violacein production in with an ICvalue of 1.2 M . To determine if 4606 4237 inhibits violacein production specifically by interfering with CviR 4606 4237 was tested for antagonism of CviR in the recombinant vioA gfp assay. For these experiments C6 HSL was held constant at 500 nM while 4606 4237 was titrated from 1.3 nM to 100 M . This concentration of native C6 HSL signal induces maximal gfp production in this heterologous assay system. Importantly no components other than CviR are present in the recombinant assay strain. Thus any inhibition occurring would be due to a specific interaction between the antagonist molecule 4606 4237 and CviR rather than an interaction of 4606 4237 with some unknown component required for violacein production in . Indeed the 4606 4237 molecule strongly inhibited vioA gfp expression with an ICvalue of 2.2 M similar to what was determined for the in vivo inhibition activity . Thus 4606 4237 functions by disabling CviR mediated activation of gene expression in both the in vivo violacein assay and the recombinant vioA gfp assay.

To explore the structural features of 4606 4237 critical for antagonism of CviR a focused library of small molecules was synthesized based on the core structure of 4606 4237. The structures and antagonist activities of all of the derivatives are supplied in . Analogous to the parent molecule 4606 4237 most of the derivatives were antagonists of CviR . For example moving the chlorine atom from the para to the meta position of the phenol ring did little to the antagonist activity against CviR IC 2.1 M . By contrast addition of a fluorine atom to the ortho meta and para positions marginally increased the antagonistic activity IC 630 nM . Incorporation of a ter butyl or a phenol moiety at the para position eliminated antagonist activity. Cumulative analysis of the activities of this set of synthesized molecules revealed that placing a halogen atom at the para position of the phenyl along with elimination of the methyl moiety from the ortho position increased antagonism efficacy ICdecreases from 2.2 M to 1.1 M and denoted CTL . Replacing the sulfur with an oxygen atom in the thiolactone head group increased the potency of the antagonist nearly 10 fold over that of the original 4606 4237 molecule giving an ICvalue of 377 nM and denoted CL . Thus CL is the strongest synthetic antagonist identified from this study. Similarly analogs with the sulfur in the lactone ring replaced with an oxygen and with fluorine in the meta or ortho positions provided potent antagonists with IC50 values of approximately 100 nM.

The in vivo potency of CTL and CL were tested at concentrations ranging from 31 nM to 100 M. Both CTL and CL inhibited in vivo violacein production in a dose dependent manner with ICvalues of 723 nM and 295 nM respectively Importantly the efficacy of 4606 4237 CTL and CL follow identical patterns in both the vioA gfp assay and the in vivo violacein assay . This result shows that similar to the parent molecule 4606 4237 both CTL and CL traverse the and membranes and likely function by directly interfering with CviR dependent transcriptional activation.

Similar to the paradigmatic TraR AHL binding protein from the experiments described herein showed that CviR is only soluble and thus only able to bind DNA and activate transcription when bound to its cognate AHL ligand DMSO control lanes . This finding engenders the question whether some of the antagonists function by interfering with CviR folding and solubility. The solubility characteristics of CviR were analyzed in the presence of the various molecules under study. To do this CviR was expressed in in the presence of exogenously supplied C4 HSL C6 HSL C8 HSL C10 HSL C12 HSL and C14 HSL 4606 4237 CTL and CL. As controls the protein was also expressed in the absence of any AHL or antagonist. In each case whole cell and soluble fractions of cell lysates were analyzed by SDS PAGE to assess whether the CviR protein in question had been stabilized.

The CviR protein was not soluble if no ligand was added DMSO control lanes . By contrast CviR became soluble when expressed in the presence of all the tested AHLs C6 HSL and C10 HSL shown as representative in all others are shown in . The three synthetic antagonists 4606 4237 CTL and CL also promoted CviR31532 folding and solubility . These are surprising results because CviR is agonized by C4 HSL and C6 HSL partially agonized by C8 HSL but antagonized by C10 HSL C12 HSL C14 HSL 4606 4237 CTL and CL . Therefore we come to the conclusion that all of the CviR antagonist molecules C10 HSL C12 HSL C14 HSL 4606 4237 CTL and CL are bound by CviR and thus do not antagonize the receptor by inhibiting protein folding and solubility.

To further investigate the mechanism underlying antagonism of the CviR receptor an examination was undertaken of whether the soluble CviR antagonist complexes were incapable of binding DNA and thus unable to activate transcription. The first step was purifying the CviR protein in complex with the native C6 HSL ligand and in complex with C8 HSL C10 HSL C12 HSL and C14 HSL. The CviR protein was also purified in complex with each of the synthetic antagonist molecules 4606 4237 CTL and CL. Performance of DNA gel mobility shift analyses enabled assessment of the binding of each of these purified loaded protein complexes to the vioA promoter. It was not possible to purify CviR in the presence of C4 HSL which is consistent with the high ECvalue and therefore low affinity CviR has for this molecule .

CviR loaded with its cognate C6 HSL signal molecule binds DNA with high affinity at even the lowest ligand concentration of 100 nM . CviR loaded with C6 HSL did not bind to a control DNA probe consisting of a 300 nucleotide region of the vioB open region frame data not shown . CviR protein loaded with C8 HSL bound DNA with similar affinity to the C6 HSL loaded CviR complex . However having shown previously that C8 HSL is incapable of activating maximal gfp expression this indicates that CviR loaded with C8 HSL can bind DNA properly but the complex is in a conformation that is not fully competent as a transcriptional activator. Having shown that C10 HSL is an antagonist of the CviR protein another surprising result was that C10 HSL as well does not abolish DNA binding of the CviR protein . This result indicates that C10 HSL locks CviR into a conformation incapable of productive interaction with RNA polymerase. Purified CviR bound to the remaining antagonist molecules C12 HSL C14 HSL as well as the synthetic antagonists 4606 4237 CTL and CL displayed no ability to bind DNA . Therefore this final set of molecules antagonize the CviR receptor by inhibiting DNA binding rather than by inhibiting interaction with RNA polymerase.

To determine if CviR could reversibly bind C6 HSL gel mobility shift analyses of CviR loaded with C6 HSL were performed in the presence of increasing concentrations of the most potent synthetic antagonist CL . C6 HSL loaded CviR protein was incubated with the vioA probe at a concentration of 500 nM and the CL molecule was added at final concentrations of 0 0.5 1 3 5 and 10 M. DNA binding decreased in a dose dependent manner with increasing concentrations of the CL antagonist suggesting that the CL antagonist could exchange with the C6 HSL bound to the CviR protein. The reciprocal experiment tested whether C6 HSL could replace CL bound to CviR. In this experiment CviR loaded with CL at a concentration of 500 nM was incubated in the presence of increasing concentrations of C6 HSL from 0 to 10 M . At a concentration of 1 M C6 HSL we could detect a modest shift of the DNA probe . This shift was dose dependent with the strongest gel mobility shift observed at a concentration of 10 M C6 HSL. These experiments show that when CL is exchanged for C6 HSL the complex transitions from being fully capable of DNA binding to fully incapable of DNA binding left panel . However the gel shifts show that C6 HSL is not likewise capable of replacing CL to generate fully competent DNA bound complex right panel . In this case the protein must exchange the ligand and convert from a DNA binding incompetent form to a DNA binding competent form. Most likely some of the protein misfolds during this process. Nonetheless these analyses show that ligand binding is a reversible event because exchange can occur after CviR has folded around the native ligand or the synthetic antagonist molecule.

The experiments described above show that 4606 4237 CTL and CL bind to the cytoplasmic CviR AHL receptor and act as potent antagonists. However 4606 4237 was initially identified for its ability to interrupt AHL detection by the trans membrane receptor LuxN . Thus the experimental results described above engendered the question whether the dual inhibitory characteristic of 4606 4237 is a property exclusive to that molecule or whether the other inhibitors namely CTL and CL might also be potent inhibitors of the LuxN receptor. If so it would indicate that 1 a rather generic AHL binding site exists in Gram negative quorum sensing receptors that recognize medium chain length AHLs 2 this binding site occurs irrespective of the receptor s overall domain architecture and 3 the binding site is also independent of whether signal recognition occurs in the cytoplasm or in the periplasm.

To determine the properties of CTL and CL in relation to the LuxN receptor the in vivo activity was examined of 4606 4237 CTL and CL for LuxN using dose response analyses of the endogenous quorum sensing activated target bioluminescence. Three different V strains were examined 1 The wild type strain BB120 which has multiple quorum sensing circuits and thus responds to multiple autoinducers only one of which is the AHL acting through LuxN. 2 BB960 which lacks the receptor for the second autoinducer making the AHL LuxN circuit the dominant input into bioluminescence expression. 3 JMH624 which in addition to lacking the receptor for the second autoinducer lacks the AHL synthase LuxM. Thus JMH624 induces bioluminescence exclusively in response to the AHL 3OH C4 HSL signal but only when it is supplied exogenously. Exogenous addition of 20 nM 3OH C4 HSL is sufficient to induce maximal bioluminescence in all of these strains. Importantly however endogenously produced AHL accumulates to low micromolar levels in culture fluids of strains possessing the AHL synthase LuxM.

Unlike 4606 4237 the CTL molecule is capable of inhibiting all three strains BB120 BB960 and JMH624 AHL with ICvalues of 150 M 28 M and 6 M respectively . And the CL molecule is the most potent LuxN antagonist with ICvalues for BB120 BB960 and JMH624 AHL of 40 M 14 M and 873 nM respectively . Thus the ability of these antagonist molecules to target LuxN parallels the results for the CviR receptor in terms of potency CL CTL 4606 4237. In the context of LuxN alteration of 4606 4237 to CTL or better to CL makes the molecule able to interfere with AHL reception even in the face of a competing quorum sensing system and in the presence of high levels of endogenously produced signal.

Quorum sensing in both Gram negative and Gram positive bacteria often controls processes critical for pathogenesis of eukaryotic hosts. is a human pathogen frequently infecting by means of introduction through lacerated skin. As a model system of infection of a eukaryotic host infection of was examined. Lifespan assays reveal that rapidly kills with a median survival of the nematode of two days in the presence of compared to a median survival of fifteen days when grown in the presence of the non pathogenic strain OP50 data not shown . A vioA mutant that is incapable of producing the violacein pigment remains fully capable of shortening lifespan showing that violacein is not responsible for mediated killing of the nematode data not shown .

To test if quorum sensing is required for killing of lifespan assays were performed with the cviI mutant that makes no AHL signal and thus does not express quorum sensing dependent genes. In the presence of the mutant strain the median lifespan is twelve days DMSO control . Exogenous addition of the native autoinducer molecule C6 HSL restored quorum sensing and complemented the cviI mutant s ability to kill median lifespan 4 days . This result provides strong evidence that a factor s other than violacein that is under quorum sensing control is responsible for pathogenicity of

This assay system also facilitated a test as to whether the 4606 4237 antagonist could inhibit quorum sensing mediated killing of the nematode by . Indeed the simultaneous addition of C6 HSL and 4606 4237 to the cviI mutant increased median survival to twelve days . The 4606 4237 molecule had little affect on when added to the coil mutant in the absence of the C6 HSL signal .

With the ultimate goal of control of virulent processes of fully infective wild type bacteria a test was conducted of the extremely potent antagonist CL on wild type i.e. a strain that is fully capable of producing and responding to C6 HSL signal. At a concentration of only 20 M CL protected from killing by wild type . In this context lifespan increased from two days to seven days. Thus the lead quorum sensing antagonist discovered in this work is capable of specifically disrupting quorum sensing directed pathogenicity in a wild type bacterium and in so doing improve the outcome of a nematode animal host in the model system.

Described herein is the use of mice as an animal burn infection model to determine the stability and efficacy of the experimental compounds in treating vertebrate infections of burn wounds. The mouse burn infection model is well established in the scientific literature for the bacterium . Many variations of this method have been developed for other virulent bacteria that often cause skin infections.

The protocol described in this example is a variation of the original burned mouse model by Stieritz and Holder 1975 using a water scald method to thermally injure the mice rather than the original ethanol burn method Rumbaugh et al. 1999 . Swiss Webster adult female mice weighing between 20 and 24 grams are used. The mice are anesthetized with intraperitoneal injection of 0.4 ml of 5 sodium pentobarbital solution. The back of the mouse is shaved and the mouse is placed into a plastic template that contains a 4.5 by 1.8 cm opening which is positioned over the shaved back. The exposed surface of the back is placed in 90 C. water for 10 seconds. This induces a full thickness burn on the back of the mouse resulting in a burn area that encompasses approximately 15 of the entire surface area of the mouse. The burn area is immediately rehydrated by subcutaneous injection of 0.8 ml of sterile 0.9 NaCl solution. As controls one group of animals is shaved on the back of the mouse anesthetized and placed into the plastic template but is not thermally injured.

The thermally injured mice are divided into four subgroups non infected non infected treated infected and infected treated. The infected animals are challenged with 100 L of inocula of either or suspended in phosphate buffered saline and administered topically or injected subcutaneously at the anterior edge of the wound. The non infected animals receive a 100 L dose of phosphate buffered saline administered topically or injected subcutaneously. The compounds tested for quorum sensing inhibition are individually injected subcutaneously at the wound site or applied topically as an ointment. In another variation combinations of the compounds are administered. The quorum sensing inhibitors are administered at regular intervals e.g. every 4 hours .

Generally bacterial virulence is measured by an endpoint assay however an alternative method is as follows. The mice are euthanized at 24 hours post burn. Skin sections of 5 by 5 mm are obtained from the burn area of all groups. The heart liver and spleen are obtained to determine the bacterial load associated with each tissue sample. The LDfor inocula in mice is determined. To do this serial dilutions of are plated on agar petri plates to determine the colony forming units in each dilution. Five mice are infected as described above for each dilution. Onset of infection is monitored and infected animals are immediately euthanized. The LDof is less than 10 colony forming units. To evaluate the general toxicity of the quorum sensing inhibitors the LDof the compounds is determined by administering the compounds as described in the protocol.

