---

title: Multi-function smart communication card
abstract: Various embodiments are described that relate to a smart card. When not connected to an external system, such as a laptop computer, the smart card can be configured to power itself. Thus, various functions can be practiced on the smart card in absence of connection to the external system. Example functions of the smart card can include user identification and authorization. In addition, the smart card can be configured to distinguish between different users and provide different access levels to different users and/or difference access to containers resident within the smart card. This can be done prior to when the smart card is connected to the external system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654470&OS=09654470&RS=09654470
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09654470
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150930
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to the United States patent application that was filed on Jul. 14 2014 with a Ser. No. 14 330 051 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 177 133 and that application is hereby incorporated by reference.

The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

A company can use a computer system to provide various capabilities to their employees. One such capability can be to provide access to computer files such as word processing documents. However the content of these word processing documents may be sensitive with regard to company operation client details etc. Therefore the company can attempt to limit admission to the word processing documents. One way of limiting admission is through a password system such that a specific word processing document cannot be accessed without entry of a certain password. When the certain password is entered a user of a computer station can be granted admission with regard to the specific word processing document.

In one embodiment a system comprises a smart card and a power component. The power component can be part of the smart card. In addition the power component can be configured to supply power to the smart card sufficient to power the smart card absent power from an external source.

In one embodiment a system comprises an input component and an identification component that are both resident on a smart card. The input component is to collect an input while the identification component is to perform an identification of a particular user associated with the smart card from among at least a potential first user or a potential second user that are different from one another. The identification can be based at least in part on the input while the particular user can be provided access control to an external structure associated with the smart card after the identification meets a standard.

In one embodiment a smart card can comprise a power component an identification component a first access component and a second access component. The power component can supply power to the smart card sufficient to power the smart card in absence of power from an external source. The identification component can obtain an identification of a particular user associated with the smart card. The first access component can grant the particular user access to a first secure network that requires a first credential for access in response to the particular user being identified. The second access component can grant the particular user access to a second secure network that requires a second credential for access in response to the particular user being identified. The first secure network and the second secure network can be different from one another while the first credential and the second credential can be separate from one another.

A smart card can be a user issued device employed to provide access to at least part of a computer system. The smart card is a card with an embedded integrated circuit e.g. such as a card that is pocket sized . The embedded integrated circuit may be visible on the outside of the card or within the card and not outwardly visible. A computer device can access a smart card through a variety of manners such as through use of a slot capable of receiving the smart card identifying when a smartcard is within vicinity etc. When the smart card is inserted into the slot the computer device can provide power to the smart card and the smart card can cause a prompt to be displayed upon a display of the computer device. The prompt can ask the user of the smart card for a password that is entered by way of computer device hardware such as a keyboard. If the user enters the correct password then the user can be given access to at least part of the computer system.

In accordance with aspects disclosed herein a smart card can have various functions that go beyond providing access for a single user to a computer system. In one example the smart card can be configured to power itself such as through use of a smart card battery powered by solar energy obtained from a solar panel of the smart card. In one example the smart card can be non user specific such that multiple users can use a single smart card. Access granted by the non user specific smart card can be to different users and the access provided to these different users can be different based on which user is given access. Therefore a smart card can be employed with multiple functions.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

The power component can be part of the smart card . The power component can be configured to supply power to the smart card sufficient to power the smart card in absence of power from an external source. Sufficient to power the smart card can include a level of power to power the smart card for a non de minimis period of time e.g. longer than a brief period after exiting a computer where the smart card may still be powered a level of power to power one or more functions of the smart card etc.

In one embodiment the smart card is configured to self power. Various types of self powering can occur. In one example the smart card can be configured with a solar panel set e.g. one or more devices capable of obtaining solar energy . Energy collected by the solar panel set can be immediately used by the smart card and or be retained in a battery for later usage. In one example the power component can practice intelligent powering. With this intelligent charging the power component can check if the smart card is connected to an external source such as a computer system. If the smart card is connected to the external source then the smart card can attempt to draw power from the external source e.g. draw power request power to be drawn check if power is available etc. . If the smart card is not connected to the external source then the power component can use its own power to function if available e.g. from a battery capacitor super capacitor etc. .

In one embodiment the smart card is configured to communicate by way of a first platform and a second platform. The smart card can wirelessly communicate with the external system and or a wired configuration e.g. by way of the chip interfacing with the external system . Different platforms can be used such as Bluetooth and Near Field Communication e.g. Bluetooth is the first platform and Near Field Communication NFC is the second platform . Communication with the different platforms can occur concurrently and or alternatively. In one example the smart card can communicate with a first device by way of Bluetooth and a second device that is different from the first device by way of NFC. In addition the smart card can receive a NFC signal from a near field communication reader and the power component can use modulation from the reader to condition the NFC signal to provide power to the smart card . While aspects disclosed herein address the smart card being a physical card the smart card can function in other embodiments such as a smart token e.g. functioning as a flash drive .

The identification component can be configured to perform an identification of a particular user associated with the smart card . In one example the smart card can be associated with a single user e.g. a computer system assigns the smart card to the single user and the single user s image is on the smart card as user image of . In one example the smart card can be associated with multiple users e.g. the smart card is configured to be used by two different users the smart card is configured to be operated by a user that provides a password etc. . When the smart card is associated with multiple users the smart card can be configured to differentiate different users among the multiple users such that the smart card operates in a specific manner for a particular user. The particular user can be provided access control to the smart card e.g. the smart card itself a computer network to which the smart card engages etc. after the identification meets a standard e.g. the user is on an approved user list the user provides a correct password etc. .

The smart card can employ various features and or hardware to assist the identification component in performing the identification. One example piece of hardware can be a fingerprint scanner e.g. thumbprint scanner palm print scanner etc. . The fingerprint scanner can be configured to obtain a fingerprint scan of the particular user. The identification component performs the identification through use of the fingerprint scan. In one example the particular user can place their thumb on the fingerprint scanner . The fingerprint scanner scans their thumbprint and the identification component compares the thumbprint with a list of authorized thumbprints e.g. the list is retained on the smart card the list is retained at a remote location etc. . If the thumbprint successfully matches an authorized thumbprint then access can be granted to the particular user while otherwise the identification component can provide a denial.

Another aspect that can be employed is the voice obtainment component . The voice obtainment component can be configured to obtain a voice and the identification component performs the identification through use of the voice. In one example the voice obtainment component can comprise a microphone and a module to convert what is recorded by the microphone into an electronic record. For example the particular user can speak into the microphone and an electronic record can be made. This speech can be specific terms e.g. how the user states a keyword or general terms e.g. focus on the user s voice . The electronic record can be compared with a known voice record to determine if the speaker is authorized to use the smart card . If the comparison results in a successful match then access can be granted to the particular user otherwise a rejection can be provided.

In one embodiment the biometric data sensor can be configured to obtain biometric data of the particular user. The identification from the identification component can be performed through use of the biometric data e.g. face recognition DNA hand geometry iris recognition scent etc. . Similar to what is discussed above a comparison can be made with known data of the particular user and based on a result access can be granted or denied.

In one embodiment multiple verifications for identification can occur. The smart card can employ a first identification component and a second identification component e.g. two separate and distinct components a single component functioning with multiple roles etc. . The first identification component can be configured to perform a first identification of the particular user associated with the smart card by way of a first identification manner e.g. through use of the fingerprint scanner . The second identification component can be configured to perform a second identification of the particular user associated with the smart card by way of a second identification manner e.g. through use of the voice obtainment component different from the first identification manner.

Depending on the manner of identification used different access control can be given. In one example a computer system can have two classifications of documents sensitive e.g. client lists and non sensitive e.g. paid holiday list . Fingerprint based identification can be considered a more secure form of identification than voice based identification. Therefore when fingerprint based identification occurs a first level of access control can be provided by way of the smart card e.g. access to the sensitive and non sensitive documents . However when voice based identification occurs a second level of access control can be provided by way of the smart card e.g. access to the non sensitive documents but not to the sensitive documents . Thus the first level of access control can be distinct from the second level of access control. In one embodiment before access control is given with regard to the smart card e.g. to the smart card itself to a system with which the smart card engages etc. two manners of identification are required e.g. voice based identification and fingerprint based identification .

In one embodiment the smart card can be loaded with multiple credentials. An individual credential can be associated with a particular user. When the identification is that the particular user is a first user associated with a first credential retained by the smart card then the first credential is used for access control. Similarly when the identification is that the particular user is a second user that is different from the first user and is associated with a second credential retained by the smart card then the second credential that is different from the first credential is used for access control. Different credentials with different access levels can be loaded onto the smart card . In addition to being user specific the different credentials can have different access control e.g. different levels to one system access control to different systems etc. . When a particular user provides identification information e.g. has their fingerprint scanned the identification component can identify the user and prompt the credential associated with that user to be activated. In one example the particular user can enter the smart card into a computer configuration e.g. laptop computer computer network mobile device etc. to access the computer configuration. The identification component can identify the user and provide the user the appropriate credential e.g. the first credential . The first credential can enable a first level of access e.g. for the first user while the second credential can enable the second user a second level of access e.g. for the second user that is distinct from the first level of access. In one embodiment the first credential and the second credential can be used concurrently or usage can be restricted to single credential usage at one time.

In one embodiment the access control to the smart card e.g. access to data retained on the smart card and ability to control function and or use of the smart card is configured to be provided prior to the smart card engaging with an external structure and or after the smart card engaging with the external system. In one example the particular user can place her thumb on the fingerprint scanner . After being identified she can place the smart card into a keyboard with a smart card receiver e.g. the smart card is inserted into the smart card receiver the smart card engages with the smart card receiver wirelessly etc. . Once the smart card is engaged with the smart card receiver the particular user can have access control to the external system e.g. a computer a server a personal electronic device a network . Thus access control to the smart card can facilitate access control to the external structure when the smart card engages with the external structure e.g. engages with the smart card receiver .

The smart card can comprise the display which can perform various functions. The display can provide instructions to a user on how to gain access control to the smart card and or a system with which the smart card engages. Various components can use the display and or function in conjunction with the display . In one example the identification component can use the display in accordance with performance of the identification. The identification component can be configured to perform an identification of a candidate user e.g. the particular user associated with the smart card . The candidate user can be provided access control to the smart card after the identification is successful. The identification can be performed through use of information supplied by the candidate user by way of entrance of a swipe pattern upon the smart card e.g. upon the display . Thus the candidate user may not be previously known by the smart card but merely able to supply entry information. In one example a set of icons can appear on the display and when the particular user engages one or more of the icons in a set pattern the particular user is given access control e.g. access to the smart card and or external structure. Multiple components and or other items can combine together such as the display functioning as the fingerprint scanner . The display can display data from the smart card the external system etc.

In one embodiment the access component can be configured to grant the particular user access to a first secure network that requires a first credential for access and simultaneously grant the particular user access to a second secure network that is different from the first secure network that requires a second credential that is different from the first credential for access. The smart card can store in memory a plurality of credentials. The credentials can be specific to a user and or specific to a network. Thus the smart card can retain and function with a first credential for a first user used to access a first network and a second credential for a second user to access a second network.

In one embodiment the smart card can function with the speech recognition component that is configured to recognize a speech of a speaker e.g. the particular user . The smart card can facilitate use of the speech and or raw speech data can be collected by the speech recognition component and actual speech recognition occurs elsewhere form the smart card . In one example the particular user can speak a command that is captured and processed by the speech recognition component and then followed by the smart card . The command could be connect with network ABC123. In one example the speech recognition component can function such that as the particular user speaks the speech is recorded as text and shown on the display . Received audio can be digitized and sent to a speech recognition algorithm of the speech recognition component . After being processed speech information can be sent to a text algorithm of the display where text is displayed. Speech can also be translated by the speech recognition component e.g. speech spoken and received in English can be translated and presented on the display in Spanish . The smart card can be configured such that speech is not recognized until access control is provided e.g. an authorized user is identified and or speech recognition is limited to the speech of the authorized user.

The identification component can obtain an identification of a particular user associated with the smart card . In one embodiment obtainment of the identification occurs through a first obtainment by way of a first identification manner and a second obtainment by way of a second identification manner. In one example the first obtainment manner can be voice recognition and the second obtainment manner can be through entering a password and as such the manners can be different from one another. Different configurations can apply such as when one of the two manners being successful indicates successful identification and after identification access control can be provided to the particular user. In one configuration identification is obtained when a result of the first obtainment matches with a result of the second obtainment e.g. both manners successfully identify the particular user and thus access control can be limited until both manners are successful. In one example a candidate provides a swipe pattern on the display of . If the candidate is successful then the display of converts into a fingerprint scanner of and the candidate supplies a fingerprint. Thus one manner e.g. fingerprint scanning occurs after successful completion of another manner e.g. the swipe pattern .

The first access component can grant the particular user access to a first secure network that requires a first credential for access in response to the particular user being identified. Similarly the second access component can grant the particular user access to a second secure network that is different from the first network that requires a second credential that is different from the first credential for access in response to the particular user being identified. Therefore the smart card can function with multiple credentials e.g. that apply to different users or are for the same user and well as function with different secure networks e.g. two networks that are from the same company two networks of different companies etc. .

In one embodiment the smart card communicates by way of a first platform to a first external system e.g. first laptop computer first network etc. and a second platform to a second external system different from the first external system e.g. second laptop second personal electronic device etc. . The communication can include access control. The communication can occur concurrently and or be restricted to single usage.

In one example a set of three shift workers e.g. 8 AM 4 PM 4 PM 12 AM and 12 AM to 8 AM can share one smart card . The smart card can be used to access a piece of manufacturing machinery used by the shift workers during their respective shifts. The individual shift workers can input identifier information and from this identifier information the identification component can identify which user is using the smart card and in turn the machinery. Information pertaining to individual performance of the shift worker such as efficiency and proper machine usage can be monitored through use of the smart card . In one example the smart card can remain with the machinery and when workers change shifts the old worker can log out and or the new worker can log in e.g. be identified and be given access control to the machinery . In one example a shift worker can keep a smart card in his pocket after being identified. Access control can be provided to different machines when the shift work is within a close enough physical proximity for the smart card to communicate with the particular machine and as such facilitate access control for the particular machine.

In one embodiment the smart card comprising the power component of . Thus the smart card can power itself such as through use of a solar panel e.g. panel that obtains power from a solar source such as the sun or artificial lighting . The power component can have a connector to be charged by way of an electrical outlet and or through use of a replaceable battery. The power component can provide power sufficient to power the smart card in absence of power from an external source where the power component obtains the supplied power from a solar source.

In one example the pressure sensitive nature of the outer layer can facilitate when fingerprint scanning occurs with regard to identification e.g. the entire outer layer is the display that can function as the scanner . The memory e.g. random access memory non volatile memory etc. can retain encrypted information such as a fingerprint database for allowable users of the smart card . In one example the secure container set is part of the memory and individual authorized users have individual containers with person information e.g. fingerprint information biometric information password information etc. . The memory can securely store data and work in conjunction with various other parts of the smart card . In one example the biometric data sensor of can be used to acquire biometric data that becomes part of a biometric database e.g. stored in the memory stored off the smart card etc. . The smart card can employ the memory in functioning as an access control storage device e.g. rule and or role based for storing and or retrieving data.

While shown as part of the smart card the secure container set can be located remotely from the smart card . The secure container set can be one or more containers that retain sensitive information. In one example a military tank crew can comprise four members. One smart card can be used for the tank where the smart card has four secure containers one for each crew member. The secure containers can include identifying credentials access credentials medical history etc. In one example a tank crew member can suffer from a disease that is considered private information. The secure container for that member can retain disease information and access for the secure container medical information can be restricted such that access is limited to personnel that have their own smart card communicate with the smart card e.g. wirelessly that identifies the requestor as medical personnel.

The scanner can scan a fingerprint of a potential user. The processor can facilitate communication with an external database for comparison of the fingerprint scan with known fingerprints to determine if the fingerprint is recognizable e.g. comparison occurs on the smart card or at another location such that the fingerprint scan is sent to a computer system . The processor can attempt to compare with what is retained on the smart card and if not then a second comparison can be made where presumably more fingerprints may be available e.g. when an off card comparison is successful the compared print is retained on the smart card .

When identification of a user is successful e.g. a candidate user is determined to be authorized to use the smart card and or the external system the smart card can set up a secure tunnel with the endpoint e.g. the tunnel can be established by one or more communication platforms such a Bluetooth . The endpoint can exchange credentials with the smart card and cause the smart card to be unlocked. If identification is not successful the candidate user can be asked to perform another attempt. After a predetermined number of unsuccessfully authentications the smart card can tamper or be locked such that administrative login can used to reset the smart card .

In one embodiment the smart card has minimal functionality and function to obtain information used in identification where the actual identification occurs at the endpoint . In one example the smart card and the endpoint have a pre identification secure tunnel established. The display of can receive a swipe pattern. The smart card then encrypts a digitized version of the received swipe pattern and sends the digitized pattern to the endpoint . The endpoint can identify the user and once successfully identified the endpoint can be unlocked for use by the candidate user.

In one embodiment identification functionality can be split between the smart card and the endpoint . A user can unlock the smart card with a swipe patter and once the smart card is unlocked the secure tunnel can be established between the smart card and the endpoint e.g. established using NFC Bluetooth or a combination thereof . In one example two matches can be used to provide a candidate user access control to the smart card and or the endpoint e.g. the endpoint being an external structure . The smart card can scan a user s fingerprint and compare it with a local database. If the comparison is not successful then an error message can be generated and displayed on the smart card . If the comparison is successful e.g. the user is identified then the fingerprint can be sent to the endpoint for another comparison. If the endpoint comparison is not successful then the smart card can generate and display the error message. If the endpoint comparison is successful then the smart card can grant access control e.g. access control to a physical location access control to a data storage location etc. .

In one embodiment the smart card is used to engage with a remote network. When user identification is successful the smart card can unlock the endpoint and then the endpoint and or the smart card can negotiate with the secure network to establish at least one secure tunnel. In one example the user can initiate establishment of the at least one secure tunnel by way of the smart card and or the endpoint . Credentials can be encrypted and passed in one example between the smart card and the endpoint and then the endpoint and the remote network. The secure network can request a user credential e.g. login and password certificate biometric data obtained by the biometric data sensor of security token physical switch of the smart card capacitive touch combination etc. in order to establish the secure tunnel. In one example re identification can occur e.g. periodically such as re identification requested by the remote network where continued access control to the smart card the endpoint the remote network or a combination thereof can be cancelled if re identification is not successful.

An example network to which access control can be granted by way of the smart card can include a device set to grant or deny access based on a credential. Architecture of the network can comprise access points that communicate with a central database to verify credentials and or manage permissions e.g. through use of strong encryption algorithms . The smart card can be moved to within a communication distance of an access point. When within the communication distance of the access point the smart card can receive a query for a credential. When the smart card is activated e.g. after identification the credential can be sent in response to the query. Once the credential is received and or validated access can be provided to the network.

The smart card and the network e.g. that includes the endpoint can communicate with one another once access control is provided to a user of the smart card such as the smart card providing location information to the network. In this the network can track the physical movements of the particular user e.g. in an emergency situation location of the particular user can be quickly found . If the particular user enters a restricted area to which she does not have access e.g. tracked through the smart card in her pocket then a notification can be presented such as on the display of through a wall loudspeaker on a door display etc. Thus the smart card can be used as an access control device for entering and or exiting facilities.

In one example a working level employee can be given access to a first secure container of the secure container set of while a management level employee can be given access to the first secure container and a second secure container of the secure container set of . An employee can provide identification information at and at a determination can be made whether the employee is authorized and if so then what level of access the employee should reach. At a determination can be made that the working level employee is attempting to gain access control. Based on this determination at the working level employee access can be granted and as such the employee can have access to the first secure container but not the second secure container.

