---

title: Methods for alleviating statin myopathy
abstract: Disclosed herein are methods and compositions for alleviating side effects of statin administration, such as myopathic or myalgic side effects, short-term memory loss, abnormal liver function, glucose intolerance, hyperglycemia, increased risk for diabetes, or cumulative trauma disorder, comprising administration of β-hydroxy β-methylbutyrate (HMB) to an individual taking a statin. Also disclosed are methods and compositions for alleviating acute rhabdomyolysis comprising administration of HMB. The disclosure further provides uses of HMB in combination with a statin to alleviate side effects of statin administration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09399026&OS=09399026&RS=09399026
owner: 
number: 09399026
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150914
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2015 023102 filed Mar. 27 2015 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 971 072 filed Mar. 27 2014 the disclosures of both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

HMG CoA reductase inhibitors commonly known as statins are a class of drugs used to lower cholesterol levels by inhibiting the enzyme HMG CoA reductase which catalyzes the rate limiting conversion of HMG CoA into mevalonate by HMG CoA reductase during de novo cholesterol biosynthesis. Statins are used primarily to treat hyperlipidemias and are the most effective lipid lowering drugs currently available. They have also been shown to exhibit pleiotropic effects and may have potential uses in the treatment of other conditions such as diabetes depression cancer osteoporosis ventricular arrhythmias peripheral arterial disease and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.

Side effects of statins include myopathy including myalgia increased risk of diabetes short term memory loss cumulative trauma disorder and abnormalities in liver enzyme tests. Myopathy is the most common side effect with symptoms that can include muscle fatigue weakness pain and rhabdomyolysis i.e. the breakdown of muscle fibers that leads to the release of muscle fiber contents inter alia myoglobin into the bloodstream . Rhabdomyolysis is rare occurring in 0.1 of patients the occurrence of other myopathic symptoms has been estimated at 1 5 of patients in controlled studies using selected patients with 35 of eligible patients excluded LaRosa et al. 2005 352 1425 35 . An observational study PRIMO involving 7924 French unselected outpatients on statin therapy reported 10.5 of statin users experienced statin related myalgia myopathy Bruckert et al. 2005 19 403 14 . Other observational studies have estimated that 9 20 of statin users experience statin related muscle symptoms. Physical exercise appears to exacerbate the incidence of myalgia with as many as 25 of statin users who exercise experiencing muscle fatigue weakness aches and cramping.

Thus there is a need in the art to improve treatment of statin related diseases and disorders by alleviating said deleterious side effects.

This disclosure provides certain advantages and advancements over the prior art in particular methods for alleviating statin induced myopathy and or myalgia SIM comprising administering hydroxy methylbutyrate HMB to an individual taking a statin. In alternative embodiments the disclosure provides methods for alleviating myopathy and or myalgia such as acute rhabdomyolysis in individuals not taking a statin comprising administering HMB.

In one aspect the disclosure provides methods for alleviating one or more side effects of statin administration comprising supplementing statin administration with administration of a therapeutically effective amount of hydroxy methylbutyrate HMB . In some embodiments the one or more side effects of statin administration are any one or a plurality of myopathic or myalgic side effects short term memory loss abnormal liver function glucose intolerance hyperglycemia increased risk for diabetes or cumulative trauma disorder. In some embodiments HMB is administered at a dosage of approximately 1 to 6 grams day or otherwise at a dosage of approximately 2 to 4 grams day. In some embodiments HMB is administered at a dosage of approximately 3.0 grams day. In some embodiments HMB is administered at a dosage of approximately 2 grams taken twice a day. In particular embodiments the invention provides pharmaceutical formulations of HMB comprising a therapeutically effective amount thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable excipients diluents or other formulating agents. In some embodiments the statin is atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin or simvastatin. In some embodiments the statin is rosuvastatin.

In another aspect the disclosure provides methods for alleviating acute rhabdomyolysis comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of hydroxy methylbutyrate HMB .

In another aspect the disclosure provides pharmaceutical formulations comprising a statin and a myopathic or myalgic statin side effect alleviating amount of hydroxy methylbutyrate HMB . In some embodiments the statin is atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin or simvastatin. In some embodiments the statin is rosuvastatin.

In another aspect the disclosure provides uses of HMB in combination with a statin to alleviate one or more side effects of statin administration. In some embodiments the one or more side effects of statin administration are myopathic or myalgic side effects short term memory loss elevated alanine transaminase ALT or aspartate transaminase AST levels glucose intolerance hyperglycemia increased risk for diabetes or cumulative trauma disorder. In some embodiments the statin is atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin or simvastatin.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed description of the invention taken together with the accompanying claims. It is noted that the scope of the claims is defined by the recitations therein and not by the specific discussion of features and advantages set forth in the present description.

All publications patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby expressly incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Before describing the present invention in detail a number of terms will be defined. As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example reference to a protein means one or more proteins.

It is noted that terms like preferably commonly and typically are not utilized herein to limit the scope of the claimed invention or to imply that certain features are critical essential or even important to the structure or function of the claimed invention. Rather these terms are merely intended to highlight alternative or additional features that can or cannot be utilized in a particular embodiment of the present invention.

For the purposes of describing and defining the present invention it is noted that the term substantially is utilized herein to represent the inherent degree of uncertainty that can be attributed to any quantitative comparison value measurement or other representation. The term substantially is also utilized herein to represent the degree by which a quantitative representation can vary from a stated reference without resulting in a change in the basic function of the subject matter at issue.

As used herein the term statin refers to a 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A HMG CoA reductase inhibitor. Statins block the rate limiting step in de novo cholesterol biosynthesis namely the conversion of HMG CoA into mevalonate by HMG CoA reductase. Statins are used primarily as cholesterol lowering specifically low density lipoprotein LDL lowering medications to treat hyperlipidemias such as hypercholesterolemia. Examples of statins with brand names and typical daily adult dose ranges provided in parentheses include atorvastatin LIPITOR 10 80 mg fluvastatin LESCOL 20 80 mg lovastatin MEVACOR 10 80 mg pitavastatin LIVALO 1 4 mg pravastatin PRAVACHOL 10 80 mg rosuvastatin CRESTOR 5 20 mg and simvastatin ZOCOR 5 80 mg .

The following disclosure is provided without being limited to any mechanism and solely to explicate what is understood in the art regarding statin mediated decrease in circulating LDL. LDL B apo lipoprotein B is a lipid carrier molecule manufactured in the liver that is highly atherogenic. LDL B levels are regulated by liver LDL receptors that bind to circulating LDL particles resulting in their absorption and ultimate destruction in liver. The greater the density of LDL receptor sites on liver cell hepatocyte surfaces the lower the level of LDL B cholesterol in circulation. PCSK9 proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 is a glycoprotein expressed by the liver that degrades LDL receptors. When this occurs LDL B levels rise in circulation. Statins by inhibiting HMG CoA reductase reduce intra cellular cholesterol production in the hepatocyte in turn activating SREBP 2 sterol regulatory element binding protein 2 . This pathway then upregulates hepatic LDL receptor sites increasing liver clearance of circulatory LDL B. Although statins also upregulate PCSK9 levels by 7 this increase is more than offset by the upregulation of SREBP 2 resulting in a net decrease in LDL B particles in solution.

Statins also exert an effect on myocytes skeletal muscle cells by interfering with intra cellular cholesterol synthesis an activity that has no relationship to circulating LDL B levels. HMB is a metabolite of an essential amino acid branch chain amino acid leucine and while it is taken up by myocytes it is not stored in hepatocytes. For this reason HMB can unexpectedly be used concurrently with statin agents without subverting the hepatic effect of statins in lowering LDL B cholesterol.

As used herein the terms side effect peripheral effect and secondary effect are interchangeable and refer to effects or symptoms caused by a drug medication or pharmaceutical other than its primary intended effect or indication.

As used herein the terms myopathy and myopathic refer to muscle damage dysfunction or disease wherein muscle fibers do not function properly for any one of many reasons resulting in for example muscle weakness muscle cramps muscle spasms muscle stiffness or elevation of creatine kinase CK or CPK levels in blood. For example myositis may be assessed when CK levels rise above a certain amount such as above a 1 to 10 fold upper limit of normal ULN . In some cases muscle symptoms might be observed without a concomitant elevation in CK levels. In other cases CK levels might be elevated without muscle symptoms.

As used herein the term rhabdomyolysis refers to a type of myopathy involving the release of muscle cell products into the bloodstream following muscle cell damage. Some of these muscle cell products such as myoglobin are harmful to the kidneys and may lead to kidney damage or kidney failure. Rhabdomyolysis can also result in disseminated intravascular coagulation and or death. Rhabdomyolysis might be defined for example by CK levels above 10 000 IU liter or above a 10 fold ULN with an elevation in serum creatinine or a need for hydration therapy. Rhabdomyolysis may be statin induced or non statin induced. For example in some cases rhabdomyolysis is induced by intense exercise. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein HMB administration is used to treat rhabdomyolysis induced by statin administration. In some embodiments HMB administration is used to treat non statin induced rhabdomyolysis.

As used herein the terms myalgia and myalgic refer to muscle pain which may be a symptom of many diseases and disorders including myopathy.

Myopathy and or myalgia are the most common side effects associated with the use of statins. Symptoms of statin induced myopathy include any combination of muscle pain muscle weakness or muscle tenderness such as an aching or cramping sensation in muscles. Tendon pain and nocturnal leg cramping are other possible symptoms. Statin induced myopathies are typically exacerbated by exercise thus athletes are frequently particularly intolerant to statin therapy. The incidence of statin induced myopathy or myotoxicity is estimated as about 1.5 5 in randomized control clinical trials.

The pathology of statin induced myopathy is not fully understood particularly because multiple pathophysiological mechanisms may contribute to statin myotoxicity. Without being limited to these or any other explanations of how the invention may work or the biochemical or physiological mechanisms or explanations thereof these mechanisms include statin induced alterations in muscular membrane composition isoprenoid and ubiquinone synthesis mitochondrial function calcium homeostasis rate of apoptosis and atrogin 1 induction.

The lipid bilayer of many cell membranes consists not only of phospholipids but also cholesterol and glycolipids. Eukaryotic plasma membranes contain especially large amounts of cholesterol up to one cholesterol molecule for every phospholipid molecule. Cholesterol is thus an integral cell membrane component. Cholesterol molecules enhance the permeability barrier properties of the lipid bilayer and modulate the fluidity of cell membranes including the membranes of muscle cells. Membrane bound cholesterol molecules orient themselves in the bilayer with their hydroxyl groups toward the polar head groups of the phospholipid molecules . In this position cholesterol s rigid plate like steroid rings interact with and partly immobilize those regions of the phospholipid hydrocarbon chains closest to the polar head groups. By decreasing the mobility of the first few CHgroups of the phospholipid hydrocarbon chains cholesterol makes the lipid bilayer less deformable in this region and thereby decreases the permeability of the bilayer to small water soluble molecules. Although cholesterol tends to make lipid bilayers less fluid at the high concentrations found in most eukaryotic plasma membranes it also prevents component hydrocarbon chains from coming together and crystallizing. In this way it inhibits possible phase transitions. Because statins interfere with cholesterol biosynthesis they also affect myocyte membrane fluidity. Alterations in membrane fluidity in turn can affect membrane ion channel function which plays an integral role in membrane excitability. For example chloride channels in skeletal muscle membranes control resting membrane potential and membrane repolarization. Thus statin induced depletion of cholesterol likely disturbs muscle cell function.

According to the isoprenoid synthesis mechanism statins may cause myopathy by inhibiting synthesis of isoprenoids for which mevalonate is a precursor. Statin induced depletion of isoprenoids may in turn disturb cellular respiration causing myopathy. Under the calcium homeostatis theory of statin induced myopathy statin mediated depletion of isoprenoids leads to decreased inhibition of calcium ion Ca channels in muscle cells which results in impaired calcium ion homeostasis and impaired myocyte function. Other possible mechanisms of statin induced myopathy are related to statins pleiotropic effects which are cholesterol independent effects of statins. These pleiotropic effects include statin mediated improvement in endothelial function stabilization of atherosclerotic plaques decreases in oxidative stress and inflammation and inhibition of thrombogenic responses. However statins can also trigger skeletal muscle apoptosis i.e. programmed cell death and thus myopathy. Statin induced myopathy may also be caused through induction by any statin of atrogin 1 a human gene that induces muscle pathology directly and is activated by inhibition of the geranasylgeranasyl isoprenoid pathway part of the cholesterol synthesis cascade obstructed by statins. See Cao et al. 2009 23 9 2844 54. 

Statin myopathy appears only in a subset of muscle fibers. In general the human body consists of a 1 1 ratio of Type 1 aerobic slow twitch muscle fibers and Type 2 anaerobic fast twitch muscle fibers. All muscle fibers require cholesterol for cellular repair. Type 2 fibers express LDL receptors which enable absorption of circulating cholesterol see Takeda et al. 2014 81 94 99 . Type 1 fibers which are used in ordinary activities such as standing and walking lack LDL receptors and are thus dependent on intracellular cholesterol synthesis a process inhibited by statin agents. The resulting deficit in cellular cholesterol in Type 1 fibers can lead to statin myopathy.

As used herein the terms HMB hydroxy methylbutyric acid hydroxy methylbutyrate 3 hydroxy 3 methylbutanoic acid 3 hydroxy 3 methyl butyrate hydroxyisovaleric acid and 3 hydroxyisovaleric acid are interchangeable and refer to the compound of formula I 

The role of HMB in metabolism of leucine into cholesterol is shown in . It takes about 60 grams of leucine to produce 1 gram of HMB therefore leucine supplements are ineffective as a source of HMB.

Toxicologically the No Observed Adverse Effect Level NOAEL the highest dose not associated with any toxic signs for HMB oral ingestion in rats is 3490 mg kg for male rats and 4160 mg kg for female rats see Baxter et al. 2005 43 12 1731 41 . This is an estimated human equivalent of 558 mg kg and 665 mg kg for men and women respectively assuming a body weight of 150 lbs equates to 38 g males and 45 g females . Human toxicological studies have shown that approximately 6 g HMB daily 78 mg kg for one month in untrained young males subject to exercise did not show any toxic effects on serum parameters half the dose had a spontaneous increase in basophils considered to be insignificant and 3 g of HMB daily for up to 8 weeks in both youth and older persons has similarly failed to alter toxicological parameters in serum. This dose has been shown to be safe for one year of administration see Gallagher et al. 2000 December 32 12 2116 19 Nissen et al. 2000 August 130 8 1937 45 . Overall standard doses of HMB appear to be well tolerated over long periods of time.

As the person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate HMB can be provided as an HMB derivative or prodrug depending e.g. on the desired end properties of the compositions and methods. For example HMB may be modified with a suitable prodrug group that metabolizes or otherwise transforms under conditions of use to yield HMB. In one embodiment HMB may be modified at the carboxylic acid moiety with a suitable group that can be hydrolyzed. In these embodiments HMB is provided for example as an ester or a lactone. Suitable HMB esters include but are not limited to methyl ester ethyl ester and isopropyl ester. Exemplary non limiting HMB lactone includes isovalaryl lactone. HMB may also be modified at the hydroxy moiety for example with an acetate group. HMB derivatives to be used for the compositions and methods of the present disclosure are within the skill of the person skilled in the art using routine trial and experimentation. In some embodiments HMB derivatives or prodrugs are used in the compositions and methods disclosed herein in order to provide delayed or sustained release of HMB.

As used herein the term hydrate refers to a compound that is complexed with at least one water molecule. For example HMB monohydrate refers to a molecule of HMB complexed with one water molecule.

As used herein the term alleviate refers to the amelioration or lessening of the severity of a side effect or symptom or substantially eliminating said side effect or symptom.

As used herein the term administer or administration refers to oral po administration administration as a suppository topical contact intravenous iv intraperitoneal ip intramuscular im intralesional intranasal or subcutaneous sc administration or the implantation of a slow release device e.g. a mini osmotic pump to an individual. Administration can be by any route including parenteral and transmucosal e.g. oral nasal vaginal rectal or transdermal . Parenteral administration includes e.g. intravenous intramuscular intra arteriole intradermal subcutaneous intraperitoneal intraventricular and intracranial. Other modes of delivery include but are not limited to the use of liposomal formulations intravenous infusion transdermal patches and equivalent methods and modalities know to those of skill in the art.

As used herein the term co administer refers to administering more than one pharmaceutical agent to a patient. In some embodiments co administered pharmaceutical agents are administered together in a single dosage unit. In some embodiments co administered pharmaceutical agents are administered separately. In some embodiments co administered pharmaceutical agents are administered at the same time. In some embodiments co administered pharmaceutical agents are administered at different times.

The term pharmaceutical formulation refers to a preparation which is in such form as to permit a biological activity of an active ingredient to be effective and which contains no additional components which are unacceptably toxic to a subject to which the formulation would be administered.

As used herein the terms extended release sustained release or controlled release refer to compositions that are characterized by having at least one active component having a release profile over an extended period of time in contrast to immediate release pharmaceutical formulations. In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein release their active components over a period of about 6 hours to about 72 hours or about 12 hours to about 48 hours or about 12 hours to about 36 hours or about 18 hours to about 30 hours or about 24 hours. In some embodiments the active component is released over a time period such that the composition can be administered to a subject once a day for example over 24 hours.

In some embodiments the active ingredients of the compositions and methods disclosed herein are formulated in free acid or free base form. For example in some embodiments HMB is formulated as HMB free acid. In some embodiments HMB free acid is administered orally or sublingually as a gel.

In some embodiments the active ingredients of the compositions and methods disclosed herein are formulated as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts of the compounds of the present invention derived from the combination of such compounds and a pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic acid acid addition salts or a pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic base base addition salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the compounds of the present invention and which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but not limited to those described in for example Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Properties Selection and Use P. Heinrich Stahl and Camille G. Wermuth Eds. Published by VHCA Switzerland and Wiley VCH FRG 2002. The compounds of the present invention may be used in either the free base or salt forms with both forms being considered as being within the scope of the present invention. For example HMB may be administered as a salt selected from the group consisting of a sodium salt a potassium salt a magnesium salt a chromium salt and a calcium salt. Other non toxic salts such as other alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salts can be used. In some embodiments HMB may be administered as calcium HMB monohydrate. Other salts which may act as carriers include succinate fumarate and medoximil.

Extended release salts such as succinate may be bound to HMB such that the HMB is released at a controlled rate. In some embodiments HMB is released at a rate such that the HMB can be administered once a day. HMB has a relatively short half life and reaches peak levels quickly. Therefore binding HMB to a slow release carrier may have some utility in terms of compliance and efficacy.

HMB may be combined with any of the above mentioned statins to provide combination lipid lowering therapy in patients who are otherwise statin intolerant. Examples would include HMB atorvastatin HMB rosuvastatin HMB pravastatin HMB simvastatin and HMB lovastatin.

In one aspect the disclosure provides methods for alleviating one or more side effects of statin administration the method comprising supplementing statin administration with administration of a therapeutically effective amount of hydroxy methylbutyrate HMB wherein one or more side effects of statin administration are alleviated. In some embodiments the one or more side effects of statin administration are one or a plurality of myopathic or myalgic side effects short term memory loss abnormal liver function glucose intolerance hyperglycemia increased risk for diabetes or cumulative trauma disorder. In some embodiments the myopathic or myalgic side effects include muscle fatigue muscle weakness muscle pain and or rhabdomyolysis. In some embodiments the rhabdomyolysis is acute rhabdomyolysis.

As used herein the phrase abnormal liver function refers to liver function characterized by elevated liver functions tests LFTs and in particular elevations in levels of alanine transaminase ALT also known as SGPT and or aspartate transaminase AST also known as SGOT enzymes. Elevated ALT and AST levels are indicators of liver damage. Other terms for this condition include transaminasemia and transaminitis. LFTs are elevated when above the normal ranges which are about 8 40 U L for ALT and AST.

As used herein the phrase glucose intolerance refers to a metabolic condition resulting in higher than normal levels of blood glucose. Glucose intolerance can include type 1 type 1.5 and type 2 diabetes. Measurement of glycated hemoglobin levels hemoglobin A1c or HbA1c in a patient is one way to assess glucose intolerance and or diabetes. For people without diabetes the normal range for the hemoglobin A1c test is between 4 and 5.6 . Hemoglobin A1c levels between 5.7 and 6.4 indicate increased risk of diabetes and levels of 6.5 or higher indicate diabetes. Thus in some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein glucose intolerance is characterized by hemoglobin A1c levels at or exceeding about 5.6 or about 5.7 or about 6.4 or about 6.5 .

In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein the HMB is administered at a dosage of about 0.5 to about 10 grams day or of about 1.0 to about 6.0 grams day or of about 2.0 to 4.0 grams day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered at a dosage of approximately 4 grams day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered at a dosage of approximately 3 grams day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered 1 to 5 times per day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered 3 times per day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered 2 times per day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered 1 time per day.

In some embodiments HMB is administered as a calcium salt such as calcium HMB monohydrate. In some embodiments HMB is administered as HMB free acid.

In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein HMB is administered in an extended release form. In some embodiments the extended release form of HMB comprises succinate in order to extend release time in the gastrointestinal tract. In some embodiments extended release forms of HMB are designed or formulated to be administered one to three times per day. In some embodiments extended release forms of HMB are formulated to be administered once per day.

In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein the statin is atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin or simvastatin. In some embodiments the statin is rosuvastatin.

In another aspect the disclosure provides methods for treating acute rhabdomyolysis comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of HMB. In some embodiments the acute rhabdomyolysis is not statin induced. For example acute rhabdomyolysis is caused by dehydration trauma and or intense exercise. In some embodiments HMB is administered at a dosage of from about 3 grams day to about 15 grams day. In some embodiments HMB is administered at a dosage of about 12 grams day. In some embodiments HMB is administered at a dosage of 6 grams twice a day. In some embodiments HMB is HMB free acid. In some embodiments HMB is administered for at least three days.

In another aspect the disclosure provides pharmaceutical formulations comprising a statin and a myopathic or myalgic statin side effect alleviating amount of hydroxy methylbutyrate HMB . In some embodiments of the pharmaceutical formulations disclosed herein the myopathic or myalgic statin side effect alleviating amount of HMB comprises a dosage of HMB of about 0.5 to about 10 grams day or of about 1.0 to about 6.0 grams day or of about 2.0 to 4.0 grams day. In some embodiments myopathic or myalgic statin side effect alleviating amount of HMB comprises a dosage of approximately 3.0 grams day. In some embodiments the HMB is HMB monohydrate. In some embodiments the HMB is HMB calcium salt.

In some embodiments of the pharmaceutical formulations disclosed herein the statin is atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin or simvastatin. In some embodiments the statin is rosuvastatin. In some embodiments the ratio of statin to HMB is approximately 0.001 to 0.1 by weight. In some embodiments the ratio of statin to HMB is about 0.008 or about 0.01 or about 0.02 or about 0.03 or about 0.04 or about 0.05 or about 0.06 or about 0.07 or about 0.08 or about 0.09 by weight. In some embodiments the ratio of statin to HMB is approximately 0.01 by weight. In some embodiments the amount of HMB is from about 1.0 gram to about 4.0 grams.

In some embodiments of the pharmaceutical formulations disclosed herein HMB is formulated for extended release. In some embodiments extended release forms of HMB comprise succinate in order to extend release time in the gastrointestinal tract. In some embodiments extended release forms of HMB are designed or formulated to be administered one to three times per day. In some embodiments extended release forms of HMB are formulated to be administered once per day.

In another aspect the disclosure provides uses of HMB in combination with a statin to alleviate one or more side effects of statin administration. In some embodiments the one or more side effects of statin administration are one or a plurality of myopathic or myalgic side effects short term memory loss abnormal liver function glucose intolerance hyperglycemia increased risk for diabetes or cumulative trauma disorder. In some embodiments the myopathic or myalgic side effects include muscle fatigue muscle weakness muscle pain and or rhabdomyolysis. In some embodiments the rhabdomyolysis is acute rhabdomyolysis.

In some embodiments of the uses disclosed herein the HMB is administered at a dosage of about 0.5 to about 15 grams day or of about 1.0 to about 6.0 grams day or of about 2.0 to 4.0 grams day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered at a dosage of approximately 4 grams day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered at a dosage of approximately 3 grams day. In other embodiments the HMB is administered at a dosage of about 3.0 to about 15.0 grams day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered at a dosage of about 12.0 grams day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered 1 to 5 times per day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered 3 times per day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered 2 times per day. In some embodiments the HMB is administered 1 time per day. In some embodiments HMB is administered as a calcium salt such as calcium HMB monohydrate. In some embodiments HMB is administered as HMB free acid.

In some embodiments of the uses disclosed herein HMB is administered in an extended release form. In some embodiments the extended release form of HMB comprises succinate in order to extend release time in the gastrointestinal tract. In some embodiments extended release forms of HMB are designed or formulated to be administered one to three times per day. In some embodiments extended release forms of HMB are formulated to be administered once per day.

In some embodiments of the uses disclosed herein the statin is atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin or simvastatin. In some embodiments the statin is rosuvastatin.

The Examples that follow are illustrative of specific embodiments of the invention and various uses thereof. They are set forth for explanatory purposes only and are not to be taken as limiting the invention.

A healthy fully informed and consenting adult volunteer with severe rosuvastatin induced myalgia and myopathy and pre statin LDL of 260 was administered 1 gram HMB three times a day 3 grams day total while rosuvastatin therapy was continued. Within 72 hours of the initial HMB administration statin myalgia myopathy fully subsided. During brief intervals where HMB treatment was discontinued i.e. unintentionally skipped doses the subject reported a return of myalgia which again subsided upon reinstatement of HMB treatment. An increase in HMB dosage to 6 grams day provided no additional benefit.

A clinical study was conducted to evaluate the effects of HMB on patients with statin induced myopathy SIM . A total of eighteen patients were evaluated for the study with informed written consent obtained. Of the eighteen patients fourteen 14 ultimately qualified as having true statin myalgia and were enrolled in the study. All patients enrolled were under the care of a board certified cardiologist.

Two available forms of HMB were utilized in this study calcium monohydate form as a powder and free acid which is more bioavailable form as a gel cap. The free acid form was used in one patient who experienced major CPK elevations 900 1000 IU L range and disabling myalgia on statins. The free acid form resulted in a significant decrease in CPK and resolution in symptoms with an improvement over the calcium monohydrate form see summary for Patient D 4 below .

For this study patients were evaluated using multiple laboratories with variable lab normal ranges which are included. In the patient population as a whole the full spectrum of SIM is presented including statin myalgia without CPK elevation myositis or rhabdomyolysis depending on severity elevation of CPK without myalgia post statin elevation of CPK with and without pain post statin myalgia without CPK elevation and finally statin induced muscle weakness without myalgia. Also represented were other statin induced side effects such as short term memory loss and glucose intolerance.

53 year old female diagnosed three years prior by her primary physician with severe hyperlipidemia apparently mixed type. She was otherwise in good health. Simvastatin was prescribed with resultant severe bilateral leg myopathy myalgia. The patient s internist substituted Crestor rosuvastatin for simvastatin with the hope of alleviating the patient s leg pain. The pain intensified and persisted involving the quadriceps gluteals and pyriformis muscles bilaterally. She stopped Crestor on her own accord but the pain abated only minimally and she was having difficulty walking. Six weeks after stopping Crestor still in pain her CPK was elevated 242 IU L lab normal range 26 192 consistent with a persistent post statin myositis. At that time she was not physically active. She was placed on calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID twice daily prior to re introducing statin therapy. All pain completely resolved in 3 days. A repeat CPK was drawn 9 days later and was in normal range 87 IU L range 26 192 . Subsequently Crestor at a dose of 10 mg daily was prescribed. The patient remained completely pain free after 3 months on statin therapy despite regularly exercising at the gym with a weights cardio regimen. Subsequent lab results confirmed mixed rather than a pure type 2a hyperlipidemia with triglycerides 400 mg . Vascepa was added to her statin regimen along with a carbohydrate restricted diet and regular exercise. Patient re evaluation 3 months after beginning treatment with HMB asymptomatic no recurrence of leg hip myalgia or biomarker myositis on Crestor 10 mg daily calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID. LDL 72 mg dl. CPK 110 IU L.

60 year old male with coronary heart disease having undergone percutaneous coronary intervention with stent 10 years prior. Patient B 2 was statin intolerant and previous attempts on statin therapy had failed due to intractable leg myalgia. An alternative regimen of Welchol 6 tablets daily and Zetia 10 mg daily was prescribed with relief of myalgia. Prior to beginning HMB therapy B 2 had elevated LDL 168 mg on this combination non statin therapy. Welchol was discontinued and he was placed on Vytorin 10 40 calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID. Repeat lab 50 days later demonstrated a drop in LDL to 110 mg with a normal CPK 173 IU L lab normal range 44 196 . Six months later the patient remained compliant with his medication and remained completely asymptomatic on Vytorin .

Male age 52 with medical problems that included type 2a hyperlipidemia type 2 diabetes hypertension and a benign mitral valve disorder. Multiple attempts at statin therapy on a variety of statins met with almost immediate failure due to statin intolerance in the form of myalgia relieved only by discontinuing the statin. Zetia as monotherapy was prescribed with modest success but he was unable to achieve clinical goals 

Female age 61 diagnosed with severe hyperlipidemia small vessel coronary artery disease by cardiac catheterization type 2 diabetes hypertension and hypothyroidism all of which were under medical management including injectable Victoza and Lantus insulin for diabetes. Patient historically was statin intolerant with statin myalgia but multiple coronary risk factors and known coronary disease mandated LDL control. An earlier trial of simvastatin resulted in severe rhabdomyolysis with CPK in the 900 1000 IU L range. Off statins baseline LDL 212 with the atherogenic type B pattern on Vertical Auto Profile VAP Atherotec Diagnostic Labs . A trial of Zetia 10 mg daily low dose Crestor 5 mg daily was initiated but CPK rapidly climbed to 800 IU L. This was accompanied by recurrence of severe statin myalgia involving both thighs and calves. Due to significant rhabdomyolysis Crestor was promptly discontinued. While off statins for several months CPK remained elevated with slight improvement down to 705 IU L but myalgia had completely receded off Crestor . The patient exhibited asymptomatic post statin myositis CPK 1 10 ULN at that time. Patient re evaluated approx. four months later at which point LDL had returned to baseline 200 mg off low dose Crestor . At that time combination therapy with relatively high dose Crestor 20 mg daily Zetia 10 mg daily calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID was initiated. Patient again re evaluated 37 days later with repeat labs. Myalgia previously continuous had resolved except for very mild discomfort climbing stairs. She resumed her regular routine walking with a friend 1 2 miles without stopping for rest and experienced no leg discomfort with this activity. LDL had dropped to target at 49 and CPK had fallen to 277 IU L 26 192 on the new regimen.

Five months later some residual but mild leg discomfort persisted with a rise in CPK to 378 IU L. At the time patient D 4 s diabetes managed by an endocrinologist was uncontrolled fasting glucose 200 mg . Because of data suggesting that the area under blood level curve for HMB is reduced when ingested with glucose HMB free acid was substituted for calcium HMB monohydrate to improve absorption. The patient was re evaluated ten days later at which point D 4 stated that she felt better on the free acid form 2 gelcaps TID total dose 3 g daily with a drop in CPK to 257 IU L after ten days. Of note her fasting blood glucose dropped to 100 mg during the same time interval with no alteration of diet or diabetes medication.

Male 69 years old underwent coronary bypass surgery ten years prior with a history of mixed type hyperlipidemia type 2 diabetes hypertension and prior inferior myocardial infarction. Patient had a history of statin intolerance and stopped statin therapy due to statin myalgia. He was otherwise compliant with all other medications.

Lipid panel obtained 9 months prior to enrollment revealed triglyceride levels exceeding 500 mg thereby obscuring LDL measurements. At that time he was placed on fenofibrate to lower triglycerides and a repeat lipid profile 7 months later showed triglycerides reduced to 374 and an LDL 134. Unfortunately he was fenofibrate intolerant and this medication was stopped. Statin therapy with pravastatin 20 mg daily was initiated thereafter with the objective of using a very hydrophilic less lipophilic statin hoping that this would be less likely to cause statin myopathy. The patient promptly developed statin myalgia and stopped pravastatin.

When enrolled the patient was no longer taking a statin and had persistent post statin myalgia of the calves despite statin withdrawal. He was given calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID and instructed to resume pravastatin 1 week later. CPK after HMB treatment 110 IU L 39 308 . The bilateral calf myalgia resolved rapidly and completely on HMB.

Male 66 years old with a history of percutaneous coronary intervention right coronary artery ten years prior. Medical problems include type 2a hypercholesterolemia type 2 diabetes and hypertension. The patient had history of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia PSVT arrhythmia for which he underwent successful radiofrequency ablation. Hyperlipidemia was treated with atorvastatin 40 mg daily and Zetia 10 mg daily. At the time of enrollment he complained of the onset of myalgia and short term memory loss after switching from pravastatin to atorvastatin to achieve target LDL. The myalgia involved the left shoulder extending into the cervical region and occipital muscles of the skull. In addition to short term memory loss the patient had difficulty writing script but no focal motor deficit. All symptoms were present 6 months dating from the time conversion to atorvastatin. Upon enrollment the patient was placed on a regimen of atorvastatin 40 mg daily Zetia 10 mg daily and calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID. At 2 month follow up all myalgia had completely resolved. His wife also stated his short term memory loss had improved. Repeat LDL was 43 three years prior LDL had been 72 while taking Vytorin 10 40 .

Female 70 years old with type 2a hyperlipidemia long standing statin intolerance on multiple attempts paroxysmal atrial fibrillation PVC s with normal stress test and benign hypertension. One month prior to enrollment cholesterol total 254 LDL 169 HDL 56 and TG s 147. At that time the patient underwent coronary angiography for what appeared to be ischemic chest pain but no obstructive coronary artery disease CAD was found. The patient after this episode was concerned about her elevated LDL with the potential for future events and requested enrollment into the SIM pilot study. SIM in her case was present in the form of disabling myopathy with profound global weakness. Upon enrollment G 7 resumed statin therapy after an interval of greater than four years. In addition she began calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID. Approximately four weeks later the patient remained free of all symptoms of myalgia and muscle weakness. Repeat LDL 108 reduced from 169. CPK 39 IU L 29 168 .

Female age 76 with a primary diagnosis of atrial fibrillation controlled on anti arrhythmic medication. She carried a secondary diagnosis of type 2a hyperlipidemia previously treated with simvastatin. This medication was stopped due to bilateral leg myalgia fully resolving post statin calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID. On follow up encounter one month later the patient remained completely asymptomatic on this combination.

Female age 71 with mild to moderate non obstructive coronary artery disease with type 2a hyperlipidemia hypertension and hypothyroidism. All conditions were under control with medical therapy. Eight months prior to enrollment the patient was placed on Lipitor 10 mg daily. Since initiating statin therapy she experienced bilateral thigh achiness walking especially through the mall and climbing stairs. She consulted an orthopedic surgeon but the symptoms became progressively worse. Upon enrollment she was placed on calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID and instructed to continue Lipitor 10 mg daily. At follow up one month later she stated there was complete resolution of bilateral thigh pain.

64 year old female with severe familial hyperlipidemia originally with LDL levels 300 mg and B pattern VAP with a prior history of statin induced rhabdomyolysis. Upon enrollment patient had an LDL 282 and coincidentally CPK 282 IU L 29 168 on a regimen consisting of Crestor 10 mg daily Zetia 10 mg daily and Lovaza 4 capsules daily. Although she was a medication failure at that dose increasing the dose of Crestor would only result in worsening rhabdomyolysis. She was placed on calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID and Crestor was increased to 20 mg daily. At follow up 47 days later LDL 139 50 reduction and CPK 191 IU L 32 reduction . The patient remains pain free and exercises weights and cardio on a near daily basis.

Female age 82 with coronary disease and prior coronary angioplasty PCI 1st diagonal bare metal stent five years prior to enrollment . She had a history of statin intolerance with very rapid onset with various statins. As an alternative she was managed with Zetia 10 mg daily as monotherapy. This strategy effectively eliminated her statin myalgia specifically severe myalgia of the calves. Upon enrollment LDL 122 HDL 37 and triglycerides 261 on Zetia diet still not at target. At that time patient was placed on Crestor 5 mg daily calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID. Two months later the patient was pain free and remains asymptomatic to date. Follow up labs at two months LDL 100 triglycerides 193 and CPK 87 IU L 29 168 .

54 year old male who underwent a 2 vessel PCI stent procedure approx. 1.5 years prior to enrollment left anterior descending and right coronary arteries . He also had a history of peripheral vascular disease and underwent left superficial femoral artery angioplasty eight months prior to enrollment. Getting to target LDL was critical in this patient but was impeded by biomarker statin intolerance. Seven months prior to enrollment patient was on Zetia monotherapy but off statins due to SIM LDL 244. Once again he was placed on a statin Crestor but leg myalgia returned and upon enrollment CPK had risen to 320 IU L 39 308 . Crestor was continued and calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID was added. On this combination repeat lab was obtained four months later LDL 114 53 reduction CPK 210 IU L 39 308 34 reduction . All myalgia had resolved at the time of a follow up five months after enrollment and patient remained asymptomatic myalgia free at least eight months after enrollment.

Male age 48 with historical hypercholesterolemia complicated by statin myopathy in the form of muscle weakness involving extremities rather than myalgia. Medical problems included dysmetabolic syndrome and benign hypertension. About three years prior to enrollment a Vertical Auto Profile VAP panel Atherotech revealed an LDL 109 type B pattern small dense more atherogenic particles . At that time treatment consisted of Zetia 10 mg daily and Welchol 625 mg daily. Repeat LDL a year prior to enrollment was 107. Because of co morbidity placing patient at higher risk for coronary artery disease CAD a statin agent Livalo 1 mg daily was added 8 months prior to enrollment. SIM with muscle weakness eventually developed. Two months prior to enrollment Livalo was reduced to 0.5 mg daily but without improvement. The patient in his own words had trouble picking things up. 

Upon enrollment LDL 107 CPK 200 IU L 30 200 . Calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID was added at that time and statin therapy was continued. 13 days later symptoms of muscle weakness had resolved and patient was able to return to normal physical activity.

Male age 70 with severe multivessel coronary disease having undergone multiple stent percutaneous coronary interventions PCIs . Medical history includes hyperlipidemia type 2a adult onset diabetes mellitus type 2 hypertension and statin intolerance in the form of bilateral quadriceps myalgia. The patient s statin intolerance was mildly but persistently biomarker positive. Because of his CAD history with multiple PCI s the patient remained on statin therapy despite daily leg discomfort in return for optimal LDL control without further adverse cardiac events. Lab upon enrollment CPK 274 IU L 30 200 LDL 30 TG s 324 HDL 29. Concurrent meds Zetia 10 mg daily Crestor 5 mg on alternate days and Lovaza 4 g daily. After four weeks on combined statin therapy and calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID there was complete resolution of all quadriceps thigh pain. Lab 2 months post enrollment LDL 53 at target CPK 310 IU L. Discussing elevated CPK with patient it was learned that he was now engaged in a 5 days week weight program 6 machines 50 reps to failure . This program is likely to cause CPK spill secondary to muscle micro trauma similar to patient A 1 . Patient advised to adhere to a weight program combined with more cardio with rest periods to allow recovery. He was also converted to HMB free acid 1 g TID for the purpose of evaluating its tolerance and reportedly superior absorption. Three months post enrollment he remained completely symptom free of statin myalgia myopathy.

63 year old male with a history of severe multi vessel coronary disease presenting as unstable angina who underwent 4 vessel coronary bypass surgery with left internal mammary artery approx. 3 years prior to enrollment. Medical history included hyperlipidemia 2a and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Lipid management post coronary bypass included atorvastatin. About a year prior to enrollment initial symptoms of statin myopathy appeared bilateral thigh and hip adductor pain continuous at rest and with activity. Patient was converted to simvastatin without relief in symptoms.

Upon enrollment patient was prescribed simvastatin calcium HMB monohydrate 2 g BID. Lab at that time LDL 79 CPK 225 IU L 35 245 . Sixteen days after enrollment patient no longer had any thigh pain but there was a persistent groin stiffness that disappeared after a cardio treadmill workout. These residual symptoms are not truly typical of statin myalgia.

Acute rhabdomyolysis is a rare but extreme and potentially life threatening disorder that can occur in all groups in a setting of dehydration trauma and in younger age groups intense exercise. Statin agents have also been shown to cause acute massive rhabomyolysis syndrome a form of statin myopathy resulting in acute kidney failure and hemodialysis. At this time there is no known method of reversing rhabomyolysis apart from bed rest and hydration.

Protocol measure patient s CPK if value exceeds 10 times the upper limit of normal 200 IU L depending on laboratory specific established normal range initiate the following 

HMB administration is used to treat short term memory loss an unusual side effect resulting from statin administration. Patient F 6 described in the pilot study of Example 2 exhibited this side effect. In F 6 s case symptoms began shortly after starting atorvastatin and mostly resolved with the administration of HMB. Here HMB is used to resolve similar short term memory loss exhibited by patients taking statins.

Protocol Patient describes short term memory loss after starting statin. Initiate the following steps 

Outcome Patients exhibit reversal of some or all short term memory loss by HMB treatment within two months. Comparison of pre and post therapy neuropsychometric testing will be statistically analyzed chi squared p value .

Elevated liver function tests LFTs are common in statin users. The presence of elevated transaminases commonly the transaminases alanine transaminase ALT or SGPT and aspartate transaminase AST or SGOT are indicators of liver damage. Terms for this condition include transaminasemia and transaminitis Normal ranges for both ALT and AST are 8 40 U L with mild transaminesemia noted to the upward numerical limit of 250 U L. Here HMB is administered to normalize abnormal liver function tests and reverse transaminitis.

Protocol Protocol Patient must exhibit ALT and AST levels in excess of twice the upper limit of normal to enrol. Once enrolled initiate the following steps 

Outcome LFTs return to normal ALT SGPT less than 40 U L AST SGOT less than 40 U L within 3 months of beginning HMB treatment.

Glucose intolerance with hyperglycemia increased risk for diabetes probably related to insulin resistance has been reported in statin users especially lipophilic statins such as rosuvastatin less so in hydrophilic statins such as pravastatin. Here HMB administration is used to treat statin related glucose intolerance.

Protocol type 1 1.5 and 2 diabetics with hemoglobin A1C at or exceeding 6.5 are eligible also eligible are hyperglycemic increased risk for diabetes patients not on diabetic treatment but with a hemoglobin A1C at or exceeding 5.7 patients with critical value fasting blood glucose and hemoglobin A1C levels are excluded. Once enrolled the following steps are initiated 

Outcome Patients exhibit reduction of hemoglobin A1C to levels below 6.5 in diabetics and 5.7 in hyperglycemics on dietary management i.e. with increased risk for diabetes within 6 weeks of beginning HMB treatment along with fasting blood glucose less than 100 mg for hyperglycemic non diabetic management patients and less than 130 mg for diabetic patients.

Cumulative trauma disorder also known as chronic overuse syndrome is characterized by muscle damage due to performing repetitive activities over time. Statin users are particularly vulnerable to cumulative trauma disorder due to impaired ability to heal chronically micro traumatized muscle. Here HMB is used to treat cumulative trauma disorder.

Protocol Patients are enrolled if they qualify with symptoms that include chronic muscle weakness and pain complemented by an occupation or lifestyle lending itself to chronic overuse syndrome e.g. construction workers etc. . All patients are currently on statins. Initial documentation of strength levels and pain severity are required. Pain is evaluated using the Verbal Numerical Rating Scale VNRS . Strength is measured using the Manual Muscle Testing 5 point scale. Additionally grip strength is measured using a dynamometer. Once enrolled the following steps are initiated 

Outcome Patients exhibit reduced pain severity and increased strength levels within 6 weeks of beginning HMB treatment.

Having described the invention in detail and by reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims. More specifically although some aspects of the present invention are identified herein as particularly advantageous it is contemplated that the present invention is not necessarily limited to these particular aspects of the invention.

