---

title: Augmented cementitious binder compositions and related methods
abstract: The disclosure relates to cementitious binder compositions, related concrete compositions, and related methods. The cementitious binder includes a cement augmented with particulate glass (e.g., mixed color waste glass) and a reactive particulate mineral and/or metal salt such as sodium bicarbonate or calcium carbonate. The cementitious binder can be combined with aggregate and used to form corresponding (cured) concrete compositions. Inclusion of the reactive particulate material improves the set time and early-age strength development of the cured compositions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09464000&OS=09464000&RS=09464000
owner: BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
number: 09464000
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150702
---
Priority is claimed to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 022 865 filed on Jul. 10 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to cementitious binder compositions related concrete compositions and related methods. The cementitious binder includes a cement augmented with particulate glass and a reactive particulate mineral and or metal salt. The cementitious binder can be combined with aggregate and used to form corresponding cured concrete compositions.

Concrete a primary construction material is the world s most consumed man made material. About 800 million tons of concrete was consumed in the U.S. in 2007 and the world consumption was estimated at 11 billion tons or approximately 1.7 tons for every living human being. Production of cement the binder in concrete is an energy intensive and highly polluting process which contributes about 5 to 8 to global carbon dioxide CQ emissions and accounts for 3 of total 5 of industrial energy consumption worldwide. Production of each ton of cement emits one ton of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Manufacturing of cement is also an energy intensive process which ranks third after aluminum and steel production in terms of energy consumption. Close to 5.5 million BTU of energy is consumed for production of a ton of cement. The energy used for production of cement accounts for more than 90 of the total energy required for production of concrete. In spite of major efforts in recent decades significant gains in the fuel efficiency of cement production plants have not been realized.

Growing environmental concerns encourage recycling of the landfill bound constituents of the municipal solid waste stream including glass. Waste glass can be conveniently collected in mixed color. Mixed color waste glass however is of limited value in glass production because it would require a costly color selective separation step prior to glass production i.e. to form a recycled glass having a desired single color such as amber green colorless etc. .

The disclosure generally relates to cementitious binder compositions related concrete compositions and related methods. The cementitious binder includes a cement augmented with particulate glass and a reactive particulate mineral and or metal salt. The cementitious binder can be combined with aggregate and used to form corresponding cured concrete compositions.

A blend of particulate milled waste glass and a reactive particulate mineral or metal salt powder e.g. sodium bicarbonate calcium carbonate such as from limestone both with micro scale dimensions can be used as a partial replacement for cement to enhance the mechanical properties impermeability and durability of a resulting concrete while retaining the desired early age strength and chemistry of concrete environment.

Waste glass including mixed color waste glass offers desired chemical attributes for chemical reactions with cement hydrates which yield concrete materials of enhanced structure and engineering properties. Glass however is rich in alkalis and increases the alkalinity of a concrete pore solution. Partial replacement of cement with milled waste glass also lowers the rate of strength development in concrete requiring adjustment of construction schedule. The alkali content of glass also increases the alkalinity of the pore solution. While test results indicate that reactions involving glass in a cementitious binder can actually lower the potential for deleterious alkali silica reactions the rise in pore solution alkalinity is still a consideration given the high level of concern with alkali silica reactions. Compositions according to the disclosure blend milled waste glass with a relatively small concentration e.g. about 5 wt. to 15 wt. relative to milled waste glass replacement of a reactive particulate powder e.g. a bicarbonate or a carbonate mineral or metal salt to overcome the problems with slow strength gain of recycled glass concrete. Reactive groups such as bicarbonate or carbonate can introduce carbonic acid into a concrete solution bicarbonate can produce a buffer solution and can act as an effective carrier of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to produce additional carbonic acid and lower the alkalinity of solution. It also acts as an accelerator to increase the rate of strength gain in concrete.

Waste glass including mixed color waste glass is milled to about the particle size of cement e.g. about 1 m to 100 m about 2 m to 25 m or about 10 m average particle size . A reactive particulate material e.g. a bicarbonate or a carbonate mineral or metal salt is also milled to or otherwise provided in the same or substantially similar particle size e.g. the cement waste glass and reactive particulate have similar average sizes and or size distributions . The waste glass and reactive particulate are blended at a waste glass to reactive particulate weight ratio of about 10 1 e.g. about 5 1 to 15 1 . Alternatively the waste glass and the reactive particulate can be milled together at the desired weight ratio. The blend is then used as replacement for about 10 20 or 30 by weight of cement in concrete production e.g. about 5 wt. to 50 wt. or about 10 wt. to 30 wt. relative to total cementitious binder . The cementitious binder with partial waste glass replacement can be combined at the point of cement production and or use e.g. in a cement production plant in a ready mix concrete plant production plant in a pre cast pre stressed concrete manufacturing plant .

The disclosed cementitious binder and related methods enable diversion of mixed color waste glass for value added use in concrete. Recycled glass concrete offers major advantages in terms of performance service life economy and sustainability. Large scale implementation of the recycled waste glass as a partial cement replacement can have significant effects on greenhouse gas emissions e.g. resulting from lower emissions associated with production of cement . The inclusion of the reactive particulate material in combination with the waste glass yields concrete materials of enhanced performance sustainability and cost without requiring any change in construction schedule while retaining the desired concrete chemistry for avoiding concerns with deleterious alkali silica reactions.

In one aspect the disclosure relates to a cementitious binder composition including a a hydraulic cement b a particulate glass composition having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m and c a reactive particulate composition including at least one of a reactive particulate metal salt and a reactive particulate mineral composition the reactive particulate composition having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a cementitious binder composition including a a hydraulic cement including Portland cement b a particulate glass composition present in an amount ranging from about 5 wt. to about 50 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition and having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m and c a particulate sodium bicarbonate composition present in an amount ranging from about 0.5 wt. to about 10 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition and having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a cementitious binder composition including a a hydraulic cement including Portland cement b a particulate glass composition present in an amount ranging from about 5 wt. to about 50 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition and having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m and c a particulate calcium carbonate composition present in an amount ranging from about 0.5 wt. to about 10 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition and having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a cured binder composition including at least one of hydration pozzolanic and carbonation reaction products of water and the cementitious binder composition according to any of the various disclosed embodiments.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a concrete composition including a the cementitious binder composition according to any of the various disclosed embodiments and b concrete aggregates.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a cured concrete composite composition including a a matrix including at least one of hydration pozzolanic and carbonation reaction products of water and the cementitious binder composition according to any of the various disclosed embodiments b aggregates distributed throughout the matrix and c optionally one or more additives selected from the group consisting of chemical additives mineral additives fibrous additives and combinations thereof.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to method for curing a cementitious binder composition the method including a applying a cementitious binder composition according to any of the various disclosed embodiments and further including water to a substrate e.g. casting the composition further including water into a mold and b curing the cementitious binder composition for a selected period e.g. for a specified time and or under specified conditions thereby forming a cured cement based composition including a cementitious matrix including at least one of the hydration pozzolanic and carbonation reaction products of the cementitious binder composition and the water therein. In a refinement i the cementitious binder composition is in the form of a concrete composition further including aggregates and ii curing the concrete composition for the selected period forms a cured concrete composition including the cementitious matrix and the aggregates embedded within the cementitious matrix.

Additional features of the disclosure may become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the drawings examples and appended claims.

While the disclosed compositions and methods are susceptible of embodiments in various forms specific embodiments of the disclosure are illustrated and will hereafter be described with the understanding that the disclosure is intended to be illustrative and is not intended to limit the claims to the specific embodiments described and illustrated herein.

The disclosure generally relates to cementitious binder compositions related concrete compositions and related methods. The cementitious binder includes a cement augmented with particulate glass and a reactive particulate mineral and or metal salt. The cementitious binder can be combined with aggregate and used to form corresponding cured concrete compositions.

The use of solid waste materials or industrial by products as a partial replacement for cement in concrete is a viable strategy for reducing the production and use of Portland cement thus reducing the environmental and energy impacts of concrete production. Mixed color waste glass offers desired chemical composition and reactivity for use as a supplementary cementitious material that is capable of enhancing the chemical stability pore system characteristics moisture resistance and durability of concrete.

Early efforts to recycle waste glass in concrete have focused on the use of crushed glass as replacement for aggregates in concrete. These efforts neglected the reactive nature of glass in a cement based matrix which was slowed down due to the relatively large millimeter scale size of glass particles. Such gradual reactions proved to be detrimental to the long term stability of concrete incorporating relatively large crushed glass particles. Milling of glass to micrometer scale particle size for accelerating the reactions between glass and cement hydrates can accelerate the chemical reactions so that they occur at about the same time as hydration of cement. This enables partial replacement of cement with milled waste glass in concrete and offers major energy environmental and cost benefits. Besides the benefits associated with reducing the energy and environmental impacts of cement production recycling of each ton of glass saves over one ton of natural resources.

The compatible chemistry of glass and cement as well as the amorphous nature of glass promote successful use of milled waste glass as a partial replacement for cement in concrete. Silica rich glass offers desired pozzolanic qualities for beneficial reactions with cement hydrates. Percentages of the three key oxides SiO AlOand CaO in glass sum to meet the required ASTM C618 minimum for pozzolans.

Once finely ground glass offers a viable chemical composition for beneficial pozzolanic reactions with cement hydrates. Mixed color waste glass when milled to a relatively small micron scale particle size e.g. average particle size 1 m to 100 m such as less than 40 m or less than 25 m exhibits satisfactory pozzolanic reactivity for use as partial replacement for Portland cement in concrete e.g. 5 wt. to 50 wt. such as about 10 wt. 20 wt. or 30 wt. relative to total cementitious binder . The resulting recycled glass concrete provides improved mechanical performance impermeability and durability when compared with normal concrete. The pozzolanic reactions of milled waste glass with cement hydrates produce calcium silicate hydrate with improved binding capability and chemical stability.

The relatively high alkali content of glass distinguishes it from other pozzolans currently used as supplementary cementitious materials. Partial replacement of milled mixed color waste glass in concrete produces a slight rise in the pH of concrete pore solution. In spite of this recycled glass concrete performs better than normal concrete in terms of resistance to alkali silica reaction when reactive aggregates are used in concrete . One can attribute this to the consumption of calcium hydroxide by pozzolanic reactions of silica rich glass. Some glass augmentation methods which are the subject of this disclosure including addition of sodium bicarbonate can lower the alkalinity of a concrete pore solution by promoting dissolution and beneficial carbonation reactions of the carbon dioxide in air during hydration of cement.

While recycled glass concrete surpasses normal concrete in terms of long term barrier durability and mechanical properties it falls short as far as early age setting and strength development are concerned when milled glass is used alone as a partial cement replacement. The slow rate of recycled glass concrete setting and strength development delays the construction process and carries a cost penalty.

In order to overcome drawbacks associated with the slow rate of strength development in recycled glass concrete the mixed color waste glass according to the disclosure is augmented through addition of reactive particulate materials e.g. sodium bicarbonate powder calcium carbonate powder or other minerals . While not being bound to any particular theory it is hypothesized that modification of milled mixed color waste glass with reactive particulates accelerates the rate of hydration and early age strength development in recycled glass concrete by synergistic actions of the two involving at least one of the following mechanisms i release of bicarbonate anions by reactive particulates to accelerate curing of cementitious materials by increasing the rate of dissolution inducing accelerated carbonation reactions and potentially promoting the dissolution of carbon dioxide from air to sustain accelerated carbonation reactions where the carbonation reactions transform a the aluminosulfate hydration phases of cement Afm and Aft into carboaluminates at the expense of monosulfate while stabilizing Aft with this effect amplified by the additional aluminates brought into the system by glass during its pozzolanic reactions enabling persistence of the beneficial reactive particulate effects in recycled glass concrete over time and b the calcium hydroxide hydration phases of cement into calcium carbonate ii action of reactive particulates as nucleation sites to increase the probability of dissolved C S H encountering and precipitating on solid particles iii dissolution of reactive particulates to increase the solubility of anhydrous cementitious materials and subsequent hydration reactions of the resulting ions and iv activation of geopolymerization mechanisms which complement conventional hydration and pozzolanic reactions towards improvement of early age properties of recycled glass concrete.

Augmentation of glass with sodium bicarbonate also offers the potential for increased dissolution of carbon dioxide from air into the fresh concrete solution. The resulting early age carbonation reactions complemented with the pozzolanic reactions of glass promise to counteract the effects of the sodium content of glass restoring the alkalinity of a pore solution to levels that are not significantly different from those of normal concrete. In addition the strong alkali binding capacity of the products of pozzolanic and carbonation reactions further reduce the alkalinity of the recycled glass concrete pore solution to levels close to those of conventional concrete.

In one aspect the disclosure relates to a cementitious binder composition including a a hydraulic cement b a particulate glass composition having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m and c a reactive particulate composition including at least one of a reactive particulate metal salt and a reactive particulate mineral composition the reactive particulate composition having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a cementitious binder composition including a a hydraulic cement including Portland cement b a particulate glass composition present in an amount ranging from about 5 wt. to about 50 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition and having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m and c a particulate sodium bicarbonate composition present in an amount ranging from about 0.5 wt. to about 10 wt. or 20 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition and having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a cementitious binder composition including a a hydraulic cement including Portland cement b a particulate glass composition present in an amount ranging from about 5 wt. to about 50 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition and having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m and c a particulate calcium carbonate composition present in an amount ranging from about 0.5 wt. to about 10 wt. or 20 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition and having an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a cured binder composition including a hydration reaction product of water and the cementitious binder composition according to any of the various disclosed embodiments e.g. where water was present prior to hydration in an amount ranging from about 10 wt. to about 65 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition .

The various components of the disclosed compositions e.g. cement particulate glass composition reactive particulate composition aggregate can be characterized by one or more size distribution parameters. A general size parameter can represent the size distribution characteristic of a specific material for all of the material in the cementitious binder and or concrete compositions or only the material having a size less than about 30 50 70 or 100 m e.g. to exclude contribution of a component from a larger sized source such as concrete aggregate such as calcium carbonate from limestone aggregate . A particle size can be expressed as a diameter D or an effective volume equivalent diameter size of a cumulative distribution e.g. 0

Various refinements and extensions of the disclosed cement in the cementitious binder compositions are possible. For example the hydraulic cement component can be present in an amount ranging from about 50 wt. to about 95 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition e.g. at least about 50 60 70 or 80 and or up to about 80 90 or 95 by weight relative to the cementitious binder composition . The cement suitably has an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m or about 2 m to about 25 m. For example the cement can have a Dof at least about 1 2 5 8 or 10 m and or up to about 15 20 25 50 or 100 m e.g. alternatively or additionally a Dor Dof at least about 0.5 1 or 2 m and or up to about 1 2 or 5 m a Dor Dof at least about 30 40 or 60 m and or up to about 50 70 100 or 200 m .

The particular type of cement is not particularly limited. In various embodiments the cement be a hydraulic cement such as general use GU hydraulic cement high early strength HE hydraulic cement moderate sulfate resistance MS hydraulic cement high sulfate resistance HS hydraulic cement moderate heat of hydration MH hydraulic cement low heat of hydration LH hydraulic cement and combinations thereof. In an embodiment the cement can be Portland cement e.g. Type I for example including about 25 or 50 to 60 CS about 15 to 25 or 50 CS about 2 or 5 to 12 CA about 5 to 15 CAF about 1 to 5 M about 0.5 to 1.5 C and or about 1 to 5 sulfur trioxide all by weight notation C CaO S SiO A AlO F FeO and M MgO . The Portland cement can include one or more of Type I Portland cement Type II Portland cement Type III Portland cement Type IV Portland cement Type V Portland cement Type IS Portland blast furnace slag cement Type IP Portland pozzolan cement Type IT Ternary blended cement and combinations thereof. Portland cement types are generally defined according to ASTM C150 standards. Representative compositions include about 55 CS 19 CS 10 CA 7 CAF 2.8 M 2.9 SO and 1.0 free C Type I about 51 CS 24 CS 6 CA 11 CAF 2.9 M 2.5 SO and 1.0 free C Type II about 57 CS 19 CS 10 CA 7 CAF 3.0 M 3.1 SO and 1.3 free C Type III about 28 CS 49 CS 4 CA 12 CAF 1.8 M 1.9 SO and 0.8 free C Type IV and 38 CS 43 CS 4 CA 9 CAF 1.9 M 1.8 SO and 0.8 free C Type V .

In an embodiment the cementitious binder can further include a supplementary cementitious material such as fly ash ground granulated blast furnace slag silica fume rice husk ash metakaolin spent fluid catalytic cracking catalyst petroleum production byproduct and combinations thereof. The supplementary cementitious material suitably is present in an amount of at least about 5 10 or 15 and or up to about 20 30 or 50 by weight relative to the total cement and supplementary cementitious material combined. Alternatively or additionally the supplementary cementitious material can be present in an amount of at least about 5 10 or 20 and or up to about 25 40 60 or 100 by weight relative to the cement e.g. Portland cement or otherwise . The amount of cement as a basis for other concentrations as disclosed herein can include the cement and the supplementary cementitious material combined.

Various refinements and extensions of the disclosed particulate glass in the cementitious binder compositions are possible. For example the particulate glass composition can be present in an amount ranging from about 5 wt. to about 50 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition. For example the particulate glass composition can be at least about 5 10 or 15 and or up to about 20 25 30 40 or 50 by weight relative to the cementitious binder composition e.g. about 5 wt. to 15 wt. about 15 wt. to 25 wt. or about 25 wt. to 35 wt. . Alternatively or additionally the particulate glass composition can be at least about 5 10 20 or 30 and or up to about 25 35 45 or 55 by weight relative to the cement. The particulate glass concentration can represent all particulate glass in the cement composition or only the particles having a size less than about 30 50 70 or 100 m and or having a selected size distribution characteristic. The particulate glass composition suitably has an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m or about 5 m to about 25 m. The particulate glass suitably has an irregular quasi spherical shape e.g. a non fibrous shape generally as would result from grinding such as having a L D aspect ratio less than about 2 5 or 10 . In other embodiments the particulate glass can have a fibrous shape e.g. where the average particle size corresponds the average fiber diameter and the fibrous L D aspect ratio is at least about 5 10 50 100 200 or 500 and or up to about 50 100 200 500 1000 or 5000 . For example the particulate glass composition can have a Dof at least about 1 2 5 8 or 10 m and or up to about 12 16 20 25 50 or 100 m e.g. alternatively or additionally a Dor Dof at least about 0.5 1 or 2 m and or up to about 1 2 or 5 m a Dor Dof at least about 20 30 or 40 m and or up to about 40 60 80 100 or 200 m .

The particular type of particulate glass is not particularly limited. In various embodiments the particulate glass composition can include mixed color waste glass e.g. post consumer waste glass two or more colors blended together such as clear colorless green amber flint . Use of mixed color waste glass eliminates the need to segregate colors for recycling as a new glass product while permitting a secondary re use of the glass as a partial cement replacement and avoiding disposal costs for the same. In a refinement the particulate glass can be a soda lime glass e.g. including about 70 to 76 SiO about 7 to 14 CaO about 0.1 or 2 to 6 MgO and or about 10 to 16 NaO all by weight .

Various refinements and extensions of the disclosed reactive particulate composition in the cementitious binder compositions are possible. For example the reactive particulate composition can be present in an amount ranging from about 0.1 wt. to about 20 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition. For example the reactive particulate composition can be at least about 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.5 1 or 1.5 and or up to about 2 3 4 6 10 or 20 by weight relative to the cementitious binder composition. Alternatively or additionally the reactive particulate composition can be at least about 0.4 0.5 1 or 1.5 and or up to about 2.5 4 6 9 15 or 25 by weight relative to the cement. The concentration can represent all particulate metal salts and or minerals in the cement composition or only the particles having a size less than about 30 50 70 or 100 m and or having a selected size distribution characteristic. The reactive particulate composition can have an average particle size ranging from about 1 m to about 100 m or about 5 m to about 20 m. For example the particulate composition can have a Dof at least about 1 2 5 8 or 10 m and or up to about 12 16 20 25 50 or 100 m alternatively or additionally a Dor Dof at least about 0.5 1 or 2 m and or up to about 1 2 or 5 m a Dor Dof at least about 20 30 or 40 m and or up to about 40 60 80 100 or 200 m .

In various embodiments the reactive particulate composition includes a reactive particulate metal salt such as a metal salt including an alkali metal an alkali earth metal and combinations thereof e.g. Li Na K Rb Cs Fr Be Mg Ca Sr Ba Ra these and other metals generally present in the particulate metal salt and or mineral composition in an ionic cationic or oxidized state positive oxidation level . In a refinement the metal can include sodium potassium magnesium calcium and or aluminum. Further the reactive particulate metal salt can include an anion from among carbonate bicarbonate nitrate hydroxide chloride fluoride sulfate bisulfate formate aluminate silicate and combinations thereof. e.g. suitably carbonate or bicarbonate alternatively free from halogens such as chlorine and or fluorine .

Examples of specific reactive particulate compositions include sodium bicarbonate sodium silicate calcium carbonate calcium chloride calcium formate calcium hydroxide metakaolin sodium carbonate sodium aluminate and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the reactive particulate composition e.g. and the corresponding cementitious binder and or concrete composition includes consists of or consists essentially of sodium bicarbonate. In some embodiments the reactive particulate composition e.g. and the corresponding cementitious binder and or concrete composition includes consists of or consists essentially of calcium carbonate.

In some embodiments the reactive particulate composition can be activated in an alkaline environment of the cementitious binder. The reactive particulate composition can be substantially insoluble in water under conditions when the cementitious binder formed into a paste e.g. pH concentration presence of other species such as where about 5 2 1 0.1 or less of the particulate metal salt and or mineral composition present in the paste dissolves e.g. where insoluble reactive metal salt mineral particles can form nucleation sites during cement hydration .

In various refinements other chemical mineral and or fibrous additives can be included in the cementitious binder and or concrete composition. Representative additive levels ranging from about 0.1 wt. to about 5 wt. relative to the cementitious binder. Suitable additives include chemical admixtures as generally known in the art for example including accelerators retarders air entrainers plasticizers pigments corrosion inhibitors bonding agents and or pumping aids. Similarly additives including dispersed reinforcements such as steel fibers glass fibers plastic fibers or other fibers may be included to improve mechanical strength of an eventual concrete composition.

As described above the cement particulate glass composition and reactive particulate composition e.g. any 2 or all 3 of the foregoing can have similar sizes size distributions in the cementitious binder composition. For example the ratio of the average particle size of the reactive particulate composition to the average particle size of the particulate glass composition can range from about 0.1 0.2 or 0.5 to about 1 2 5 or 10. For example the ratios D D D D and or D Dmore generally can independently be at least 0.5 0.6 0.8 or 0.9 and or up to 1.1 1.25 1.6 2 3 or 5. Analogous relationships can apply to the cement particulate combination and or the cement glass combination. When different particulate species have similar sizes in the cementitious binder e.g. as a result of milling or otherwise they also have similar specific surface areas m g particle thus promoting surface limited heterogeneous hydration reactions at similar rates during curing. Conversely substantially different sizes could result in the larger particle being rate limiting resulting in potentially wasted energy in milling the smaller particles to a size smaller than necessary for promoting glass salt mineral cement interactions in a particular cementitious binder composition.

The cementitious binder can be in a hydrated or an anhydrous form. For example the cementitious binder composition can be in the form of a particulate powder composition substantially free from water e.g. a particulate powder mixture of the cement particulate glass reactive particulate metal salt and or mineral and any other additives generally free from added water such as only having a water content at equilibrium moisture level with environmental moisture . Alternatively the cementitious binder composition can include added water e.g. an added amount of water that is sufficient for the purpose of forming a hardened cementitious material such as an amount sufficient to form a pourable or shapable paste like or slurry material . For example the water can be present in an amount ranging from about 10 wt. to about 60 wt. relative to the cementitious binder e.g. at least about 10 20 or 25 and or up to about 30 40 50 60 or 70 by weight relative to the cement alternatively or additionally at least about 10 15 or 20 and or up to about 25 30 35 40 50 or 60 by weight relative to the cementitious binder composition including the added water .

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a concrete composition including a the cementitious binder composition according to any of the various disclosed embodiments and b concrete aggregates.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a cured concrete composite composition including a a matrix including a hydration reaction product of water and the cementitious binder composition according to any of the various disclosed embodiments e.g. where water was present prior to hydration in an amount ranging from about 10 wt. to about 65 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition b aggregates distributed throughout the matrix and c optionally one or more additives selected from the group consisting of chemical additives mineral additives polymeric additives fibrous additives and combinations thereof.

In a refinement the aggregate is selected from the group consisting of crushed stone gravel sand light weight aggregates heavy weight aggregates synthetic particles recycled particles and combinations thereof. The aggregate can be classified selected according to an aggregate characteristic size which can correspond for example to the largest median or smallest size particle in the aggregate particle size distribution such as 37.5 mm 1.5 in sieve passing 25.0 mm 1 in 19.0 mm 0.75 in 12.5 mm 0.5 in 9.5 mm 0.375 in 4.75 mm No. 4 2.36 mm No. 8 1.18 mm No. 16 0.60 mm No. 30 0.30 mm No. 50 0.15 mm No. 100 0.075 mm No. 200 or ranges therebetween based on standard sieve sizes techniques. The aggregate generally includes a combination of sand fine aggregate and stone gravel coarse aggregate . The aggregate suitably is present in an amount ranging from about 25 wt. to about 1000 wt. relative to the cementitious binder e.g. at least about 50 100 200 300 or 400 and or up to about 200 300 400 500 600 or 800 by weight relative to the cementitious binder . Such amounts can apply to an anhydrous concrete composition a hydrated concrete composition e.g. pourable mixture to be applied to a substrate and or to a cured concrete composition.

The concrete composition can be in a hydrated or an anhydrous form. For example the concrete composition can be in the form of a particulate composition substantially free from water e.g. a particulate powder mixture of the cement binder particulate glass particulate metal salt and or mineral aggregate and any other additives generally free from added water such as only having a water content at equilibrium moisture level with environmental moisture . Alternatively the concrete composition can further include added water e.g. about 10 wt. to about 65 wt. relative to the cementitious binder composition as noted above .

In another aspect the disclosure relates to method for curing a cementitious binder composition the method including a applying a cementitious binder composition according to any of the various disclosed embodiments e.g. further including water in the binder composition to a substrate or other surface and b curing the cementitious binder composition for a selected period thereby forming a cured cement based composition including a cementitious matrix as a hydration reaction product of the cementitious binder composition and the water therein. In a refinement i the cementitious binder composition is in the form of a concrete composition further including aggregates and ii curing the concrete composition for the selected period forms a cured concrete composition including the cementitious matrix and the aggregates embedded within the cementitious matrix.

The surfaces substrates for application are not particularly limited and can include any solid surface such as ground or a compacted base e.g. for laying a road outside or a building floor or footing formwork e.g. for construction of wall beam column or other structural building element another cured cement concrete surface e.g. for forming a multi layered structure in road building or other context . The applied area can further include one or more reinforcing structures such as bars e.g. steel other metal or composite material to be contained within the concrete matrix upon curing. Curing can be accomplished in the presence of moisture at ambient or elevated temperature. The selected period for curing can be at least and or up to 1 2 3 5 7 14 or 28 days prior to putting the cured composition into normal use such as a road floor structural element or substrate for further cement concrete application curing.

The cured cement based composition and or the cured concrete composite composition according to the disclosure can be characterized in terms of their relative strength and or set time properties.

In some embodiments the cured cement based composition or the cured concrete composite composition has a one day compressive strength ranging from about 60 to 200 of the one day compressive strength for a corresponding cured cement composition or a corresponding cured concrete composite composition formed without the particulate glass composition and without the reactive particulate composition. For example the one day compressive strength can be at least about 70 80 85 90 95 or 100 and or up to about 100 110 120 130 150 or 200 and similar ranges can be applied to 2 3 and 7 day relative compressive strength values. The day values reflect the selected curing period between applying and testing the cured composition for compressive strength compressive strength suitably determined by ASTM C39 incorporated herein by reference or equivalent for example with a cylindrical 3 in D 6 in H specimen. A corresponding composition for comparison is one in which the glass and the reactive particulate is removed and replaced with cement binder e.g. along with a consistent water amount consistent aggregate type amount consistent type amount of any other additives relative to the cement composition used to form the cured composition .

In some embodiments the cured cement based composition or the cured concrete composite composition has a one day compressive strength ranging from about 90 to 200 of the one day compressive strength for a corresponding cured cement based composition or a corresponding cured concrete composite composition formed without the reactive particulate composition e.g. at least about 90 95 100 110 120 or 140 and or up to about 100 120 130 140 160 or 200 similar ranges can be applied to 2 3 and 7 day relative compressive strength values corresponding compositions as above .

In some embodiments the cement based composition or the concrete composite composition has an initial set time ranging from about 50 to 200 of the initial set time for a corresponding cement based composition or a corresponding concrete composite composition formed without the particulate glass composition and without the reactive particulate composition e.g. preferably less than the corresponding initial set time for example at least about 50 60 70 80 85 or 90 and or up to about 95 100 110 120 130 150 or 200 initial and final set times suitably determined by ASTM C403 penetration test incorporated herein by reference or equivalent .

In some embodiments the cement based composition or the concrete composite composition has an initial set time ranging from about 50 to 120 of the initial set time for a corresponding cement composition or a corresponding concrete composite composition formed without the reactive particulate composition e.g. preferably less than the corresponding initial set time for example at least about 50 60 70 80 85 or 90 and or up to about 95 100 110 120 130 150 or 200 .

In some embodiments the cement based composition or the concrete composite composition has a final set time ranging from about 50 to 200 of the final set time for a corresponding cement composition or a corresponding concrete composite composition formed without the particulate glass composition and without the reactive particulate composition e.g. preferably less than the corresponding final set time for example at least about 50 60 70 80 85 or 90 and or up to about 95 100 110 120 130 150 or 200 .

In some embodiments the cement based composition or the concrete composite composition has a final set time ranging from about 50 to 120 of the final set time for a corresponding cement based composition or a corresponding concrete composite composition formed without the reactive particulate composition e.g. preferably less than the corresponding final set time for example at least about 50 60 70 80 85 or 90 and or up to about 95 100 110 120 130 150 or 200 .

The following examples illustrate the disclosed compositions and methods but they are not intended to limit the scope of any claims thereto.

Limestone powder and several other minerals were evaluated as partial replacement for cement for overcoming the drawbacks of recycled glass concrete. Control concrete mixtures prepared with 100 Portland cement as the cementitious binder and recycled glass concrete mixtures prepared using 80 wt. cement and 20 wt. milled waste glass without or with one or more augmenting additives were prepared. The cementitious binder for the recycled glass concrete mixtures includes 80 wt. Portland cement and 20 wt. of cement replacement including the milled waste glass and the augmenting additive s . presents the particle size distributions of Portland cement and milled waste glass cumulative weight percent undersize cement D50 of 17.8 micron and milled waste glass D50 of 13.2 micron . indicate the weight percentage of the augmenting additive s relative to the total cement replacement. For example Limestone 10 indicates that he cement replacement includes 90 wt. waste glass and 10 wt. limestone i.e. and the cementitious binder correspondingly includes 80 wt. Portland cement 18 wt. waste glass and 2 wt. limestone . The one day compressive strength for the specimens was evaluated using cylindrical specimens of 3 in diameter and 6 in height ASTM C39 . Initial and final set times were also measured using ASTM C403 penetration tests. Crushed limestone was used as coarse aggregate with a maximum size of 19 mm and natural sand was used as fine aggregate with a maximum size of 4.75 mm.

The one day compressive strength test results are presented in . Fine limestone powder when used as replacement for 5 wt. of milled waste glass is observed to increase the one day compressive strength of recycled glass concrete above that of the concrete mixture. Fine limestone powder at 10 wt. replacement of glass and coarse limestone powder at 5 wt. replacement level of glass tend to restore the one day compressive strength of concrete. While some other minerals produce favorable effects on the one day compressive strength of recycled glass concrete they do not seem to match the effectiveness of limestone powder in this regard.

The experimental results suggest that augmentation of milled mixed color waste glass by replacing about 10 e.g. about 5 to 15 of waste glass with fine limestone powder produces recycled glass concrete materials which approximately match the one day compressive strength as well as the initial and final set times of control concrete.

Sodium bicarbonate NaHCOor baking soda was used to augment milled mixed color waste glass in order to increase the early age strength and reduce the set time of recycled glass concrete materials incorporating milled waste glass as a partial replacement for cement. As in Example 1 the one day compressive strength for concrete specimens using the various cementitious binders of Example 2 was evaluated using cylindrical specimens of 3 in diameter and 6 in height ASTM C39 . Initial and final set times were also measured using ASTM C403 penetration tests. Concrete mix design is summarized in Table 1. Natural gravel with a maximum size of 9.525 mm was used as coarse aggregate and silica sand with a maximum size of 0.85 mm was used as fine aggregate.

The experimental results indicate that sodium bicarbonate renders desired effects in particular providing compressive strength and set time values that are a substantially improved relative to recycled glass concrete neat glass in without the reactive particulate sodium bicarbonate powder and b comparable to a control concrete normal concrete in without partial replacement i.e. cement alone as the cementitious binder . Given the unexpectedly good results obtained with sodium bicarbonate the replacement level of cement with augmented milled waste glass was increased from 20 wt. in Example 1 to 30 wt. noting that the augmented milled waste glass incorporates 90 wt. glass and 10 wt. sodium bicarbonate. Accordingly the bicarbonate containing cementitious binder of Example 2 included 70 wt. Portland cement 27 wt. waste glass and 3 wt. sodium bicarbonate.

Calcium chloride an effective set accelerator which has lost ground in concrete applications due to its adverse effects on corrosion of steel in concrete was used as a control material in the experimental program reviewed below for comparison with sodium bicarbonate. The chloride containing cementitious binder of Example 2 included 70 wt. Portland cement 27.9 wt. waste glass and 2.1 wt. calcium chloride.

The one day compressive strength test results are presented in . Use of neat glass without any augmentation as replacement for 30 wt. of cement is observed to significantly reduce the 1 day compressive strength of concrete. Augmentation of milled waste glass with 10 sodium bicarbonate is observed to raise the 1 day compressive strength of recycled glass concrete to levels close to that of normal concrete. Sodium bicarbonate is observed in to be more effective than calcium chloride in restoring the 1 day compressive strength of recycled glass concrete.

The set time test results are presented in . Neat milled waste glass when used at 30 wt. replacement for cement causes an undesirable increase in the set time of concrete. Augmentation of milled waste glass with 10 wt. sodium bicarbonate i.e. 3 wt. of total cementitious binder and also with calcium chloride reduce the initial and final set times of recycled glass concrete to levels comparable to those of normal concrete.

Landfill bound mixed color waste glass can be augmented with a relatively low dosage of abundantly available minerals and milled to micro scale particle size for use as a partial replacement for cement in concrete. Recycled glass concrete offers important advantages over conventional concrete in terms of performance cost and sustainability. The impermeability and durability of recycled glass concrete surpass those of conventional concrete.

Production of cement is a highly energy intensive and polluting process which accounts for about 6 of anthropogenic COemissions worldwide and close to 2 of worldwide primary energy use. The disclosed cementitious binder offers the potential to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions by about 1.2 . Recycled glass servers as a chemically reactive constituent used as partial replacement for cement in concrete the approach to augmentation of waste glass with a reactive particulate material e.g. bicarbonate or carbonate mineral or salt restores the rate of chemical reactions. The cementitious binder transforms potentially deleterious reactions between cement alkalis and the amorphous silica constituent of glass into beneficial chemical reactions which substantially improve the chemical stability of concrete.

In recycled glass concrete cement is partially replaced with milled mixed color waste glass e.g. about 5 wt. to 50 wt. or about 10 wt. to 30 wt. waste glass relative to total cementitious binder where the waste glass is further augmented with the reactive particulate material to reduce its significant environmental impact and energy demand and to render important benefits to the performance and economics of the vast concrete based infrastructure. The otherwise landfill bound quantities of waste glass are adequate to significantly impact the concrete construction practice. The contributions of milled waste glass to the impermeability and durability qualities of concrete translate into increased service life of the concrete based infrastructure yielding life cycle environmental energy and cost benefits.

Use of milled waste glass without any augmentation as partial replacement for cement in concrete has some negative implications. The rate of setting and hardening of concrete tends to be reduced in the presence of milled waste glass which delays the construction process. Partial replacement of cement with milled waste glass also increases the alkalinity of pore solution which could induce adverse alkali silica reactions involving reactive constituents of some aggregates. Low cost and abundantly available reactive particulate materials such as bicarbonates and or carbonates e.g. limestone powder used at a small fractions of glass weight can be used to overcome these problems. Partial replacement of cement with such milled waste glass that is augmented with the reactive particulates yields desired rates of concrete setting hardening and lowers the alkalinity of concrete pore solution. These benefits are realized as a result of carbonation reactions occurring parallel with hydration and pozzolanic reactions and incorporation of alkali metal cations into the products of hydration and pozzolanic reactions. presents the percent gains in some key concrete properties measured in laboratory and field studies resulting from partial replacement of cement with augmented milled waste glass about 80 wt. Portland cement 19 wt. milled waste glass and 1 wt. milled calcium carbonate .

Waste glass is generated largely in urban areas where the bulk of concrete production also occurs e.g. in ready mixed and precast concrete plants . This proximity reduces the economic energy and environmental impacts of hauling the waste glass intended for use in concrete. Urban areas in the United States consume close to 80 million tons of cement annually in 2014 which at approximate 20 replacement level of cement with milled waste glass can consume all of the mixed color waste glass that is land filled in the United States. Key applications of concrete in urban areas include i cast in place residential and commercial construction slabs on grade footings walls etc. and rigid pavements and ii precast sewer infrastructure pipes manholes etc. masonry units wall panels and reinforced and prestressed structural elements. The primary needs and circumstances favoring partial replacement of cement with milled waste glass include i cost savings realized by the use of supplementary cementitious materials noting that milled waste glass can be produced at about half the price of cement ii the growing prevalence of environmental and energy considerations among factors influencing owners decisions on selection of infrastructure systems and materials iii the significant governmental energy and environmental credits that can be realized by incorporating waste glass a post consumer waste into concrete and iv the growing emphasis of major owners of the concrete based infrastructure municipalities and businesses on maintenance and replacement life cycle costs noting that milled waste glass significantly benefits the service life and thus the life cycle economy of concrete based infrastructure.

Because other modifications and changes varied to fit particular operating requirements and environments will be apparent to those skilled in the art the disclosure is not considered limited to the example chosen for purposes of illustration and covers all changes and modifications which do not constitute departures from the true spirit and scope of this disclosure.

Accordingly the foregoing description is given for clearness of understanding only and no unnecessary limitations should be understood therefrom as modifications within the scope of the disclosure may be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art.

All patents patent applications government publications government regulations and literature references cited in this specification are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present description including definitions will control.

Throughout the specification where the compositions processes or apparatus are described as including components steps or materials it is contemplated that the compositions processes or apparatus can also comprise consist essentially of or consist of any combination of the recited components or materials unless described otherwise. Component concentrations can be expressed in terms of weight concentrations unless specifically indicated otherwise. Combinations of components are contemplated to include homogeneous and or heterogeneous mixtures as would be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art in view of the foregoing disclosure.

