---

title: System and method for biometric protocol standards
abstract: An initial certificate is provided that enables an initial two-way secured communication session between a user computing device and a trusted server. An initial secured communication session is established by the trusted server with the user computing device after receiving the one-time certificate. The trusted server receives identification information associated with the user of the user computing device, wherein the identification information includes a representation of the user's identity that has been confirmed as a function of biometrics and further includes a representation of the user computing device. Moreover, a replacement certificate is generated that is unique to the combination of the user and the user computing device, and transmits the replacement certificate to the user computing device. Thereafter, a two-way secured communication session is established, by the trusted server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338161&OS=09338161&RS=09338161
owner: HOYOS LABS IP LTD.
number: 09338161
owner_city: Oxford
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20150304
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 587 633 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR BIOMETRIC PROTOCOL STANDARDS filed Dec. 31 2014 which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 922 438 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR BIOMETRIC PROTOCOL STANDARDS filed Dec. 31 2013 the contents of each which is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth expressly in its respective entirety herein.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for acquiring and characterizing biometric features and in particular to systems and methods for acquiring and characterizing facial biometric features using a mobile device for the purposes of identifying or authenticating a user.

Information of all kinds continues to be stored and accessed remotely such as on storage devices that are accessible over data communication networks. For example many people and companies store and access financial information health and medical information goods and services information purchase information entertainment information multi media information over the Internet or other communication network. In addition to accessing information users can effect monetary transfers e.g. purchases transfers sales or the like . In a typical scenario a user registers for access to information and thereafter submits a user name and password to log in and access the information. Securing access to and from such information and data that is stored on a data communication network remains a paramount concern.

Accordingly a system and method are disclosed for providing secure communication between a user computing device and a trusted server. In one or more implementations an initial certificate that enables an initial two way secured communication session between the user computing device and the trusted server is provided. An initial secured communication session with the user computing device is established after receiving the initial certificate. During the initial secured communication generation of a replacement certificate that includes identification information associated with the user of the user computing device wherein the identification information includes a representation of the user s identity that has been confirmed as a function of biometrics and further includes a representation of the user computing device is caused. The trusted server receives during a subsequent communication session with the user computing device the replacement certificate with encoded information that represents that the user s identity has been verified. The trusted server establishes using the replacement certificate with the encoded information a two way secured communication session with the user computing device and during the two way secured communication session a request to access an object is received. The trusted server determines an object security level associated with the object and a subject security level associated the user and allows for the user computing device access to the object when the subject s security level is greater than or equal to the object s security level.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of the invention that refers to the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with one or more implementations a new set of standards referred to herein generally as Biometric Open Protocol Standards BOPS is provided that collectively or at least partially includes a framework for authenticating users. In accordance with BOPS authentication occurs between a user and particular service which is allocated by a computing device referred to herein generally as a BOPS server. This approach is more secure and practical than between user and an Internet website. In one or more implementations the BOPS server allocates security details and the user s presence is verified in an initial referred to herein generally as genesis operation which is described in greater detail below.

In one or more implementations the Biometric Open Protocol Standards provide identity assertion role gathering multi level access control assurance and auditing. In operation the BOPS includes software running on a client device e.g. running the ANDROID operating system iOS or other operating system on a trusted BOPS Server and on an intrusion detection system IDS . The BOPS allows pluggable components to replace existing components functionality by accepting integration into current operating environments in a short period of time.

In operation the client device application loads a one time 2 way SSL key for initial communications to the server. This one time 2 way SSL key is replaced in function by the subject s two way SSL key that is provided during the identity Genesis phase.

By way of example only and for the purpose of overview and introduction embodiments of the present application are described below which include a system and method for recording a user s biometric features and generating an identifier representative of the user s biometric features for example using a mobile device such as a smartphone. The biometric identifier can be generated for the purposes of identifying authenticating e.g. verifying the user according to the biometric identifier.

In one or more implementations a system is provided that can include a cloud based system server platform that communicates with user computing devices such as laptops tablets and mobile devices e.g. smartphones . As the user accesses for example a website which requires a secure login a secure request is made to the system server for the user s authentication. The system server can then query the user s mobile device to capture biometric information in the form of at least images of the user s eyes periocular region and face or any combination of the foregoing collectively referred to as the Vitruvian region and encode the captured Vitruvian biometric information as a Vitruvian biometric identifier. Then the user can be verified according to the Vitruvian biometric identifier. Verification can be performed for example by the mobile device the system server or a combination of the foregoing by comparing the Vitruvian biometric identifier to a Vitruvian identifier generated during the user s initial enrollment with the system.

It is to be appreciated that the present application provides significant convenience for users and one or more information providers as a function of biometrics based access management. It is recognized by the inventor that consumers generally approve of biometrics for access to and management of information that is provided remotely such as on line over a communication network. Biometric technologies can provide consumer with a long awaited convenience to securely enter into cyberspace on the frontend.

The Biometric Open Protocol Standards provided herein protects users digital assets and digital identities on the backend and can be a biometrics agnostic standard and include an application programming interface API for developers to interface therewith. For example the present application supports different procedural and security based measures that may have been previously in place. Accordingly an existing security authentication process that employs biometrics can be integrated thereby precluding disruption of an existing business practice.

Moreover in one or more implementations a BOPS communication architecture is provided that enables a 2 way Secure Socket Layer SSL connection over the encryption mechanism to the BOPS server which can employ an Intrusion Detection System IDS .

The following is an alphabetical listing of terms and corresponding definitions in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present application. An additional glossary of terms is set forth herein.

Application a unique software system that is created using the BOPS Application Programming Interface API key.

BOPS Admin a BOPS administrator who sets up an environment and creates an Original Site Admin based on the enrollment information during the registration.

BOPS Server an instance of a server such as in the client server paradigm which supports BOPS architecture.

BOPS IDS an instance of the Intrusion Detection System on the private cluster that supports BOPS architecture.

Original Site Admin an administrator created by BOPS administrator with the privilege to create other administrators within the same organization. The Original Site Administrator can assert his her unique identity according to the client requirements see below with reference to section regarding Genesis API Client Requirements Note .

Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like elements is a simple block diagram illustrating a plurality of client devices and communication with a BOPS server and components associated with an example implementation. In one or more implementations Biometric Open Protocol Standards include rules governing secure communication between a variety of client devices and one or more trusted servers. As will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art the present application provides incentive values of BOPS and provides a comprehensive guidance to the BOPS implementation. BOPS conforms to the Trusted Computer System Evaluation Criteria frequently referred as Orange Book section B1 to the Director of the Central Intelligence Directive 6 3 protection levels 3 4 and 5 PL3 PL4 PL5 and to the standards of Multiple Independent Levels of Security MILS .

Security considerations include the security policies in place and unambiguously defined levels of security. One of the BOPS main functions is to provide authentication instead of authorization in a way such that the server does not retain the client information but instead recognizes one client from another. As noted herein key components of security considerations of the BOPS include identity assertion role gathering access control auditing and assurance. The present application including via an implementation of BOPS provides continuous protection to resources and assurance of the placement and viability of adjudication and other key features. Accountability is the mechanism that proves a service level guarantee of security.

The BOPS identity assertion provides a guarantee that named users are who they claim to be. The identity assertion implies reliance on human biometrics however the BOPS is an interoperable standard and can incorporate any identity asserter or a number of asserters that provides this guarantee. The application of the Intrusion Detection System IDS provides active monitoring to prevent spoofing of the credentials set and blacklisting of a subject or device that makes malicious attempts.

In one or more implementations role gathering is focused on data confidentiality and privileged access based on rules enforced by a known system. To determine whether a specific access mode is allowed the privilege of a role can be compared to the classification of the group to determine whether the subject is authorized for confidential access. The objects structure can be defined by the access control. Role gathering occurs on the system s level or through the client server call. The BOPS server stores role gathering information to associate a unique user with a unique device.

With regard to access control BOPS supports access control between the named users and the named objects e.g. files and programs . A role based adjudication mechanism includes and allows users and administrators to specify and control sharing of objects by named individuals by defined groups of individuals or by both. Moreover a discretionary access control mechanism is provided to ensure that objects are protected from unauthorized access. Further discretionary access control provides protection at the group or individual level across a singular or group of objects. The granularity ranges from individual to group.

In one or more implementations BOPS can enforce a mandatory access control policy over all subjects and storage objects under its control e.g. processes files segments devices . These subjects and objects can be assigned sensitivity labels which can be a combination of hierarchical classification levels and non hierarchical categories and the labels can be used in the adjudication as a basis for mandatory access control decisions.

In one or more implementations the following requirements hold for all access between subjects and objects controlled by the BOPS a subject can read an object only if the hierarchical classification in the subject s security level is greater than or equal to the hierarchical classification in the object s security level and the non hierarchical categories in the subject s security level include all the non hierarchical categories in the object s security level. A subject can write an object only if the hierarchical classification in the subject s security level is less than or equal to the hierarchical classification in the object s security level and all the non hierarchical categories in the subject s security level are included in the non hierarchical categories in the object s security level.

Identification and authentication data should be used by BOPS to authenticate the user s identity and to ensure that the security level and authorization of subjects external to the BOPS that may be created to act on behalf of the individual user are dominated by the clearance and authorization of that user.

The present application provides for auditing and review referred to generally herein as assurance. The BOPS can support auditing requests at the Subject Object level or at the group level. The BOPS can use Aspect Oriented Programming AOP to ensure that all calls are safely written to an audit trail. Moreover RESTFul web services and JSON interface can provide a mechanism to read the audit trail. Auditing may occur at the subject per action the object per action or the group per action. For example a group of users called Accounting may audit all writes to General Ledger or a Chief Financial Officer may have audits for reads of the Income Statement. Furthermore in one or more implementations JUnit tests are provided for all boundary conditions of the BOPS. The suite of tests includes testing all boundary components and conditions of the system.

As noted herein the BOPS allow systems to meet security needs by using an API. The BOPS need not know whether the underlying system is a Relational Database Management System RDBMS a Search Engine or other system. The BOPS functionality offers a point and cut mechanism to add the appropriate security to the production systems as well as to the systems in development. The architecture is a language neutral allowing REST JSON and Secure Socket Layers to provide the communication interface. Further in one or more implementations the architecture is built on the servlet specification open secure socket layers Java JSON REST and Apache Solr. Another persistence engine can be supported such as Cassandra. The tools can adhere to open standards allowing significant interoperability.

In one or more implementations BOPS are usable through access control or added to identity assertion of already existing framework. The BOPS enables trusted processing by performing the minimum actions in the production environment and in the most cases does not require the change of any application software.

Moreover in one or more implementations 2 way Secure Socket Layers SSL is provided that is built on a top of 1 way SSL provides communication starting at the client. The initial or genesis communication establishes the origin of the client s identity. Thereafter a BOPS compliant 2 way certificate is passed that the client uses for a subsequent communication in conjunction with the session oriented Identity Assertion. In one or more implementations the client application has a pre loaded 2 way SSL key that allows subsequent identity Genesis.

In operation a BOPS compliant server receives 1 way SSL communication with 2 way SSL identity. Communication is conducted both 1 way SSL and 2 way SSL. The server uses a data store to take trusted identity and gather the roles for processing on behalf of the identity. Auditing ensures the appropriate artifacts for continued verification and validation of the trusted access. The Assurance occurs through the simplification and documentation of the multi level access control mechanism. The BOPS uses an Administration Console that is available after the registration process See below with regard to Registration which allows dynamic modification of Users Groups and Roles.

In one or more implementations BOPS is implemented with an active intrusion detection system that provides prevention of any form of brute forcing or denial of service distributed or single DOS attacks. The standard contains a custom rule that identifies and tracks the attempts to forge 2 way SSL certificates impersonation a session replay forged packets and variety of other attempts to circumvent the BOPS server.

The following is a description of an example implementation of the present patent application. A registration process initiates the BOPS adoption within an organization. Before a BOPS administrator sets up an environment the organization registers to receive an API key for example from an Internet web site. An individual developer may apply for an API key as well. At enrollment completion the BOPS administrator original site administrator may create additional site administrators. In the future the enrollment information will be associated with the API key of the organization. The API registration can pertain to two domains the enrolled original site admin and the issued API key which is based on the enrollment information the organization and use case. The registration process is complete when the application commencement is agreed. Thereafter the BOPS admin creates original Site Admin for an organization the original site admin may create a site admin see . The steps after the registration are described below. illustrates an instance of roles hierarchy in accordance with the present application.

In an example implementation prior to the development process that utilizes the BOPS service a developer register in a BOPS Admin Console. By providing the application name and using for example a rules bases question and answer tool to identify the developer the BOPS establishes a new account and creates the API key which can be identified with the application name and associated with the application. The established API key can be included in all API calls to the BOPS server. The BOPS server validates the API key. If the key is expired or invalid the BOPS server immediately rejects the service request.

As noted herein in one or more implementations the communication between the application and the BOPS server is established on the top of 2 way SSL. The Genesis mechanism provides for establishing the connection. Genesis specifies how the users identify themselves to the BOPS server so that the server can generate a private key to set up the 2 way SSL communication between the user device application and the BOPS server . Moreover a unique ID can be provided that identifies the device of the end user. The device association API can be used to notify the BOPS server about the link between the user and the user s device.

The following example demonstrates communication between a client and a server. A request call to the BOPS server can have an API call with the possible exception of CreateApplication which creates the API Key. The request can originate from a client device to a secure server. The initial call receives 2 way SSL certificate and creates a user. The user can be created in a clustered persistent environment. The sums that prevent playback can be one way encrypted using SHA1. Switching SHA1 with any suitable algorithm does not change the algorithm.

For val1 n1 is a SHA1 sum of an integer between 59 and 59 added or subtracted from the current time in ISO 8601 format. For val2 n2 is a SHA1 sum of an integer between 59 and 59 and is greater than the plaintext value of n1. The values for username and password are client dependent and used to reach the current identity asserter. Similar mechanisms exist for SAML LDAP ActiveDirectory in conjunction with a variety of mechanism for Asserting Identity and Role Gathering.

The user scott has an email scott sample.com. The first replay value in a plain text is 5 and the second is 40. The sessionTimeout exists at the sessionId siteId pairing. For an administrator of the business customer website the sessionTimeout exists one hour.

In the greater detail the example works as follows with the current time as 2013 12 22T17 46 03.647Z. A calculation is made to move back to the five minute interval and get 2013 12 22T17 45 00.007Z with an SHA1 sum of fa8e14cf7f80f885084ee0e3cb256182bb6a4e40

https xyz.domain.com 8443 BOPS Instance Server genesisval1 fa8e14cf7f8 0f885084ee0e3cb256182bb6a4e40 val2 fa8e14cf7f80f885084ee0e3cb256182bb 6a4e40 newPassword gasol

The values associated with val1 is fa8e14cf7f80f885084ee0e3cb256182bb6a4e40 is a 5 offset and for val2 fa8e14cf7f80f885084ee0e3cb256182bb6a4e40 which happens to be the same for 40. The newPassword is the password for the 2 way SSL key which is preferably not stored on the BOPS server.

To execute this operation the BOPS Server must have the SHA1 sum for all integers between 59 and 59 to decipher the sums.

The following represents subsequent API calls. For example at 2 18 pm Zulu time user scott uses a client device Android phone to create a session. The call contains deviceId for a session as well as the following parameters 

To prevent the replay of a previous session or a replacement the key kernel object files the BOPS server can contain SHA1 sums for commands names and the files on a version by version basis. Using the BOPS protocol in a conjunction with the BOPS intrusion detection system can prevent a replay attack. The IDS updates the list of the blacklisted objects as threats and attacks on the further attack recognition level.

The following discussion regards an overview of an API in accordance with one or more implementations of the present application. In one or more implementations API names are in RESTful JavaScript Object Notation JSON format.

With regard to identity assertion API individual developers can apply for an API Key for their applications that will use BOPS. Once individual developers have their own API Keys API calls that are made by their applications can insert this API Key as one of parameters. The LDAP can verify the API Key at that API level. Furthermore application identification creates an application for use by a development team.

A discussion of an example application creation process in accordance with an example implementation is now provided. After application commencement is agreed upon the overall BOPS admin creates a user with the special role of orirginalSiteAdmin. Once the original site admin exists the first action of the person with the originalSiteAdmin role associates his her biometrics with identity. Thereafter actions have genesis and API. Additionally the originalSiteAdmin role can create users of siteAdmin role. The siteAdmin role is used for additional administration work.

With regard to an example Genesis API The genesis service is an initial setup for a user. It can work with previously stored initial identities or can use an external axiom services for the initial identity.

In one or more example implementations there can be several defined rules for client devices to ensure identity. These rules can include 1 the client authentication device does not require additional devices 2 false negatives must be below a pre defined percentage e.g. 

In one or more implementations role gathering is retrieved from an authoritative Role Source e.g. Active Directory LDAP or relational database Big Data server or is conducted through an additional API call on a BOPS server to find the list of Roles. Roles can be gathered and stored in the BOPS server.

The following describes dynamic image code session construction in accordance with one or more implementations of the present application. For example Web Page for Dynamic Image returns sessionId. A sub API call returns a MIME encoded image that has the sessionId in the dynamic image. The other returns a URL of the image and the sessionId in JSON text format. At the conclusion of the session construction all Roles labels can be associated with the User.

Continuing with dynamic image code session construction in one or more example implementations an input device scans a dynamic image and validates the scanned sessionId with BOPS which triggers the triple association of user device and session. The BOPS client software validates the biometric. The biometric status is sent to the BOPS Server. In one or more implementations the biometric data itself is not sent to the BOPS Server to satisfy privacy concerns. Thereafter the device scans biometric and a sessionID is created. In one or more implementations the session status sessionId returns sessionNotReady validationInProgress userAuthenticated userRejected sessionTerminated sessionExpired. sessionLogoff and userLogoff. Session Termination brings a logoff notification. Once received the session can be closed for a future activity as defined by the sessionLogoff in SessionID. SessionID creation failures can be governed by an IDS which can then take appropriate actions to terminate the sessionID creation this may be blocking IP addresses blacklisting domains blacklisting users or other means. The blacklisting has a hierarchy of restricting access to the system based on the complex machine learning rules.

Turning now to an example access control API given sessionId the data label and the access are allowed. In one or more implementations the set of data in JSON format JSONArray of JSONObjects is a securityLabel field. The security label field is matched against the roles associated with the user through the session. If the data JSONObject is a subset of the roles then the data is returned. Otherwise the partial data of JSONObject is not returned. As the API redirects the call the returned data becomes restricted. At the redirect API call a getJSON call is intercepted.

The following describes an example implementation in which the access control algorithm is applicable for each user at the session construction time flattened the hierarchies. Accordingly a Manager users implies that the Manager label is both a Manager and a User then 

For adjudication if the data is a subset of the users roles groups the adjudication allows the user to see it 

At a given point in time the user works at the security level that is non hierarchical. Irrespective of the number of flattened labels the user works at one label at the time when it comes to writes. For example if Bob is working as a manager he may only write data as a manager. If he is working as a user then he may only write data as a user. This prevents the security policy from violation by write down. 

Turning now to one or more implementations and with regard to auditing steps associated with Identity Assertion Session Creation and Adjudication have an audit capability. The capability may be set for any user groups of users or roles across any action read write on any set of data. The audit can be stored and gathered RESTfully and then stored in a BOPS Server.

Turning now to administration in accordance with an example implementation the mapping of Users to Groups and Groups to Roles and Attributes to Groups is provided by an API call. All calls require a 2 way SSL communication layer and should be conducted by the administrator role.

Moreover reporting is supported and The administration level report is available in the auditing API.

The following is an example glossary of terms in accordance with one or more implementations of the present application.

The following is a description of an example implementation. To initiate the application a user authenticates his her face on the mobile application and is verified immediately. illustrates an example mobile device display screen prompting the user to proceed with authentication. The user also can be required to specify an email address that the mobile application sends the notifications to. This way the identity owner will receive the link to download a middleware application that synchronizes the mobile device and one or more desktop machines where the user would like to conduct a secure authentication. This middleware which can be installed through the standard Windows or OSX installer on every of each machine allows managing the user s login preferences via an application on a desktop.

Once the client application is initiated a user can access the bank account or other website on the computer by verifying his her identity. That could be done in several simple steps. With reference to a user is prompted to scan the QR code that appears on the screen with the phone. The user scans the QR code e.g. as shown in and thereafter once verified and authenticated access the content . If the user s identity cannot be verified the access to the web site will be denied. Once the identity is confirmed the user s account will be opened in the browser.

Thus in accordance with the systems and methods shown and described herein the present application provides for new and verifiable authentication access control role gathering assurance and auditing in connection with digital assets provided over a communication network. Following the Genesis process and binding a user s biometrics to the user s device a two way SSL key that has been signed by a certifying authority can be used for secure access and subsequent activity.

The present application provides for flexible implementations including that are associated with biometric authentication as well as for security provisions that may have been in place prior to the Genesis process. This provides for increased security without interfering with an organization s existing business methodology that regards access to digital assets. In one or more implementations the present application adds identity assertion without disrupting an existing business model.

Furthermore the present application provides for increased security by preventing spoofing such as in case a two way SSL unique identifier is replayed by a hacker. A hacker that is sophisticated and roots a smartphone for example in order to replace an fopen command with a new one and who steals a successful handshake and attempts to return the successful handshake to fool the system would be unable to gain access to the trusted server .

Accordingly the present application provides for significant improvement over known security measures by providing standards that collectively include a framework for authenticating users and enabling access to one or more digital assets thereby.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes can be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention as set forth in each and any of the following claims.

