---

title: Secure and anonymized authentication
abstract: An embodiment may involve receiving, by a computing system, a message from a wireless service provider system. The computing system may include one or more computing devices located, e.g., in the trusted cloud. The message may contain a service-provider-based identity of a client device, an indication that the service-provider-based identity has been authenticated by the wireless service provider, and a code that the client device obtained from a remote machine proximate to the client device. The computing system may generate an anonymized identity of the client device based on the service-provider-based identity. The computing system may verify that a task associated with the code is within the authorized capabilities of the anonymized identity. Possibly based on the code (and perhaps other information as well), the computing system may transmit an instruction to the remote machine. The instruction may direct the remote machine to perform the task.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09603019&OS=09603019&RS=09603019
owner: Confia Systems, Inc.
number: 09603019
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151022
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 295 516 filed Jun. 4 2014. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 295 516 claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 971 997 filed on Mar. 28 2014. These prior applications are considered part of and are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein.

Recent years have seen explosive growth of network connected devices. Once limited to just personal computers and servers now network connectivity is supported by doors and door locks digital signage network enabled kiosks e.g. parking meters vending machines and so on. Many of these devices interact with a user by way of the user s client device e.g. a smartphone so that the devices can perform tasks on behalf of the user. Given that billions of low cost network connected devices are expected to be deployed in the future it is desirable to be able to provide secure and private mechanisms with which a client device can interact with these devices.

Embodiments described herein can be used to transform machines associated with the Internet of things IOT to enable secure access control authorization operation control monitoring and or transactions. For example users can conduct transactions with connected machines e.g. enabling the machines to become transaction platforms. The transactions for example can be completed without the users having to specify personally identifiable information PII . Instead transactions can occur in an IOT trusted cloud or trusted cloud that provides a communication link from client devices of users who have previously provided information needed to complete the transactions to the connected machines.

Machines including IOT machines that can be used in transactions described herein can include any device capable of presenting providing and or dispensing information products or services in association with a user transaction. A machine may display information for a product or service or a machine may provide the product or service. Machines are user facing devices that are the initiating point for users to complete transactions within the Internet of things. IOT machines can be connected using a network e.g. that includes the Internet and can also be connected to other networks e.g. wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs and or other types of networks. For example a parking meter might not be connected directly to the Internet but it may be connected to a control station using a LAN and or to a network of parking meters connected with a WAN. In some cases a WAN or LAN that in communication with the parking meter may be connected to the trusted cloud using the Internet. In addition to parking meters connected devices or IOT machines or IOT devices can include for example vending machines digital signage devices connected cars building automation systems and other machines or devices that can be used to initiate and or complete an IOT transaction.

A variety of user devices including mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets can be used to convey send communicate a request during a transaction. A user device can be for example a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet a wearable device or a smart watch. User devices are directly operated by the user and can communicate with the Internet via a connection e.g. cellular wireless Wifi Bluetooth near field communication NFC radio frequency identification RFID or some other proximity networks. Other wireless techniques can include for example BLE audio picture and video. While user devices used in IOT transactions are typically mobile devices non mobile devices can also be used.

Users can include consumers technicians attendants students or anyone or anything else capable of initiating a transaction involving products or services that involves IOT machines. In some implementations for transactions to occur users can register with the trusted cloud including providing user credentials payment information e.g. for payment transactions and user preferences that identify how and when transactions are to be allowed. Connected machines can also be registered e.g. by an entity that owns or operates the machines. For example by registering the connected machines can be set up to perform transactions with users who are also registered. The owner operators of one or more IOT machines can also register an association with the IOT machines that they own operate.

Transactions can include user requests covering a variety of user engagement situations such as information requests action requests access requests registration requests and other types of transactions. These transactions can include for example automated retail machines such as vending machines machines that deliver tickets for movies transit etc. parking meters cafeterias or connected vehicles. Other automated retail machines may include unattended self service devices such as kiosks electric vehicle EV charging stations vehicle rental stations or devices e.g. bike share or car share programs automated beverage fountains e.g. machines allowing mixing of product to fit users taste at the place of consumption machines that deliver physical goods or digital goods. Transactions can also include sample information requests option selections pre paid use voting surveys reservations registrations authorization access and control monitoring operations e.g. opening a gate accessing a physical door or a logical account.

A transaction with a registered vending machine for example can be initiated when the user captures e.g. scans enters records information e.g. a Quick Response QR code a barcode an image a text code e.g. alphanumeric code audio or a digital analog signal including data collected via a radio interface such as NFC Bluetooth beacon or RFID or entered as a text short message service SMS or multimedia message service MMS message. For example the transaction can be initiated with data captured from a displayed code on a vending machine. Information associated with the transaction can be sent to the trusted cloud including information identifying the user and or the user device the vending machine and the product to be purchased. The transaction can be authorized in the trusted cloud then the product desired by the user can be dispensed or made enabled to be dispensed by an action of the user.

Particular implementations may realize one or more of the following advantages. A transaction can occur using a single transaction request initiated on a user device and sent to the trusted cloud without PII being exposed at the time of the transaction. Thus the trusted cloud can be used to turn any connected device into a secure transaction platform.

Accordingly a first example embodiment may involve receiving by a computing system a message from a wireless service provider system. The computing system may include one or more computing devices located e.g. in the trusted cloud. The message may contain a service provider based identity of a client device an indication that the service provider based identity has been authenticated by the wireless service provider and a code that the client device obtained from a remote machine proximate to the client device. The computing system may generate an anonymized identity of the client device based on the service provider based identity. The anonymized identity may have been established by way of a registration of the client device or a user thereof. The computing system may verify that a task associated with the code is within the authorized capabilities of the anonymized identity. Possibly based on the code and perhaps other information as well the computing system may transmit an instruction to the remote machine. The instruction may direct the remote machine to perform the task.

In a second example embodiment an article of manufacture may include a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon program instructions that upon execution by a computing system cause the computing system to perform operations in accordance with the first example embodiment.

In a third example embodiment a computing system may include at least one processor as well as data storage and program instructions. The program instructions may be stored in the data storage and upon execution by the at least one processor cause the computing system to perform operations in accordance with the first example embodiment.

In a fourth example embodiment a system may include various means for carrying out each of the operations of the first example embodiment.

These as well as other embodiments aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings. Further it should be understood that this summary and other descriptions and figures provided herein are intended to illustrate embodiments by way of example only and as such that numerous variations are possible. For instance structural elements and process steps can be rearranged combined distributed eliminated or otherwise changed while remaining within the scope of the embodiments as claimed.

Example methods devices and systems are described herein. It should be understood that the words example and exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or feature described herein as being an example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or features. Other embodiments can be utilized and other changes can be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein.

Thus the example embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are contemplated herein.

Further unless context suggests otherwise the features illustrated in each of the figures may be used in combination with one another. Thus the figures should be generally viewed as component aspects of one or more overall embodiments with the understanding that not all illustrated features are necessary for each embodiment.

The single transmission initiated transaction for example can originate in a carrier domain e.g. associated with the user s phone carrier . The single transmission initiated transaction can be completed in a web domain . Within the carrier domain for example the user can use the user device to scan a code e.g. a QR code associated with a particular snack that can be dispensed by the connected machine to initiate the single transmission initiated transaction as part of a communication with a carrier authentication system . Other ways can be used to identify a product or service that is the subject of the single transmission initiated transaction such as by transmission of a text message from the user device that includes a code or some other identifier associated with the connected machine or a product dispensed by the connected machine or in some other way.

The carrier authentication system for example can authenticate the user and the user device e.g. as being part of a phone plan. If authorization is successful for example then an authenticated version of the single transmission initiated transaction can be included in communication that is received by a context aware multi factor authentication MFA system within a trusted cloud . Authentication that occurs in the carrier domain includes authentication that typically occurs between a carrier e.g. cell phone carrier and a customer.

The trusted cloud can include a transaction processing system for example to complete the single transmission initiated transaction . For example as will be described in detail below the transaction processing system can use existing information available to or accessible by the trusted cloud such as payment information for the user and information registered for the connected machine . Authorization that occurs in the web domain includes verifying that the user is registered with the trusted cloud and that other conditions of the single transmission initiated transaction are in place e.g. including user specified payment methods . If the transaction is authorized by the transaction processing system for example then the trusted cloud can send a message to the connected machine e.g. to complete the transaction.

For example if the connected machine is a snack vending machine then the message can be a message for the vending machine to release or dispense the snack chosen by the user e.g. by scanning the QR code . Additionally payment for the service or product can be processed using a preferred or pre specified payment method previously indicated by the user . For example a credit card previously entered by the user can be charged. As another example a debit to a bank account previously identified by the user can be made by the transaction processing system . The transaction can be completed in the above described manner without the connected machine ever transmitting a communication to the transaction processing system in association with the transaction. In this example the transaction is initiated by the user using the user device without a wireless communication being transmitted by the connected machine .

For example benefits of transactions that occur in the environment include high security with a carrier that authenticates the device e.g. an AAA radius server or other enterprise grade authentication to which user is bound. Another benefit for example is an ease of use for the user e.g. as a transaction request is performed simply with one single transmission that is well suited for mobile commerce. Other conventional methods for performing a mobile transaction may require many more steps which can raise a barrier to and slow down mobile commerce adoption. Optionally users can also add fingerprints or other biometrics techniques to unlock the device if the mobile phone hardware permits it. Another benefit for example is that an initial authentication is complemented by a context aware multi factor authentication increasing further the security of the solution as explained below.

In some implementations other architectures and forms of communication and or processing are possible. For example portions of the processing done by the trusted cloud can be external to the trusted cloud and portions of the processing done in the carrier domain can be done elsewhere such as in the trusted cloud or by a third party company. Other arrangements are possible.

The connected device can include a security software client loaded in the computing unit of the connected device . For example the device client can perform authentication and other security services for communicating securely with the trusted cloud and or other entities. The computing unit of the connected device also includes a telemetry module for providing online visibility and status of the connected vending machine.

In some implementations elements can perform functions of the transaction processing system described with reference to . In some implementations the trusted cloud can include modules that perform the primary processing of received transactions.

The interaction module for example can receive transaction requests e.g. the single transmission initiated transaction from the user device . For example the interaction module can perform functions related to transaction request validation product pricing promotions and discount policies.

The processing module for example can process the received transaction and perform processing including invoking at least one of payment methods that are registered with the trusted cloud by the user for completing transactions. For example the processing module can determine if a payment is OK or not OK. If the payment is OK for example the processing module can interface with payment engines thru APIs and perform user and merchant notifications.

The device management module for example can manage connected devices e.g. a connected machine such as a vending machine . For example the device management module can perform functions related to device e.g. connected machine authentication secure data communications notification of payment results e.g. OK NOK and notifications for the release of products information services.

In some implementations the device management module can use information about a user s location e.g. detected by Global Positioning System GPS cell phone towers and or other methods to verify that the user s geographic location is in proximity to the connected machine s physical location. For example the location of the connected machine can be a known latitude longitude location a street address a GPS location or some other location.

The processing module further includes a payment and access control subsystem for handling payments and interfacing with third party entities. An administration module for example can perform administrative function of the access control subsystem . A monitoring module for example can monitor payment accounts and other payment related aspects of the processing module . A business intelligence BI module for example can apply business related aspects to payments for transactions. A token repository for example can provide a data store of tokens that can be used in transactions e.g. in lieu of account information and or personally identifiable information. A charge back reverse transition dispute resolution module for example can handle recovery rollback and error recovery in case a problem occurs with a transaction. A payment or access control interface module for example can serve as an interface for the payment and access control subsystem to external entities such as payment connectors and and an access control service provider .

In some implementations the connectors e.g. can access service providers for third party payments e.g. PayPal loyalty membership services e.g. resort club or enterprise access services e.g. a company ID . For example a user can seamlessly pay for the requested product with PayPal if payment is required. In another environment for example if a resort offers privileged access to services then the user request can be fulfilled provided the user has registered the user s resort membership card. In another environment for example in an enterprise building employees could get beverages and snacks from a vending machines e.g. paid for by the employer if their respective enterprise IDs are registered. Examples that follow show how the processing module can work with a variety of third party payment and or access service providers.

In some implementations user preferences can include information that identifies how certain payments are to be handled. For example the user can define a preference that indicates if the charge is less than 5 then use payment method X if the charge is between 10 and 30 then use payment method Y otherwise use payment method Z. Other preference can put limits on the number of charges in a day limits on monetary amounts in a given time period limits of charges to specific time periods and so on.

Account management can begin for example upon successful activation of the user account. At step user account blocking is enabled e.g. for potential use upon discovery of a stolen or lost phone. At step user account re activation is enabled e.g. to enable a user to reactivate an account such as if a lost phone is recovered. At step transaction histories are maintained during account management and over the course of transactions and are made available to be provided to the user. At step usage statistics are provided e.g. available online through a browser by email by text through an app interactive voice response IVR and or other technologies that allow a computer to interact with humans.

Account management can begin for example after creation of the temporary PIN. At step registration completion is enabled via a browser an app an IVR a phone in or through a customer support representative CSR . At step user account blocking is enabled e.g. for potential use upon discovery of a stolen or lost phone. At step user account re activation is enabled e.g. to enable a user to reactivate an account such as if a lost phone is recovered. At step transaction history is provided e.g. to track user transactions that have occurred. At step usage statistics are provided e.g. available online through a browser by email by text through an app IVR and or other technologies that allow a computer to interact with humans.

User account management can begin once the user account is created. For example at step user account blocking is enabled e.g. for potential use upon discovery of a stolen or lost phone. At step user account re activation is enabled e.g. to enable the user to reactivate an account such as if a lost phone is recovered. At step transaction history is provided e.g. to track user transactions that have occurred. At step usage statistics are provided e.g. available online through a browser by email by text through an app IVR and or other technologies that allow a computer to interact with humans.

At step a service provider master account is registered with the trusted cloud e.g. with an approved list of employee or authorized agent accounts. At step an employee or authorized agent account creation request is sent to the service provider master account. At step if the request approved a service provider employee or authorized agent account is created. At step account data and a confirmation are sent to service provider master account.

At step templates are provided to create an inventory of connected devices virtual or real available services transactions and policies. At step business report and data log activity log data and analytics data are obtained. At step activity history across some or all retail points is obtained e.g. including some or all connected devices owned or operated by the merchant on a per location basis or some other grouping. At step access is provided to the service provider master account e.g. restricted to service provider employees or authorized agents e.g. limited to their own activity .

During account management for example at step API connector parameters technical and business are set according to existing agreements e.g. with the trusted cloud . At step settings and a lock configuration are tested validated. At step business report data log and activity log data are obtained.

In some implementations the transaction can include a confirmation request e.g. sent by the interaction module such as to display a confirmation message to the user on the user device . In response a confirmation can be sent to the processing module . It everything in the transaction is authorized and successful including payment then device management module can send an approval notification to the user device and a notification to the connected machine e.g. to dispense the product at which time product release occurs.

At step if the transaction request is validated then the user engagement module is triggered. At step user information is retrieved e.g. including a token associated with the user. At step service authorization is requested e.g. using at least one of the consult service provider modules . At step if service authorization is OK a connection is made with an authorization server e.g. a payment gateway to determine if payment associated with the transaction is authorized. At step a determination is made whether payment is authorized. At step if service authorization related to payment is declined then the transaction is aborted and notifications are sent to the user e.g. for display on the user device and to the merchant.

At step if the payment is OK then payment data is collected e.g. by the user engagement module . At step transaction data is sent to the device management module for further processing. At step fulfillment occurs e.g. a snack is dispensed from a vending machine and a notification is sent to the user.

Processing in the trusted cloud can include getting the user ID e.g. to access user account information for the user verifying user credentials applying policies and performing the validated request. If the transaction is approved including payment information then the trusted cloud can send an order to the connected device IOT e.g. a notification to the identified device IOT object e.g. to dispense the product or provide the service that is associated with the transaction. The transaction for example can characterize an identity based transaction process that is more secure than conventional methods which can transmit across networks and devices sensitive user credentials e.g. retail payment or enterprise network access .

Transaction details e.g. for a transaction for buying a beverage includes looking up and applying a product price e.g. that can further be displayed on the vending machine and is known by the trusted cloud based on a product ID . The transaction can be initiated using a smartphone e.g. by scanning a QR code or by receiving product information using near field NFC communication . Alternatively the transaction can be initiated on the smartphone or any phone by entering a code as a text or SMS message that is to be sent to the trusted cloud . The transaction includes a payment e.g. to a payment ecosystem . For example the trusted cloud can interact with the payment ecosystems through connectors as explained with reference to .

To select a particular charge duration the user can make a selection e.g. by scanning the corresponding QR code or capturing the corresponding text code and machine ID. Payment for the selected charge duration is made in the trusted cloud . The user can receive a notification upon completion of the charge. In this example the codes that include the charge durations can also identify a specific one of the charging station e.g. in a group of charging stations in one location or that differentiates the charging station from one in a different physical location. In some implementations a code for the charging station can be entered in addition to the charge duration code.

At a transaction request is received that is initiated by a device associated with the consumer. The transaction request is received at a computing system having a prior registration of the consumer and a prior registration of a product or service provider associated with the engaged machine. The transaction request includes i information sufficient for the computing system to identify the consumer from among all registered consumers ii information sufficient for the computing system to identify the product or service provider associated with the engaged machine from among all registered product or service providers and iii information obtained from the machine that is sufficient for the computing system to identify a proposed transaction between the consumer and the product or service provider.

For example as described above the trusted cloud can receive a transaction from the user device such as initiated by the user who is registered in the trusted cloud . The interaction module can use transaction information to identify the user from among other users who are registered in the trusted cloud . For example the user s phone number included with the transaction request can be used to identify the user from a plurality of other registered users. In some implementations the transaction information can further include information that can be used to identify the engaged machine from a plurality of engaged machines or information that can be used to identify a particular product or service from a plurality of products or services. Referring to for example transaction information includes information that identifies beverage from among other products including other beverages sold from the same vending machine. In another example the transaction can instead identify a product or service identified in .

In some implementations the machine can be a network connected automated retail machine and the transaction request further includes information sufficient to identify a specific product available at the automated retail machine. For example referring to the transaction received by the trusted cloud can uniquely identify the connected device e.g. a vending machine from among hundreds or thousands of other connected devices that are associated with the same merchant or other merchants. The transaction can also identify the beverage from among all other beverages and other products that may be offered for sale by the vending machine.

In some implementations the transaction request can further include information sufficient for the computing system to identify the engaged machine from among a plurality of machines associated with the product or service provider associated with the engaged machine and the process can further comprise using the received engaged machine identifying information to identify the engaged machine from among the plurality of machines. For example the trusted cloud can use connected machine related information included in the transaction to identify the particular connected device e.g. the vending machine as described above.

In some implementations the consumer identifying information provided in the received transaction request comprises a unique identifier for the device. For example the transaction that is received by the trusted cloud identifies the user device from among other registered user devices.

At the received consumer identifying information and the received product or service provider information is used to identify the parties to the proposed transaction from among all registered consumers and all registered product or service providers. For example the trusted cloud can identify the user and the merchant associated with the beverage as described above.

At an authorization process for the proposed transaction is initiated by the computing system and on behalf of the registered consumer that is a party to the proposed transaction. In response an authorization decision result is received wherein the authorization process for the proposed transaction is performed without further communication between the computing system and the device associated with the consumer. For example the interaction module can authorize the transaction as described above. The authorization occurs for example without receiving an additional communication from the connected device .

In some implementations the process can further include initiating by the computing system a payment process to obtain payment from an account of the consumer for the proposed transaction wherein the payment process is performed in response to verification that the consumer is a registered user of the device and that the consumer is an account holder for the payment account. For example a name of a user associated with a user device from which a transaction request is received can be identified. The user s name can be associated with a phone number for the transaction request for example. A name associated with a bank account credit card debit card etc. that is identified as a payment account for the transaction can also be identified. The system can then verify that the name associated with the payment account and the name associated with the user device are the same. In other words the transaction request is verified by ensuring that the user device that initiated the transaction request and the payment account for the transaction request are registered to the same person.

For transactions involving a payment e.g. associated with the transactions of at least the processing module can perform processing as described above e.g. related to one or more payments for the product s or service s associated with the particular transaction. In some implementations the process can further include the use of a convention to group multiple product or service selections. For example if a transaction request for a single product has a structure syntax along the lines of    then a structure syntax for a multiple product selection could be done as follows   . In some implementations a maximum number of orders in a group can be defined by the service provider. Similarly a QR code generated dynamically can include selections of several products or services included in one single transaction request. The above convention example of a structure syntax is shown for illustrative purpose only and other conventions for grouping multiple orders from same machine can be implemented. Further the process can process QR codes that are generated dynamically by the machine including for group selections.

In some implementations the process can further include initiating by the computing system and prior to receiving the transaction request a payment validation process that includes validating a form of payment specified by the consumer wherein the authorization process is performed responsive to the form of payment being successfully validated. For example payment processing performed by the processing module can include verifying that a payment method e.g. credit card etc. designated by the user e.g. as part of a registration process is valid and that transactions can be processed using the payment method. This verification process can occur prior to transaction requests being received from the user such that when a transaction request is received payment authorization for the transaction request can be processed quickly and efficiently.

At if the authorization decision result indicates that the proposed transaction is authorized an authorization communication is transmitted e.g. for receipt by at least the engaged machine from the computing system that authorizes the proposed transaction to be fulfilled. For example if payment processing is completed successfully by the processing module then the device management module can provide a notification to the connected device e.g. to authorize the dispensing of the beverage .

In some implementations the proposed transaction can include delivery of a product or performance of a service by the engaged machine and the delivery of the product or the performance of the service by the engaged machine is initiated in response to receipt of the authorization communication by the engaged machine. For example the transaction can be associated with any of the products or services described with reference to . The trusted cloud can authorize the delivery of the particular product or service if the parties associated with the transaction are authorized and if payment if needed as part of the transaction completes successfully.

In some implementations a transaction request can be initiated when a user initiates a communication from a user device e.g. using an app or SMS scans or enters or otherwise captures product merchant IDs and or an access code and transmits the request in a single step. The user s transaction request is in the carrier domain at this stage. In some implementations a carrier authentication server authenticates the device. For example only a valid device from an actual customer of the carrier would be accepted and a message can be transmitted to the receiving computer system which is in the web domain authenticating the device. In other words the request arriving at the receiving computer system comes from an authenticated user which is different from conventional systems for transactions of this sort.

In some implementations metadata that is received along with the transaction request is used to authenticate the device. Metadata can include information associated with the user device such as a device ID for the user device or a phone number for the user device. A message such as an SMS message having an associated phone number can only be sent from a device that is associated with the phone number. The communications carrier e.g. cell phone service provider for the user device receives the transaction request from the user and provides the transaction request to the trusted cloud. The trusted cloud can authenticate the message based on the telephone number provided by the communications carrier along with the transaction request by identifying that the telephone number is associated with the user of the user device. This allows authorization of the transaction without further communication between the trusted cloud and the user device.

The message content combined with data provided by the carrier after on the fly authentication is sufficient and complete enough to trigger the transaction. A commerce part of the request is also included in the content of the message. The process combines device authentication performed in the carrier domain additional multi factor authentication and transaction activities performed in the web domain e.g. resulting from a single transmission request from the user . Using this process user authentication commerce data and consumer data are combined in one single transmission. In some implementations receiving computer systems can also apply several policy functions on requests of this sort e.g. using a rich set of data about the transaction event e.g. IDs and attributes that have been collected before the actual payment occurs. This type of carrier authentication service can be provided for example by a partner of the carrier providing this service.

In some implementations device authentication is based at least in part on contractual information in which the user is bound contractually with the carrier with the device. For example the user access code can be cryptographically tied to the user device and thus cannot be reused in another device. In some implementations if a device is equipped with fingerprint or other biometrics technology the user can include that method to unlock the device and this option is an additional option to be decided upon by the user in addition to the process described above. In some implementations tokenization can occur for the phone number itself so that even the user s phone number does not reside in the trusted cloud.

Identity based transactions for example can identify the parties involved in a transaction after authentication has occurred and enable a business interaction with or without payment e.g. without exchanging sensitive credentials . For example the user who initiates the transaction can be pre registered with the trusted cloud. At the time of registration for example when selecting a payment method e.g. a credit debit or other card the trusted cloud can request from the payment network tokenized data related to the user s payment card. This will allow the trusted cloud to use tokens instead of payment card credentials for transactions that occur in the trusted cloud. For example when a user requests a subsequent transaction the user s token can be sent to the payment system.

In some implementations the following example process can occur. The user sends a request with a smartphone or other registered device and transmits a message including commerce information e.g. product service ID merchant ID etc. . The user s ID is also sent automatically as part of this transmission. The receiving computing system parses the IDs validates the request e.g. to identify blocked or unauthenticated users or invalid demands are rejected applies relevant business policies and sends tokenized data related to the user account to an external payment service provider. Using the user s tokenized data the payment request is processed and response is sent back to receiving computing system. If the response is positive for example the receiving computing system has all the information needed to complete the transaction and the merchant e.g. connected device associated with the merchant is instructed to release the requested product service. If the response from the payment service provider is negative then the transaction request is rejected.

There are advantages of this process over conventional systems. First no user credentials are exposed which removes vulnerability and costs complexities associated with the handling of credentials. Second the transaction occurs only when there exists valid identities with the presentation of identity data e.g. without requiring credentials . Thus this process provides an identity based transaction IBT in which user credentials are used in the trusted cloud in a protected environment and not made visible to the merchant. Thirdly numerous security and business policies can be applied to the various participants as their identities are known by the receiving computing system. Fourthly the process is suitable for mobile commerce e.g. without requiring a hardware change and or storage of credential information in the phone. Fifthly the process simplifies the human machine interaction allowing transaction to occur in a simple secure manner with any connected machines. Interactions using this process are not limited to payment. For example other forms of consumer engagement are also made possible with this invention such as registrations as described above. In general the interaction is a business application between one entity e.g. an authenticated user and a second entity e.g. an authenticated connected device both known by the receiving computing system e.g. the trusted cloud .

In some implementations transaction processing such as the process can further include additional steps for communication authentication. For example as described above with reference to authorization performed by the trusted cloud can use information that is shared between the carrier domain for the communications carrier associated with the user device and the web domain . Specifically authentication can include metadata added automatically to a transaction request by the authentication carrier system . The metadata for example can include information associated with the user e.g. user name phone number or tokens for the same that further identifies the user as being an authenticated user and sender of the transaction request. During authentication the authentication system can access account information for the user e.g. to verify that the user and associated account are valid and or for other purposes. In some implementations the trusted cloud can work directly with this metadata e.g. including an authenticated device identifier as is or the trusted cloud can receive data derived from this metadata e.g. using a cryptographic transformation or a one way transformation performed by the carrier or a by third party provider that is sent to the trusted cloud .

In some implementations transaction processing can further include initiating by the computing system a payment process to obtain payment from an account of the consumer for the proposed transaction wherein the payment process is performed in response to verification that the consumer is a registered user of the device and that the consumer is an account holder for the payment account. For example the processing module can perform transaction processing including processing related to payments for a transaction that has been authenticated by the interaction module as described above.

In some implementations the machine can be a network connected machine that is a vending machine kiosk parking meter electric vehicle charging station digital signage or a connected car. Other machines are possible e.g. including rental machines gambling gaming devices and other machines.

In some implementations the engaged machine can provide a product or service identifier that is provided to the device for the transaction request. For example engaged machines can provide a unique identifier for a product or service identified in transactions described above with reference to . Other identifiers associated with other engaged machines are possible.

In some implementations transaction processing such as the process can further include the receipt of information from an automated retail machine. For example a process can include receiving a transaction request initiated by a device associated with the consumer the transaction request being received at a computing system having a prior registration of the consumer and a prior registration of a product provider associated with the engaged automated retail machine the transaction request comprising i information sufficient for the computing system to identify the consumer from among all registered consumers ii information sufficient for the computing system to identify the product provider associated with the engaged automated retail machine from among all registered product providers iii information obtained from the engaged automated retail machine that is sufficient for the computing system to identify a proposed transaction between the consumer and the product provider and iv information obtained from the automated retail machine that is sufficient for the computing system to identify a product to be provided as part of the proposed transaction from among a plurality of products available at the engaged automated retail machine using the received consumer identifying information and the received product provider information to identify the parties to the proposed transaction from among all registered consumers and all registered product providers initiating by the computing system and on behalf of the registered consumer that is a party to the proposed transaction an authorization process for the proposed transaction and in response receiving an authorization decision result and if the authorization decision result indicates that the proposed transaction is authorized transmitting an authorization communication from the computing system that authorizes the proposed transaction to be fulfilled the authorization communication including information that is sufficient for the engaged automated retail machine to identify the product to be provided as part of the proposed transaction. For example the information obtained from the automated retail machine that is sufficient for the trusted cloud to identify a product can be an identifier for the beverage that is received from the vending machine.

In some implementations the process includes a payment process to obtain payment from an account of the consumer for the proposed transaction wherein the payment process is performed in response to verification that the consumer is a registered user of the device and that the consumer is an account holder for the payment account.

In some implementations transaction processing can further include prior to transmitting the authorization communication determining that the engaged automated retail machine is able to perform the proposed transaction including dispensing the product to be provided as part of the proposed transaction wherein the authorization communication is transmitted in response to determining that the engaged automated retail machine is able to perform the proposed transaction. For example the trusted cloud can communicate with the connected machine to determine that the beverage is ready to be dispensed.

In some implementations the consumer identifying information provided in the received transaction request comprises a service provider number for the device. As an example the interaction module can identify a specific service provider identified from information in the received transaction for use in completing the transaction.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed controller connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed controller connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a graphical user interface GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed controller . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multiprocessor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of duties is an example only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed bus . The low speed bus e.g. a low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as computing device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing devices and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The computing device may also be provided with a storage device such as a micro drive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may also include separate analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the computing device such as control of user interfaces applications run by computing device and wireless communication by computing device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD display or an OLED display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provided in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of computing device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication e.g. via a docking procedure or for wireless communication e.g. via Bluetooth or other such technologies .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to computing device through expansion interface which may include for example a subscriber identification module SIM card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for computing device or may also store applications or other information for computing device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for computing device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of computing device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or MRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor .

Computing device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through transceiver e.g. a radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth Wifi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS receiver module may provide additional wireless data to computing device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on computing device .

Computing device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of computing device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on computing device .

Computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. Other programming paradigms can be used e.g. functional programming logical programming or other programming. As used herein the terms machine readable medium or computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Using features of the embodiments described above further embodiments involving secure and anonymized authentication may be employed. In particular these further embodiments improve the security of transactions between a device and a machine and do not require that information identifying the device or user thereof is disclosed to the machine.

In the discussion below a client device may refer to any type of user device described above e.g. user device . However devices that are not associated with a particular user may also be considered to be a client device. A remote machine may refer to any type of connected device connected machine IOT device or IOT machine described above e.g. connected machine . Further a computing system may include one or more computing devices configured as part of a trusted cloud infrastructure.

Additionally the embodiments described below may incorporate any or all of the features operations functions components or structural aspects described in the context of above. Thus for instance a client device may be exemplified by computing device and a computing system may include one or more of computing device .

At step of user presents credentials to connected device . This step may involve swiping of a credit card or access card entry of information from such a card or some other mechanism. User or some other party may indicate to connected device other details regarding the transaction such as a location payment information an identity of user and so on. At step connected device reads the credentials and transmits the credentials and any of the other details to computing system .

At step computing system verifies the transaction based on the credentials and possibly other information . At step computing system transmits approval of the transaction to connected device . At step connected device may indicate that the transaction has been approved. For example this indication may involve connected device displaying information or otherwise changing state.

There are a number of vulnerabilities associated with transaction or any similar transaction. For instance when user presents credentials to connected device these credentials may be observed by other parties who could later use the credentials in a fraudulent transaction. Additionally the credentials may be stored in connected device for some period of time making connected device a target for being compromised either physically or electronically. Moreover a representation of the credentials may be stored in computing system again providing a target for comprise.

If user stores the credentials on a client device such as a smartphone this platform may be vulnerable to malware and or spyware applications designed to capture either the stored credentials or credentials entered into the device. In some cases the malware and or spyware can be embedded inside legitimate applications which makes detection of this problematic software difficult.

On top of concerns regarding the security of the credentials this transaction identifies user either by use of the credentials or other PII. Thus it lacks privacy. Even if the credentials are not compromised connected device and or computing system may maintain records of the transaction and these records may identify user .

Data security is a growing concern as large scale security breaches of credit card information personal information and other user account information is unfortunately becoming commonplace. The embodiments of mitigate at least some of risks associated with transactions such as transaction by providing secure and anonymized authentication.

Although not shown in these embodiments may involve client device or a user thereof pre registering with computing system . This registration may include establishment of an anonymized identity for client device see below for details . Also an account for client device may be established where this account is indexed by the anonymized identity. Thus the anonymized identity may have been created during the account registration process for client device . See and its accompanying text for one possible example thereof.

At step remote machine may display a code. This code may take various forms such as an alphanumeric code QR code barcode or image. Regardless of its exact form the code may identify remote machine and or represent a task that remote machine can perform on behalf of client device .

For instance remote machine may be a parking meter at which the user of client device is attempting to park a car and the code may represent the location of the parking meter and the cost of parking for a given duration. Alternatively remote machine may be or control a door lock of a secured facility to which the user of client device is attempting to gain access and the code may represent the door lock. In another alternative remote machine may be a vending machine from which the user to client device is attempt to obtain an item and the code may represent the vending machine and the item. Other possibilities exist.

In any case at step client device may obtain the code. In some situations the code if it is alphanumeric for instance may be manually entered into client device . In other situations client device may scan or otherwise capture an image of the code. For instance an application operating on client device may operate a camera integrated into client device to capture a representation of the code.

Once the code is obtained at step client device may transmit a representation of the code to wireless service provider . One possible way of doing so is for client device to transmit an SMS or MMS message containing the code to a particular recipient. For instance remote machine may display a message stating For more information text the numbers 1234 to 8475551212. As noted above this information may be manually entered into client device e.g. into a text messaging application operating on client device . On the other hand the code and recipient may be encoded into an image such as a QR code. An application operating on client device may obtain the image determine the code and recipient therefrom and transmit the message of step accordingly. In some cases client device may encrypt or otherwise obscure the code in the message so that wireless service provider is unable to read it.

As part of the process of communicating with a subscriber such as client device wireless service provider may carry out strong two way authentication with client device . In this way client device authenticates itself to wireless service provider and vice versa. Further all communications that client device sends or receives via wireless service provider may be protected by strong encryption. As a result the message transmitted by client device at step accurately identifies client device and protects the contents thereof.

Therefore at step wireless service provider may transmit a further message to computing system . This message may contain an identifier of client device such as a phone number obtained from the message of step an indication that this identifier is authenticated and the code.

At step computing system may generate an anonymized identifier from the identifier of step . For instance computing system may apply a one way function such as a one way hash or a tokenization of the identifier. In an example assuming that the identifier of step is a phone number computing system may apply Secure Hash Algorithm 3 SHA 3 to the phone number resulting in a hashed representation thereof. Other information may be used as input to the hash such as the identity of remote machine the identity of an operator of remote machine location of remote machine a business entity or person operating remote machine part or all of the code and or other information. Also if the code was encrypted at or prior to step it may be decrypted at step .

At step computing system may determine from the code the task that remote machine has been requested to perform on behalf of client device . In some examples computing system may have access to a database mapping codes or parts of codes to tasks. Thus computing system may look up the code or a part of the code in this database to determine the task.

At step computing system verifies that the task is within the authorized capabilities of the anonymized identifier. For instance if the task is validation of a payment computing system may verify that the account associated with client device has sufficient funds to cover the payment. Or if the task is the unlocking of a door at a secure facility computing system may verify that a user associated with the anonymized identity is permitted into the facility at the current time and by way of the door. Other possibilities exist.

Assuming that step is successful computing system may transmit an instruction to remote machine to perform the task on behalf of client device . In some cases this may involve computing system directly communicating with remote machine . In the scenario illustrated by on the other hand at step computing system transmits an instruction to perform the task to machine control device . Then at step machine control device transmits this instruction to remote machine .

In some deployments steps and or may involve transmitting the same instruction or similar instructions to multiple remote machines. Or either or both of these steps may involve transmitting different instructions to different remote machines. For instance if specific activities of two machines need to be triggered for the task to be carried out instructions may be transmitted to these two machines so that they may collectively perform the task.

A possible advantage to relaying the instruction through machine control device is to logically separate the operations of steps and from that of locating and addressing remote machine . Since there may be thousands or millions of remote machines in an IOT network it can be efficient for one or more remote machine control devices to manage and or mediate communications with these machines. In some embodiments machine control device may be a separate physical device from remote machine and in others machine control device may be a controller integrated into machine control device .

While depicts a client device such as a wireless computing device having its phone number authenticated by a wireless service provider other options are possible. For instance any type of computing device or component e.g. a laptop computer desktop computer smart card etc. may be associated with any type of identifier. This identifier may be authenticated by any trusted third party. For instance a desktop computer may be associated with a digital certificate and this digital certificate may be authenticated by a certificate authority rather than a wireless service provider.

In any event the out of band transaction which limits the direct communication between client device and remote machine has a number of advantages over the in band transaction in which these elements must interact closely. Notably the actual credentials of client device e.g. a credit card or account number are not revealed to remote machine wireless service provider or machine control device reducing opportunities for other parties acquiring these credentials. For instance if remote machine wireless service provider or machine control device are compromised the credentials of cannot be determined.

Further PII associated with client device is not revealed to remote machine wireless service provider or machine control device . Particularly remote machine is only aware that it was asked to perform a task on behalf of some client device or party and then it was instructed to carry out that task. If remote machine is compromised no information about client device is revealed. On the other hand if an audit of the tasks performed by remote machine on behalf of client devices is needed this information can be obtain by way of computing system .

Additionally anonymized identities can be discarded and regenerated at a very low cost. This further reduces the risk associated with their use. In comparison user credentials that have practically no usage limit carry a much higher risk if stolen.

Further even if client device is lost by or stolen from its legitimate user the ability of an unauthorized party to fraudulently use this device is limited. For instance a lock screen function may require that the user enter a PIN code fingerprint or other information before any further access to client device is permitted. Additionally any application used to capture an image of the code may also require entry of a passcode before use. But even if an unauthorized party is able to access the full functionality of client device the legitimate user can easily deactivate client device by informing wireless service provider . As such step and any steps following will not take place because authentication of client device with wireless service provider will fail.

An example of transaction for unlocking a door to provide access to a secure facility is as follows. A user carrying client device e.g. a smartphone may approach remote machine . Remote machine may include a display associated with the locked door. Perhaps after the user enters a request for access in remote machine remote machine may display a QR code. The QR code may encode an identity of remote machine and the request for access to the locked door.

The user captures the QR code with an application operating on client device . The application automatically processes this code perhaps converting it to an alphanumeric sequence to determine the identity of remote machine and that unlocking the door is being requested. The application then generates an SMS message containing this information and transmits the message to wireless service provider . In some embodiments instead of an SMS message an Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD message or some other peer to peer message instant message or client server message e.g. an HTTP request may be used instead. Other types of messages and or signaling protocols may be used as well.

From the message wireless service provider determines the phone number of client device . Wireless service provider then authenticates client device and its phone number and transmits a further message to computing system containing the phone number an indication that the phone number is authenticated and the code. Computing system generates an anonymized identity from the phone number and or code determines that the task to be performed is unlocking the door and verifies that the anonymized identity of client device is authorized to access the secure facility. Computing system then transmits an instruction to unlock the door to machine control device . Machine control device locates remote machine and forwards the instruction to remote machine . Remote machine then unlocks the door.

At block a computing system may receive a message from a wireless service provider system. The message may contain a service provider based identity of a client device an indication that the service provider based identity has been authenticated by the wireless service provider and a code that the client device obtained from a remote machine proximate to the client device. The code may include a first sub code that identifies the remote machine and a second sub code that identifies the task. The wireless service provider system may be associated with a cellular wireless service provider serving the client device and the service provider based identity may be a cellular phone number of the client device. In some embodiments the wireless service provider system may be a particular wireless service provider sub system or device such as a server a database a billing sub system an authentication authorization and accounting sub system or an application programming interface accessible by way of such a sub system or device. Communication between the wireless service provider system and the computing system may take place over any applicable signaling protocol such as the Session Initiation Protocol SIP DIAMETER etc. In other embodiments the wireless service provider system may be replaced with a system sub system or device of any other type of entity that can authenticate that the message came from the client device.

At block the computing system may generate an anonymized identity of the client device based on the service provider based identity. The anonymized identity may be based on a one way function of the service provider based identity. The anonymized identity may also be based on the code and or one or more of an entity a location or a type of transaction provided by the remote machine. The entity may be for instance a governmental identity a commercial identity a business for profit or not for profit a partnership a person a group and so on. The computing system may be configured to generate different anonymized identities for the client device based on respective codes that the client device receives from respective remote machines.

At block the computing system may verify that a task associated with the code is within the authorized capabilities of the anonymized identity. Further the computing system may have access to a database associating anonymized identities with respective capabilities. Verifying that the task associated with the code is within the authorized capabilities of the anonymized identity may involve looking up the anonymized identity in the database to determine associated capabilities and determining that the associated capabilities indicate that the anonymized identity is permitted to cause the remote machine to perform the task.

At block possibly based at least on the code the computing system may transmit an instruction to the remote machine. The instruction may direct the remote machine to perform the task. Transmitting the instruction to the remote machine may involve transmitting the instruction to a machine control device that controls the remote machine. The instruction may also be based on the anonymized identity.

In some embodiments before receiving the message the computing system may register the client device. The registration may involve determining the anonymized identity of the client device and associating the anonymized identity with other credentials of the client device.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus other implementations of the described subject matter are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

Consequently the present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

