---

title: Adapter devices for enhancing the functionality of other devices
abstract: An adapter may facilitate easy and swift data transfer amongst two previously incompatible electronic devices. Such an adapter may be operative to communicate data with a first of the two electronic devices using a contactless communication link and a first communication protocol and to communicate data with a second of the two electronic devices using a mechanical communication link and/or using a second communication protocol that is different than the first communication protocol, such that data may be transferred between the first and second electronic devices via the adapter. The adapter may be communicatively coupled to both the first electronic device and the second electronic device at the same time. The adapter may rapidly transition between communicating data with the first device and communicating data with the second device (e.g., without altering a physical connection between the adapter and one of the first and second devices during such a transition).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602648&OS=09602648&RS=09602648
owner: KEYSSA SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09602648
owner_city: Campbell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150430
---
The present disclosure relates to adapter devices and more specifically to enhancing functionality of a device with an adapter device.

Electronic devices can be connected together to enable data transfer between the devices. Typically the connection between two devices can be a wired connector or a wireless connection. A wired connector such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connector may typically be point to point and may require mechanical connectors at each device. A wireless connection such as a WiFi or Bluetooth connection can operate in a broadcast mode where one device can communicate simultaneously with several other devices over a radio frequency RF link which may typically be in the range of 700 MHz to 5.8 GHz. Devices containing these connectors and connections are limited to communicating data according to the protocols associated with those connection mechanisms. As a result such devices are not able to communicate data according to alternative protocols that may be available.

Apparatus systems methods and related computer program products for adapter devices that enhance functionality of a device are provided herein.

In some embodiments there is provided an adapter device for use in communicating with a first electronic device and a second electronic device. The adapter device may include an adapter memory component a first connector operative to enable a first communications link with the first electronic device a second connector operative to mechanically couple to the second electronic device to enable a second communications link with the second electronic device and an adapter host subsystem communicatively coupled to each one of the adapter memory component the first connector and the second connector wherein while both the first communications link is enabled and the second connector is mechanically coupled to the second electronic device the adapter host subsystem is operative to switch between enabling a first communications path between the adapter memory component and the first communications link via the first connector and enabling a second communications path between the adapter memory component and the second communications link via the second connector.

In some other embodiments there is provided an adapter device for use in communicating with a first electronic device and a second electronic device. The adapter device may include an adapter memory component a first connector operative to maintain a first communications link with the first electronic device a second connector operative to maintain a second communications link with the second electronic device and an adapter host subsystem. The adapter host subsystem may include a switch module communicatively coupled to the second connector and a hub. The hub may include an upstream port and a plurality of downstream ports. A first portion of the upstream port is communicatively coupled to the first connector and a second portion of the upstream port is communicatively coupled to the switch module.

In some other embodiments there is provided a method for enabling an adapter device to communicate with a first electronic device and a second electronic device where the method is implemented by the adapter device. The method may include establishing a first communications link between a first connector of the adapter device and the first electronic device mechanically coupling a second connector of the adapter device to the second electronic device for enabling a second communications link between the second connector of the adapter device and the second electronic device and while both the first communications link is established and the second connector is mechanically coupled to the second electronic device changing the state of a communications path between the second connector and a memory component of the adapter device.

In some other embodiments for use with any one of a plurality of different user devices each including a first device connector and for use with a modular adapter including a first adapter connector and at least one contactless communication unit there is provided a device specific shell that may include a structure with a configuration amenable to being attached to one of the user devices. The structure includes a module retaining region that includes a first shell connector operable to mate with the first adapter connector. The device specific shell may also include a second shell connector coupled to the structure and operable to mate with the first device connector wherein the first and second shell connectors are electrically coupled.

In some other embodiments for use with any one of a plurality of device specific shells each including a structural configuration designed for a specific user device a modular retaining region and a first shell connector a modular adapter is provided that may include a housing designed to fit in the modular retaining region a first adapter connector coupled to the housing and operable to mate with the first shell connector and at least one contactless communications unit mounted within the housing the at least one contactless communications unit operable to contactlessly communicate data according to any one of a plurality of different protocols wherein the at least one contactless communications unit is instructed to implement a state machine specific to a selected one of the protocols in order to establish a communications link according to selected protocol.

A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the embodiments discussed herein may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the drawings.

Illustrative embodiments are now described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which representative examples are shown. The disclosed adaptive device may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

In the following detailed description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. Those of ordinary skill in the art will realize that these various embodiments are illustrative only and are not intended to be limiting in any way. Other embodiments will readily suggest themselves to such skilled persons having the benefit of this disclosure.

In addition for clarity purposes not all of the routine features of the embodiments described herein are shown or described. One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that in the development of any such actual embodiment numerous embodiment specific decisions may be required to achieve specific design objectives. These design objectives will vary from one embodiment to another and from one developer to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine engineering undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

For example embodiments discussed herein may refer to apparatus systems methods and related computer program products for establishing extremely high frequency EHF contactless communications links using a contactless communications interface. An EHF contactless communication link may serve as an alternative to conventional board to board and device to device connectors. The link may be a low latency protocol transparent communication link that may be capable of supporting a range of data rates such as at least 5 Gb s. The link may be established through a close proximity coupling between devices each of which may include at least one EHF communication unit. Each EHF unit may progress through a series of steps before data can be transferred between the devices. These steps may be controlled by one or more state machines that may be implemented in each EHF communication unit. Some of these state machines or other state machines may be selected based to the interfaces they are implementing. These state machines may progress through state transitions for each EHF unit in accordance with the protocol of the interfaces they are implementing. There may be several embodiments of these state machines including but not limited to interface protocols such as USB 2.0 USB 3.0 USB 3.1 USB 3 2 Auto switchable protocols USB Type C and USB On The Go OTG protocol. Other industry implementations of interfaces such as USB and DisplayPort DP over wired or wireless communication links such as Wireless USB USB over RF links or Wi Fi Direct for DP may require a higher level of intervention from the host processors that may impose additional layering of driver software in the industry standard kernel stack such as iOS Android Windows etc. This can significantly increase the effort required for adoption of such implementations compared to the implementation of those peripheral interfaces using embodiments described herein.

Another difference between using an EHF communication link and conventional wired and wireless links is that the EHF communication link is not constrained by the same electrical and software requirements of conventional wired and wireless links to enable a particular protocol. Thus the EHF communications link is protocol agnostic in that it does not have to abide by the same rules parameters or other characteristics that wired and wireless links must satisfy in order to function properly. By way of example a USB 2.0 wired link requires a particular mechanical interface electrical requirements e.g. resistance values voltages etc. and various protocol specific link layers in order to establish a USB 2.0 protocol link whereas an EHF communications link can be instructed to use the EHF state machine specifically designated for USB 2.0 in order to establish a USB 2.0 protocol link. If it is desired for the EHF communications link to be a USB 3.0 link it can be instructed to use the EHF state machine specifically designed for USB 3.0 without requiring the particular mechanical interface electrical requirements e.g. resistance values voltages etc. and various protocol specific link layers that are typically associated with the USB 3.0 protocol. Thus the USB 2.0 wired link is permanently forced to operate only according to USB 2.0 e.g. because its host system has been hard wired and programmed according to the protocol specific requirements and it includes an electromechanical connector . In the event for example a USB 3.0 wired connector is mated with the USB 2.0 wired connector the protocol link existing between both wired connectors will be forced to resolve to USB 2.0. In contrast to the wired USB 2.0 link if the EHF communications link is used it can load the appropriate state machine to provide a USB 3.0 protocol link.

Yet another difference in implementing industry standard peripheral interfaces such as USB over contactless EHF communication links utilizing the methods described in this document is the fact that the operating power of the system described herein may be significantly lower than that required in conventional implementations.

The EHF communication units may be integrated into various adapter device embodiments described herein that enhance the functionality of user devices and or base devices while simultaneously adhering to any protocol requirements of those devices. Thus although a user device may be limited to using its protocols for transferring data it is provided access to other protocols via the adapter device such that data stored in the adapter device and accessible to the device can be transferred to another device e.g. base device using one of the other protocols. The one or more other protocols may be supported by the EHF communication units which advantageously enable the adapter device to be unencumbered with conventional electromechanical connectors including their physical connection requirements and their electrical connection requirements. The elimination of the encumbrance is further realized by the adapter device s ability to be simultaneously electrically coupled to at least the user device and the base device and support data transfer between the user device and the adapter device between the base device and the adapter device and between the user device and the base device without requiring a user to physically disconnect the adapter device from one device and connect it to another device in order to establish a data transfer link. The adapter device can electronically maintain and manage two or more data transfer links with two simultaneously electrically coupled devices.

The adapter device coupled with its EHF contactless communications unit enables various use cases for transferring data. For example in one embodiment the adapter device may function as a high speed data sharing device that transmits data in the fastest possible manner given the constraints imposed on it by the user device and base device. For example data may be rapidly transferred between the adapter device s local memory and a base device via the contactless interface and the user device can access the adapter device s local memory using its protocol. This arrangement supports usage scenarios where a relatively large amount of data e.g. a movie is transferred between the adapter device and base device in a relatively short amount of time e.g. a few seconds when the user places the adapter device within data transfer proximity of the base device. For example in embodiments where the adapter device is semi permanently coupled to the user device such that the device and adapter user device can be physically handled as one integrated device a user can place the integrated device in close proximity to the base device to effect rapid data transfer. Since the data transfer is contactless the user need not fumble with cables to make a connection or fuss with inserting one mechanical connector into another mechanical connector.

In today s society and ubiquitous computing environment high bandwidth modular and portable electronic devices are being used increasingly. Security and stability of communication between and within these devices is important to their operation. In order to provide improved secure high bandwidth communications the unique capabilities of contactless communication between electronic devices and between sub circuits within each device may be utilized in innovative and useful arrangements.

Such communication may occur between radio frequency communication units and communication at very close distances may be achieved using EHF frequencies typically 30 300 GHz in an EHF communication unit at any suitable transfer data rates such as in a range of 4 Gbits s to 20 Gbits s or any other suitable data rate e.g. at least data rates supported by USB 3.0 or USB 3.1 or USB Type C or USB SuperSpeed or USB SuperSpeed or Apple Lightning or Thunderbolt or any other suitable current or future protocol or standard . An example of an EHF communication unit may be an EHF comm link chip. Throughout this disclosure the terms comm link chip and comm link chip package may be used to refer to EHF antennas that may be embedded in integrated circuit IC chips or packages. Comm link chips may be an example of a communication device which may also be referred to as a contactless communication unit a contactless communications transceiver unit CCXU or EHF XCVR and the like whether or not they provide wireless communication and whether or not they operate in the EHF frequency band.

The acronym EHF may stand for Extremely High Frequency and may refer to a portion of the electromagnetic EM spectrum such as a portion in the range of 30 GHz to 300 GHz gigahertz . The term transceiver may refer to a device such as an IC that may include a transmitter Tx and a receiver Rx so that the integrated circuit may be used to both transmit and receive information data . Generally a transceiver may be operable in a half duplex mode e.g. alternating between transmitting and receiving a full duplex mode e.g. transmitting and receiving simultaneously or configured as either a transmitter or a receiver. A transceiver may include separate integrated circuits for transmit and receive functions. The terms contactless coupled pair and close proximity coupling as used herein may refer to EM rather than electrical e.g. wired contact based connections and transport of signals between entities e.g. devices . As used herein the term contactless may refer to a carrier assisted dielectric coupling system. A connection may be validated by proximity of one device to a second device. Multiple contactless transmitters and receivers may occupy a small space. A contactless link established with EMs may be channelized in contrast with a wireless link which typically may broadcast to several points.

The RF energy output by an EHF transceiver described herein may be designed to adhere to various requirements mandated by one or more governments or their agencies. For example the FCC may promulgate requirements for certification for transmitting data in a RF frequency band.

 Standards and related terms such as Standards based Standards based interfaces Standards based protocols interface protocols and the like may refer to legacy or future interface standards or protocols that may include but are not limited to USB e.g. USB 2.0 USB 3.0 USB 3.1 USB Type C USB 3 2 or USB OTG with SuperSpeed or SuperSpeed transfer modes DP Thunderbolt HDMI SATA SAS PCIe Ethernet SGMII Hypertransport Quickpath I2S GPIO I2C and their extensions or revisions. For example the term interface protocol may refer to the protocol being used by one system to communicate with another system. As a specific example the interface protocol being used by a system may be a USB interface protocol as such the system may communicate according to the rules governing USB communications.

EHF communication systems described herein can selectively implement any one of the USB or other suitable standards by mapping appropriate USB or other protocol signal conditions over an EHF contactless communication link. It is to be understood that while USB may be predominantly referred to herein any other suitable standard or protocol may be used. The EHF contactless communication link may serve as an alternative to conventional board to board and device to device connectors and as such may enable wired connection USB signaling protocols to be used in a non wired environment provided by the EHF contactless communications link. Use of a USB protocol over the EHF communications link can be accomplished by establishing the EHF link between counterpart EHF communication units and then by establishing the appropriate USB protocol or any other suitable protocol over the link. The link may be established by having each EHF unit progress through a series of steps controlled by one or more state machines that may be implemented in each EHF communication unit.

The communication system presented herein is unique in that the communication units may have the flexibility to provide broadband communication characteristics but at the same time consume much less power with a lot less complexity and cost than existing solutions. Maximizing bandwidth usage around a common carrier frequency may require the use of multiple communication units each of which may operate as either a transmitter or a receiver at a certain period of time. Each of the units can operate in either full duplex mode or half duplex mode with the same carrier. The use of the same carrier or substantially similar carrier frequency for different communication units in the same system may require spatial separation of the communication units. In order for the communication units in the system to communicate efficiently and effectively with a partner system they ought to be able to synchronize their operations and or states . The communication units in the same system may communicate control information regarding the status or state using electrical signaling while these same units may communicate with partner communication units e.g. in a different system through EHF signaling. Based on the requirements of a particular system a specific communication unit may be powered up based on a request from a host system and this communication unit may be responsible for initiating link enablement of the communication unit s in the same system and or in the partner system. The communication units may pass through multiple states where the state transitions may partly depend on the state of one or more of the other communication units. This may require synchronization of the states in all communication units. In order to achieve this the control information may pass through the communication units in a closed loop. In addition data from a host system that may be communicated through the communication units may be communicated transparently with little or no intervention from the host system. Control information that may be communicated between the EHF communication units over an EHF link may use similar signaling characteristics as data information that may be communicated between two host systems over the EHF link. For example the control information may be sent over a EHF carrier with a modulation scheme that may be similar to the modulation scheme when data information may be sent between two host systems over the EHF link.

There may be several key advantages to the communication system presented herein. By physically separating communication units in the same system and or by optimizing the connection distance for contactless communication the communication units can operate over the same EHF frequency with minimal interference through spatial separation. The communication units may be simpler in design because many of the constraints from a typical wireless system e.g. using multiple bands of frequencies for communication may have been relaxed or altogether removed. For example due to the close communication distance and minimal interference with neighboring units the units can be designed to communicate with simple modulation of the EHF signal and no additional error detection or correction circuitry. In addition an EHF transmit unit may be physically identical e.g. the same silicon mask set to an EHF receive unit and a single chip may be configured as a transmitter a receiver or may alternately be programmed to be either a transmitter or a receiver. By using a very similar design for all the communication units development and implementation costs may be reduced.

State machine embodiments can enable interface protocols including but not limited to USB 2.0 USB 3.0 USB 3.1 USB Type C and or USB 3 2 Auto switchable protocols to be used in connection with the EHF contactless communication system. Thus although the EHF contactless communication system may provide a non wired near field link the interface protocols may behave in the same manner as a system that uses a wired physical link. This advantageously may eliminate the need to use higher level intervention from host processors that may impose additional layering of driver software in industry standard kernel stacks e.g. iOS Android Windows in order to establish a USB interface. Thus conventional industry implementations which may require the higher level intervention that may use interfaces such as USB and DP over wireless communication links such as Wireless USB e.g. USB over RF links or Wi Fi Direct e.g. for DP may require significant engineering effort in order to adopt such implementations and or may require greater power consumption compared to the implementation of the same peripheral interfaces using embodiments described herein.

For example a contactless communications transmitter unit CCTU for use in establishing a contactless communications link with a first contactless communications receiver unit CCRU that may be associated with a second USB device and for use in communicating with a second CCRU via at least one wired path may be provided. The CCTU can include several pins wherein at least a first pin may be used to communicate with the second receiver unit via a wired path and at least a second pin may be used to communicate with a first USB device a transducer for transmitting EHF contactless signals to the first receiver unit and circuitry. The circuitry can be operative to execute a CCTU state machine that may track a state of the CCTU during the establishment of the contactless communications link wherein the state machine may transition through a plurality of states in response to signals received by the first pin wherein one of the plurality of states may include a capabilities state for determining a data transfer protocol. The circuitry can execute a USB state machine during the capabilities state to enable the first USB device to establish a USB connection with the second USB device via the contactless communication link wherein the USB state machine may transition through a plurality of USB states in response to signals received by the at least a first pin and the at least a second pin. The circuitry can selectively transmit EHF signals using the transducer in response to a state transition in at least one of the CCTU state machine and the USB state machine.

As another example a CCRU for use in establishing a contactless communications link with a first CCTU and for use in communicating with at least a second CCTU via at least one wired path may be provided. The CCRU can include several pins wherein at least a first pin may be used to communicate with the second transmitter unit via a wired path and at least a second pin may be used to communicate with a first USB device a transducer for receiving EHF contactless signals from the first transmitter unit and circuitry. The circuitry can be operative to execute a CCRU state machine that may track the state of the CCRU during the establishment of the contactless communications link wherein the state machine may transition through a plurality of states in response to signals that may be received by the transducer wherein one of the plurality of states may include a capabilities state for determining a data transfer protocol. The circuitry can execute a USB state machine during the capabilities state to establish a USB connection with a second USB device associated with the first CCTU wherein the USB state machine may transition through a plurality of USB states in response to signals that may be received by the transducer. The circuitry can selectively drive a signal on the first pin that may be used to communicate with the second transmitter unit in response to a state transition in at least one of the CCRU state machine and the USB state machine.

The transmitter and receiver units can also resolve which USB mode to be used. For example in one embodiment a method for resolving a USB mode for use by a CCRU may be provided. The method can include receiving a capabilities message from a first CCTU over a contactless communications link wherein the message may include first CCTU USB parameters retrieving CCRU USB parameters from the CCRU comparing the CCTU USB and CCRU USB parameters to resolve which one of a plurality of USB modes the CCRU ought to use and selecting a USB mode based on the resolution.

As another embodiment a method for resolving a USB mode for use by a CCTU may be provided. The method can include receiving a signal from a first CCRU via at least one wired path on at least a first pin wherein the signal may specify one of a first CCRU USB capable parameter and a first CCRU resolved USB parameter transmitting a CCTU USB parameter to a second CCRU over a contactless communications link wherein the transmitted CCTU USB parameter may be based on the received signal from the first CCRU and selecting a first USB mode based on the received signal.

For illustrative clarity devices and will be described as mirror images of one another but it should be understood that the two devices and may be different than each other e.g. as described below with respect to . For example one of the devices may be a laptop computer and the other device may be a mobile telephone or an adapter of a mobile telephone. Some examples of electronic devices which may benefit from the techniques disclosed herein may include cellular telephones or handsets or smart phones computers docks e.g. docking stations laptops tablets or comparable electronic devices to name but a few.

First electronic device may include a host system and a contactless communication unit which may be referred to as an EHF contactless communication unit a smart contactless connector a communication subsystem a smart connector a contactless connector or simply a connector . The unit associated with first device may be generally capable of performing at least one of establishing and managing operation of contactless link with unit of second device monitoring and modifying data passing through unit onto link and or interfacing with and providing application support for host system . These functions of unit with regard to interacting with link the data and host system may be described and elaborated upon and discussed in greater detail hereinbelow or elsewhere in this disclosure .

Unit associated with first device may include some or all of the following elements electrical interface processor and associated memory control circuits measurement circuits one or more transceivers and or one or more transducers . The operation of these various elements may be described and elaborated upon and discussed in greater detail hereinbelow or elsewhere in this disclosure .

Second electronic device may include host system and a contactless communication unit which may be referred to as an EHF contactless communication unit a smart contactless connector a communication subsystem a smart connector a contactless connector or simply a connector . Connector associated with second device may be generally capable of establishing and managing operation of contactless link with unit of first device monitoring and modifying data passing though the unit onto link and or interfacing with and or providing application support for host system . These functions of unit with regard to interacting with link the data and the host system may be described and elaborated upon and discussed in greater detail hereinbelow or elsewhere in this disclosure .

Unit associated with second device may include some or all of the following elements an electrical interface processor and associated memory control circuits measurement circuits one or more transceivers and or one or more transducers . The operation of these various elements may be described and elaborated upon and discussed in greater detail hereinbelow or elsewhere in this disclosure .

Units and may operate without intervention from host processors e.g. processors of host systems and respectively and or may take control of the host systems and respectively or portions thereof. Units and may open activate applications return status power levels connection parameters data types information on devices systems that are connected content information amount and type of data being transferred including device configuration based on connection type link management quota information channel control and the like.

The dashed line rectangles shown e.g. in around units and may simply represent partitioning of functions separating e.g. distinguishing units and from host system and respectively. The antennae shown e.g. symbolically as transducers and outside of the dashed line rectangles may be considered to be within the functional blocks of units and but may be disposed either internal or external to a communications chip constituting the contactless connector e.g. for receiving EHF contactless signals from another antennae transducer e.g. across link . The dashed line rectangles shown e.g. in around units and may also represent non conducting barriers e.g. housings enclosures or the like not shown such as of plastic or acrylic enclosing units and or could also include entire devices and respectively as described hereinabove.

Electrical interfaces and may include communications port s channel s to communicate with any suitable portion s of host systems and respectively. Host systems and may have their own processors and associated circuitry e.g. as described below with respect to but not shown in . As mentioned devices and may be described as mirror images of one another but it should be understood that the two devices and and or the two host systems and may be different than each other. For example one of the devices or host systems may be a laptop computer the other device or host system may be a mobile telephone or an adapter for a mobile telephone. Some examples of electronic devices which may benefit from the techniques disclosed herein may include cellular telephones or handsets or smart phones computers docks e.g. docking stations laptops tablets or comparable electronic devices to name but a few.

Processors and may be embedded microprocessors or microcontrollers or state machines may run management operating systems OSs for the connection and or may have built in authentication encryption engines. Processors and either alone or in combination with other elements presented herein may be operative to manage the communications link to monitor data passing through the units and over the communications link and or to provide application support for a host system or to execute one or more state machines or variations thereof as may become evident from the several functional descriptions set forth herein. In a broader sense units and may be capable of performing one of more of at least one of the various functions described herein.

Memory and may be any suitable memory such as random access memory RAM non volatile RAM NVRAM such as flash memory or the like and may include registers containing configuration status permissions content permissions keys for authentication encryption application s e.g. software and or firmware for use by processor and and the like.

Control circuits and may include any suitable circuitry that may be capable of monitoring the state of the link and or actively appending to or changing data concurrently on the fly as it goes through unit or respectively.

Measurement circuits and may include any suitable circuitry that may be capable of observing e.g. monitoring the connection state status the connection type and or the data being transmitted. Sensors not shown may be included to monitor signal strength ambient environmental conditions and the like. Signal to noise ratio can be used as an indicator of signal quality.

Transceivers and may include any transceivers and associated transducers or antennas and that may be suitable for converting between electrical signals e.g. for the host system and EM signals e.g. for the contactless communications link . Transceivers and may each be a half duplex transceiver that can asynchronously convert a baseband signal into a modulated EHF extremely high frequency carrier at 30 300 GHz or higher such as 60 GHz carrier frequency which may be radiated from an internal or external antenna e.g. as shown schematically or can receive and demodulate the carrier and reproduce the original baseband signal. The EHF carrier may penetrate a wide variety of commonly used non conductive materials e.g. glass plastic etc. .

It should be understood that if only one way communication is required such as from first device to second device transceiver could be replaced by a Tx and transceiver could be replaced by a Rx.

Transmit power and receive sensitivity for transceivers and may be controlled to minimize electromagnetic interference EMI effects and or to simplify FCC certification if appropriate.

Transceivers and may be implemented as IC chips comprising a Tx a Rx and related components. Transceiver chip s may be packaged in a conventional manner such as in ball grid array BGA format. The antenna may be integrated into the package or may be external to the package or may be incorporated onto the chip itself. An exemplary unit may include one two or more transceiver chips. Some features or characteristics of transceivers and may include low latency signal path multi gigabit data rates link detection and or link training. The signals transmitted by transceivers and may be modulated in any suitable manner to convey the data being transferred from one device to the other device some non limiting examples of which are presented herein. Modulation may be OOK on off keying ASK PSK QPSK QAM or other suitable modulation techniques. Signals may be encoded and packetized and transmitted by one transceiver e.g. transceiver and received and unpacketized and decoded by another transceiver e.g. transceiver . Out of band B signaling or other suitable techniques may be used to convey information other than or related to the data being transferred between the two devices.

Transceivers and or individual transmitters and receivers which may be implemented as chips may be factory serialized so that the chips and their transmissions may be tagged e.g. fingerprinted which may enable a later forensic analysis to be performed for digital rights management DRM . For example protected e.g. premium content could be freely e.g. unimpededly transferred from one device to another but the transaction could be traced to the specific devices involved so that the participants in the transaction can be held accountable e.g. billed . Premium protected content may be modified data appended thereto and or can be logged with chip ID user ID or by other means.

Communications link may be a contactless link and the first and second units and may be contactless connectors as described herein. Differences between units and disclosed herein and conventional mechanical connectors may be immediately apparent and may be described herein. The units may be considered to be communication subsystems of a host device. In this regard differences between the contactless connectors and disclosed herein and controllers such as Ethernet Standard controllers may not be immediately apparent in that both may handle data flow between a host system and a communications link. However a distinction between the contactless connectors disclosed herein and exemplary Standards controllers may be that the contactless connectors disclosed herein may both set up the contactless communications link and transfer data from a host system directly onto the contactless communications link without the intermediary for example of mechanical e.g. electrical not RF connectors and a cable. Further distinctions may be made in the way that the contactless connectors disclosed herein may be capable of operating independently and or transparently from the host system without requiring host awareness or interaction.

Data transfer between electronic devices and may be implemented over a contactless RF EM communications link interface which may be handled substantially entirely by the units and of first and second devices and respectively. Signals flowing between units and of devices and may occur electromagnetically over a non electrical e.g. dielectric medium such as an air gap waveguide plastics e.g. polyethylene thermoplastic polymers polyvinylidene difluoride fluoropolymers ABS and other plastics including combinations of these materials. The EHF signal can pass through other dielectric materials such as cardboard. The EHF signal can pass through a series of different dielectric materials and or waveguides.

Due to the high data rate enabled by the EHF contactless communication large data files such as movies audio device images operating systems and the like may be transferred in very short periods of time in contrast with existing technologies such as NFC. As an example a 1 Gigabyte data file may be transferred in as little as 2 seconds. The electromagnetic communication may typically be over an air gap that may be limited to a short range such as 0 5 cm. A dielectric medium such as a dielectric coupler may be used to extend the range of the contactless link between the devices and to several centimeters cm meters or more.

The communications link may include a dielectric medium that may include any suitable materials such as an air gap a waveguide plastics or a combination thereof. Alternatively the communications link may be enabled by a slot antenna in a conductive medium where the slot antenna may direct the contactless connectivity in a desired direction. A device e.g. at least the contactless connector may be substantially fully enclosed by a conductive medium other than at a location where it may be desired to emit and or receive EHF radiation from a partner device e.g. at least the contactless connector thereof which may also be similarly substantially fully enclosed by a conductive medium.

It should be understood that in this and any other embodiments of contactless links discussed herein an overall communications system may be implemented as a combination of contactless and physical links. Furthermore some of the techniques described herein may be applied to transferring data over a physical link. In such a link the transceiver can contactlessly transmit data to a cable that may serve as a physical conduit for the data.

One or both of devices and may have two or more transceivers. Having two or more transceivers may support a feedback loop latency changes full duplex operation and or may simultaneously establish a second communications link e.g. for communicating with the host system . An exemplary data flow may proceed as follows. Data originating from host system or data originating at unit may be provided by unit via its transceiver and transducer onto the communications link . The data may pass through or over communications link . Data received from the communications link by transducer and transceiver of unit may be provided to host system or may remain with unit . Data may flow in the reverse direction from host system via unit or originating at unit onto the contactless link to unit which may pass the data to host system . Although not shown each one of units and may include one or more suitable busses for communicating data and or power between various components and or between various components .

In some embodiments each of EHF communication units and can be the same as EHF communication unit or discussed above. As such EHF communication units and may include transceivers e.g. CCXUs that may be capable of being configured to transmit and or receive EHF signals. For example in one approach units and can be configured to receive EHF signals e.g. as CCRUs and units and can be configured to transmit EHF signals e.g. as CCTUs . Thus in this approach a contactless communications link may exist between EHF communication units and and a contactless communications link may exist between EHF communication units and . As shown units and may work together as a coupled pair of units that may communicate via link and units and may work together as another coupled pair of units that may communicate via link . If one or more additional coupled pairs of units were to be included in system then additional communications links would also exist.

After the units progress through their respective state machines and establish the links and data no longer needs to be communicated across the links the units can enter in a power savings mode state or data transport idle state depending on whether they are being implemented as a transmitter or receiver unit. The power savings state may enable an EHF communication unit to power down selective circuitry after the EHF communication link has been established when there may be no data to be communicated over the link. The transmitter unit may transmit a keep alive signal to the receiver unit to prevent it from timing out and exiting out of its power savings mode. The receiver unit may be periodically turned on to monitor whether the transmitter is sending the keep alive signal. The transmitter and receiver units may transition to a new state e.g. a data transport state when they receive instructions to do so. As a specific example an apparatus can include an EHF transceiver and control circuitry. The control circuitry may be operative to control establishment of an EHF communications link with another apparatus by executing a state machine that may transition from state to state in response to satisfaction of any one of a plurality of conditions establish the EHF communication link with the apparatus to selectively enable one of transmission and reception of data after the EHF communication link with the apparatus may be established monitor an absence of data being communicated over the EHF communication link and enter into a power savings state in response to the monitored absence of data being communicated over the EHF communication link until the state machine transitions to a new state.

Both devices and have the ability to control activation and deactivation of the links existing between the two devices. For example if the links are in a power savings mode and device decides it wishes to transmit data to device device may change a signal state on one of the pins of one of its EHF units to bring it out of sleep and into an active data transport ready state. In response to the change in signal state it may transmit a signal over the contactless communications link to its counterpart EHF unit which may exit out of its power state and enter into an active data transport state. In addition the counterpart EHF unit may inform other circuitry within device that incoming data traffic is about to commence and that any appropriate changes are put into effect so that the data can be handled properly. For example in the context of various embodiments described herein when the counterpart EHF unit is contained in an adapter device that is electrically coupled to a user device the counterpart EHF unit may provide a signal that causes adapter circuitry to turn off an active connection coupling a memory to the user device and activate a connection coupling the memory to the EHF unit.

Two different electronic devices may be equipped with two different data transfer mechanisms and or may be configured to communicate with other devices using two different interface protocols or standards thereby making the two devices incompatible for data communication. For example a first device may be operative to communicate with other devices over a mechanical communications link using a mechanical connector while a second device may be operative to communicate with other devices over a contactless communications link using a contactless connector. Additionally or alternatively a first device may only be compatible with USB 2.0 communication protocols while a second device may support only USB SuperSpeed communication protocols but not legacy USB 2.0 protocols. Therefore in order to enable data transfer between two such electronic devices an adapter can be provided that may be operative to facilitate easy and swift data transfer amongst previously incompatible electronic devices. Such an adapter may be operative to communicate data with a first of the two electronic devices using a first type of communications link and a first communication protocol and to communicate data with a second of the two electronic devices using a second type of communications link that is different than the first type of communications link and or using a second communication protocol that is different than the first communication protocol such that data may be transferred between the first and second electronic devices via the adapter. The adapter may be operative to be communicatively coupled to both the first electronic device and the second electronic device at the same time. Additionally or alternatively the adapter may be operative to rapidly transition between communicating data with the first device and communicating data with the second device e.g. without altering a physical connection between the adapter and one of the first and second devices .

One or more contactless EHF communication units may be provided by the adapter to communicate data according to one or more particular protocols between the adapter and at least one of the two electronic devices. For example a first one of the electronic devices may be a device that may only support cabled transfers and the second one of the electronic devices may be enabled with a contactless EHF communication unit while the adapter may be compatible with both devices and may be used to facilitate data transfer between the first and second devices by using a wired data transfer link between the first device and the adapter and by using a contactless EHF data transfer link between the adapter and the second device. An output may be provided by an EHF communication unit of the adapter that may be leveraged to control a switch of the adapter to dictate what communication path s of the adapter may be active e.g. a data transfer path between the first device and the adapter a data transfer path between the second device and the adapter and or a data transfer path between the first device and the second device via the adapter etc. .

In some embodiments the functionality of the adapter may be built in to or otherwise integrated into the structure or circuitry of one of the electronic devices. In other embodiments the adapter may be provided as a distinct and or standalone device that may be removably coupled to one of the electronic devices e.g. as a removable card or protective sleeve or dongle . Such an adapter may also be configured to provide additional functionality other than data transfer compatibility to at least one of the two electronic devices such as to provide memory and or power and or image capture functionality or the like. For example the adapter may also function as additional storage whether the adapter is built into the first device or removably coupled to the first device. Extra storage may be useful in situations where a user either desires a partitioned storage with different security encryption features and or wants an external removable storage device with or without different security encryption features from that of memory local to the first device. Different security measures that may be provided by such memory of an adapter may be encryption based determinative of whether or not a remote device or network may access the memory determinative of which regions or functions of the adapter may be accessible by one or both devices or any other suitable measures. The adapter may provide security functions such as virus detection or authentication to prevent the passing of unsigned or vulnerable data between two devices. In some embodiments when the adapter includes memory data transferred from a first device to the adapter may be stored in the memory of the adapter until that data may be transferred from the adapter to the second device. The adapter may facilitate communication of message passing between two incompatible devices.

As shown in for example a communications system may include a first electronic device subsystem or first electronic device or user device a second electronic device subsystem or second electronic device or base device and a converter device or compatibility device or adapter device that may be operative to enable transfer of data between user device and base device where devices and may not have compatible standard protocols or transfer mechanisms. System may also include an auxiliary electronic device subsystem or auxiliary electronic device or auxiliary device that may be operative to communicate data with at least one of adapter device and or user device e.g. directly or via adapter device and or base device e.g. directly or via adapter device .

User device may be any suitable device or subsystem that may include one or more of a processor memory a communications component a power supply an input component and or an output component I O component and or a user device connector . User device may also include a bus that may provide one or more wired or wireless communication links or paths for transferring data and or power to from or between various other components of device . User device may also be provided with a housing that may at least partially enclose one or more of the components of device for protection from debris and other degrading forces external to device . In some embodiments one or more components of user device may be combined or omitted. Moreover user device may include other components not combined or included in . For example user device may include any other suitable components or several instances of the components shown in . For the sake of simplicity only one of each of the components of user device is shown in .

Memory may include one or more storage mediums including for example a hard drive flash memory permanent memory such as read only memory ROM semi permanent memory such as RAM any other suitable type of storage component or any combination thereof. Memory may include cache memory which may be one or more different types of memory used for temporarily storing data for electronic device applications. Memory may be fixedly embedded within electronic device or may be incorporated on one or more suitable types of cards that may be repeatedly inserted into and removed from user device e.g. a subscriber identity module SIM card or secure digital SD memory card .

Power supply can include any suitable circuitry for receiving and or generating power and for providing such power to one or more of the other components of user device . For example power supply can be coupled to a power grid e.g. when device is not acting as a portable device or when a battery of the device is being charged at an electrical outlet with power generated by an electrical power plant . As another example power supply can be configured to generate power from a natural source e.g. solar power using solar cells . As another example power supply can include one or more batteries for providing power e.g. when device is acting as a portable device .

One or more input components of I O component may be provided to permit a user to interact or interface with user device . For example such an input component of user device can take a variety of forms including but not limited to a touch pad touch screen one or more buttons e.g. a keyboard mouse microphone camera scanner proximity sensor light detector motion sensor biometric sensor and combinations thereof. Each input component can be configured to provide one or more dedicated control functions for making selections or issuing commands associated with operating user device . One or more output components of I O component may be provided to present information e.g. graphical audible olfactory and or tactile information to a user of user device . For example such an output component of user device may take various forms including but not limited to audio speakers visual displays haptic output components or combinations thereof. It should be noted that one or more input components and one or more output components may sometimes be referred to collectively herein as a single I O component or I O interface such as a touch screen that may receive input information through a user s touch of a display screen and that may also provide visual information to a user via that same display screen. As described below in more detail such user interface capabilities e.g. in accordance with any suitable application e.g. a data synching application available for user device may enable a user to interact with user device in any suitable way for at least partially defining when or what type of data transfer may be enabled between user device and adapter device and or between adapter device and base device e.g. user instructions received at user device may be shared with adapter device for use in dictating data transfer between adapter device and base device .

Processor of user device may include any processing circuitry that may be operative to control the operations and performance of one or more components of user device . For example processor may receive input signals from an input component of I O component and or from any other suitable component of user device e.g. user device connector and or may drive output signals through an output component of I O component and or through any other suitable component of user device e.g. user device connector . As shown in processor may be used to run one or more applications such as a user device application . As one example application may be an operating system application and or a third party application or other specific application e.g. an application associated with adapter device for enabling various features for syncing data between user device and adapter device and or base device . For example processor may load application as a user interface program to determine how instructions or data received via an input component or other component of device may manipulate the way in which information may be stored and or provided to the user or another device via an output component or other suitable component of device . Application may be accessed by processor from any suitable source such as from memory e.g. via bus or from another device e.g. adapter device and or base device or a remote server. For example an application may be a computer program product that may be stored in a tangible computer readable memory such as any suitable non transitory storage drive or any other suitable computer readable medium accessible to user device . Memory may be an example of tangible computer readable media that may be configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments including executable computer code human readable code or the like. As mentioned memory may include any suitable memory such as a floppy disk removable hard disk optical storage media CD ROM DVD bar code semiconductor memories such as flash memory ROM RAM battery backed volatile memory networked storage device and the like. Memory may store and or processor may access any suitable programming and data constructs that may provide at least a portion of the functionality of various embodiments of this disclosure. Processor may include a single processor or multiple processors. For example processor may include at least one general purpose microprocessor a combination of general and special purpose microprocessors instruction set processors graphics processors video processors and or related chips sets and or special purpose microprocessors. Processor also may include on board memory for caching purposes.

Communications component may be provided to allow user device to communicate with one or more other devices or servers or subsystems e.g. one or more subsystems devices of system such as adapter using any suitable communications protocol. For example communications component may support Wi Fi e.g. an 802.11 protocol ZigBee e.g. an 802.15.4 protocol WiDi Ethernet Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy BLE high frequency systems e.g. 900 MHz 2.4 GHz and 5.6 GHz communication systems infrared transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP e.g. any of the protocols used in each of the TCP IP layers Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP BitTorrent file transfer protocol FTP real time transport protocol RTP real time streaming protocol RTSP real time control protocol RTCP Remote Audio Output Protocol RAOP Real Data Transport Protocol RDTP User Datagram Protocol UDP secure shell protocol SSH wireless distribution system WDS bridging any communications protocol that may be used by wireless and cellular telephones and personal e mail devices e.g. Global System for Mobile Communications GSM GSM plus Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA high speed packet access HSPA multi band etc. any communications protocol that may be used by a low power Wireless Personal Area Network 6LoWPAN module USB e.g. USB 2.0 USB 3.0 USB 3.1 USB Type C USB 3 2 or USB OTG with SuperSpeed or SuperSpeed transfer modes DP Apple Thunderbolt or Lightning HDMI SATA SAS PCIe Ethernet SGMII Hypertransport Quickpath I2S GPIO I2C any extensions or revisions thereof any other communications protocol or any combination thereof. Communications component may also include or be electrically coupled e.g. via bus to any suitable user device connector e.g. any suitable wireless antenna or contactless connector or mechanical connector and or electro mechanical connector that can enable user device to be communicatively coupled to another device e.g. adapter device or auxiliary device for transferring data with that other device wirelessly or via a wired connection according to a communication protocol of communications component . Communications component may be any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof that may enable user device to communicate data via user device connector to another device using a particular communications protocol.

User device may also be provided with a housing that may at least partially enclose one or more of the components of device for protection from debris and other degrading forces external to device . In some embodiments one or more of the components may be provided within its own housing e.g. an input component of I O component may be an independent keyboard or mouse within its own housing that may wirelessly or through a wire communicate with processor which may be provided within its own housing .

Base device may be any suitable electronic device subsystem or electronic device that may include one or more of a processor with access to a base device application memory a communications component a power supply an input component and or an output component I O component a base device connector and a supplemental base device connector . Base device may also include a bus that may provide one or more wired or wireless communication links or paths for transferring data and or power to from or between various other components of device . Power supply may include or be coupled e.g. via bus to an inductor as described below. Base device may also be provided with a housing that may at least partially enclose one or more of the components of device for protection from debris and other degrading forces external to device . In some embodiments one or more components of base device may be combined or omitted. Moreover base device may include other components not combined or included in . For example base device may include any other suitable components or several instances of the components shown in . For the sake of simplicity only one of each of the components of base device is shown in . Unless otherwise noted each one of housing processor application memory bus communications component power supply I O component connector and or supplemental connector of base device may be the same as or substantially similar to a respective one of housing processor application memory bus communications component power supply I O component and connector of user device and therefore may not be independently described in greater detail. Similarly auxiliary device may be any suitable electronic device subsystem or electronic device that may include any suitable components such as one or more of a housing processor not shown application not shown memory not shown bus not shown communications component not shown power supply not shown I O component not shown and or auxiliary device connector that unless otherwise noted may be the same as or substantially similar to a respective one of housing processor application memory bus communications component power supply I O component and connector of user device and therefore may not be independently described in greater detail.

Adapter device may be any suitable device or subsystem that may include one or more of a memory e.g. peripheral subsystem an adapter host subsystem a power supply and or one or more adapter connectors including for example a user device adapter connector an auxiliary device adapter connector a base device adapter connector and a supplemental base device adapter connector . Memory subsystem may include at least one peripheral or memory component and at least one security component . Power supply may include at least one battery and or at least one inductor . Adapter host subsystem may include one or more of a switch module a controller an application and or one or more interfaces e.g. electrical interfaces including for example a user device adapter connector interface an auxiliary device adapter connector interface a base device adapter connector interface and a supplemental base device adapter connector interface . Each one of adapter connector interfaces and may include one or more communications port s channel s to communicate with any suitable portion s of respective device adapter connectors and . Adapter device may also include a bus that may provide one or more wired or wireless communication links or paths for transferring data and or power to from or between various other components of device e.g. including amongst the various components of adapter host subsystem not shown for the sake of clarity of . Adapter device may also be provided with a housing that may at least partially enclose one or more of the components of device for protection from debris and other degrading forces external to device . In some embodiments one or more components of adapter device may be combined or omitted. Moreover adapter device may include other components not combined or included in . For example adapter device may include any other suitable components or several instances of the components shown in . For the sake of simplicity only one of each of the components of adapter device is shown in .

Controller of adapter host subsystem of adapter device may include any processing or control circuitry that may be operative to control the operations and performance of one or more components of adapter device . For example controller may receive input signals from any other suitable component of adapter device e.g. from any suitable adapter connector interface or from peripheral subsystem and or may drive output signals through or to any suitable component of adapter device e.g. through any suitable adapter connector interface or to peripheral subsystem . As shown in controller may be used to run one or more applications such as an adapter device application . As one example application may be an operating system application and or a third party application or other specific application e.g. an application associated with user device and or base device for enabling various features for syncing data between adapter device and user device and or base device . For example controller may load application as a program to determine how instructions or data received via a component of device may manipulate the way in which information may be stored on adapter device transmitted from adapter device and or received by adapter device . Application may be accessed by controller from any suitable source such as from a memory of adapter system e.g. from a memory of peripheral subsystem e.g. a memory peripheral component or from a memory local to adapter host subsystem not shown e.g. via bus or from another device e.g. user device and or base device or from a remote server not shown . For example an application may be a computer program product that may be stored in a tangible computer readable memory such as any suitable non transitory storage drive or any other suitable computer readable medium accessible to adapter device . Such memory may be an example of tangible computer readable media that may be configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Like memory mentioned above with respect to application such memory may include any suitable memory such as a floppy disk removable hard disk optical storage media CD ROM DVD bar code semiconductor memories such as flash memory ROM RAM battery backed volatile memory networked storage device and the like. Such memory may store and or controller may access any suitable programming and data constructs that may provide at least a portion of the functionality of various embodiments of this disclosure. Controller may include a single processor or multiple processors. Controller may include on board memory for caching purposes. An adapter device application may include one or more native application programming interfaces APIs for one or more communication protocols that may be utilized by controller to properly receive data transferred to adapter according to a particular protocol and or that may be utilized by controller to properly transmit data from adapter according to a particular protocol. For example controller may leverage a USB 2.0 native API of application for properly receiving data transferred to adapter according to a USB 2.0 communications protocol from user device via user device adapter connector and user device adapter connector interface and or controller may leverage a USB 3.0 native API of application for properly receiving data transferred to adapter according to a USB 3.0 communications protocol from base device via base device adapter connector and base device adapter connector interface . As another example controller may leverage a USB 2.0 native API of application for properly transmitting data from adapter e.g. from peripheral subsystem to user device according to a USB 2.0 communications protocol via user device adapter connector interface and user device adapter connector and or controller may leverage a USB 3.0 native API of application for properly transmitting data from adapter e.g. from peripheral subsystem to base device according to a USB 3.0 communications protocol via base device adapter connector interface and base device adapter connector . As mentioned it is to be understood that an EHF contactless communication unit may be compatible with any standard including its own standard specification or any other specification meaning it may not be limited to transferring between existing standard protocols. Adapter device application may include one or more native application programming interfaces for any such protocol that may be utilized by EHF contactless communication units.

Data received by adapter device e.g. data as communicated from user device and or from base device may be passed by controller e.g. when using an appropriate communications protocol API associated with the communications protocol with which the received data was communicated to peripheral subsystem for any suitable appropriate use by adapter . For example peripheral subsystem may include any suitable peripheral component that may be operative to receive the data passed on by controller for use by that peripheral component. In some embodiments peripheral component may be local adapter device memory at which the data received and passed on by controller may be stored. Additionally or alternatively peripheral component may be any other suitable component such as a camera or media player that may use the data received and passed on by controller e.g. as instructions for operating the camera of the adapter and or media to be played by the media player of the adapter . Additionally or alternatively data transmitted by adapter device e.g. data to be communicated to user device and or to base device may be passed by controller e.g. when using an appropriate communications protocol API associated with the communications protocol with which the data is to be transmitted from peripheral subsystem to user device and or to base device . For example peripheral component may be any suitable component that may be operative to provide the data to be passed on by controller for transmission to user device and or to base device . As mentioned in some embodiments peripheral component may be local adapter device memory at which the data to be passed on by controller to user device and or base device may be stored and from which that data may be provided to controller . Additionally or alternatively peripheral component may be any other suitable component such as a camera or any other suitable sensor or user input component that may generate the data to be passed on by controller e.g. image data captured by the camera and or sensor data captured by any other suitable sensor and or user input data captured by any suitable user input component . As another example peripheral component may be a power supply e.g. power supply to which power may be provided from controller e.g. power as may be received by adapter from user device and or base device and stored on that power supply and or from which stored power may be provided to controller e.g. power for transmission by adapter to user device and or base device .

Peripheral or memory subsystem may also include one or more security components that may be operative to apply any suitable security feature s to data being provided to peripheral or memory component from adapter host subsystem e.g. for secure use of such data by peripheral component as received by adapter host subsystem from user device and or from base device and or that may be operative to apply any suitable security feature s to data being provided from peripheral component to adapter host subsystem e.g. for secure transmission by adapter host subsystem of such data to user device and or to base device . Such security features may include any suitable encryption and or decryption and or encoding and or decoding of such data in order to prevent the data from being used by devices or components that might not be privileged to do so e.g. for providing data security enforcing DRM and the like . In some embodiments security component may enable peripheral component to be isolated or otherwise protected from like components of devices that may be communicatively coupled to adapter device e.g. local adapter device memory peripheral component and data thereon may be isolated from user device memory and or from base device memory as a security measure until appropriate device components may be leveraged to execute security clearance for any data to be transferred between adapter and user device and or between adapter and base device and or between user device and base device via adapter . Security features may be operative to authenticate data itself and or to authenticate a source or destination of data which may increase the security segregation and use of data during data transfers enabled by adapter device . For example security component may be operative to only enable installation of firmware on adapter device that was received from an appropriate source e.g. a manufacturer of adapter device and not an unknown base device in communication with adapter device . Security clearance may be enabled by security component prior to a particular data transfer e.g. to confirm the authenticity of the source or target of the data transfer or may be enabled by security component after a particular data transfer e.g. to analyze recently received data to confirm its authenticity prior to further use of that data .

Although user device and base device may be described above as including certain similar components it should be understood that the two devices and may be different than each other in one or more ways. For example user device may be operative to communicate data and or power with adapter device according to at least one first communications protocol or user device communications protocol and base device may be operative to communicate data and or power with adapter device according to at least one second communications protocol or base device communications protocol where at least one such user device communications protocol may be the same as or different than at least one such base device communications protocol. User device may be operative to communicate data and or power with adapter device according to a user device communications protocol via a user device adapter communications path that may include user device communications component user device connector a user device adapter communications link user device adapter connector user device adapter connector interface and or controller where user device adapter communications link may be established and or managed between user device connector and user device adapter connector . User device connector and user device adapter connector may be a pair of any suitable connectors that may interact to create any suitable user device adapter communications link through which data and or power may be communicated between connector and connector . As just one example user device connector and user device adapter connector may be conventional mechanical connectors that may physically and or mechanically mate with one another to create a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical user device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be a male connector e.g. a USB plug that may physically fit within a corresponding female connector e.g. a USB receptacle or vice versa to create a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical communication channel where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable user device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical user device adapter communications link . As another example user device connector and user device adapter connector may be conventional wireless connectors that may wirelessly communicatively couple with one another to create a wireless user device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be an antenna or transducer that may wirelessly communicatively couple with corresponding connector that may also be an antenna or transducer where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable user device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a wireless user device adapter communications link . As yet another example user device connector and user device adapter connector may be contactless connectors that may contactlessly communicatively couple with one another to create a contactless user device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be an EHF contactless communication unit e.g. unit that may contactlessly communicatively couple with corresponding connector that may also be an EHF contactless communication unit e.g. unit where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable user device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a contactless user device adapter communications link . Although not specifically illustrated as a contactless device adapter communications link user device adapter communications link may be any suitable type of device adapter communications link including a mechanical link a wireless link or a contactless link that may include any suitable number of CCXU link s which may support any suitable user device communications protocol s .

Base device may be operative to communicate data and or power with adapter device according to a base device communications protocol via a base device adapter communications path that may include base device communications component base device connector a base device adapter communications link base device adapter connector base device adapter connector interface and or controller where base device adapter communications link may be established and or managed between base device connector and base device adapter connector . Base device connector and base device adapter connector may be a pair of any suitable connectors that may interact to create any suitable base device adapter communications link through which data and or power may be communicated between connector and connector . As just one example base device connector and base device adapter connector may be conventional mechanical connectors that may physically and or mechanically mate with one another to create a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical base device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be a male connector e.g. a USB plug that may physically fit within a corresponding female connector e.g. a USB receptacle or vice versa to create a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical communication channel where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable base device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical base device adapter communications link . As another example base device connector and base device adapter connector may be conventional wireless connectors that may wirelessly communicatively couple with one another to create a wireless base device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be an antenna or transducer that may wirelessly communicatively couple with corresponding connector that may also be an antenna or transducer where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable base device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a wireless base device adapter communications link . As yet another example base device connector and base device adapter connector may be contactless connectors that may contactlessly communicatively couple with one another to create a contactless base device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be an EHF contactless communication unit e.g. unit that may contactlessly communicatively couple with corresponding connector that may also be an EHF contactless communication unit e.g. unit where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable base device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a contactless base device adapter communications link . For example as specifically shown in base device connector may include a first base device CCXU and a second base device CCXU and base device adapter connector may include a first base device adapter CCXU and a second base device adapter CCXU where CCXU may contactlessly communicatively couple with CCXU over a first portion or path of a contactless base device adapter communications link e.g. CCXU may be operative as a CCTU for transmitting data over a first portion of link to CCXU that may be operative as a CCRU and where CCXU may contactlessly communicatively couple with CCXU over a second portion or path of contactless base device adapter communications link e.g. CCXU may be operative as a CCTU for transmitting data over a second portion of link to CCXU that may be operative as a CCRU . Moreover as shown in in some embodiments base device adapter connector interface may include a first base device adapter CCXU interface and a second base device adapter CCXU interface where first base device adapter CCXU interface may include one or more communications port s channel s to communicate with any suitable portion s of respective first base device adapter CCXU and where second base device adapter CCXU interface may include one or more communications port s channel s to communicate with any suitable portion s of respective second base device adapter CCXU . Although illustrated as a contactless device adapter communications link with two CCXU links base device adapter communications link may include any other suitable number of CCXU links or may be any other suitable type of device adapter communications link including a mechanical link or a wireless link which may support any suitable base device communications protocol s .

Additionally or alternatively base device may be operative to communicate data and or power with adapter device according to a supplemental base device communications protocol via a supplemental base device adapter communications path that may include base device communications component supplemental base device connector a supplemental base device adapter communications link supplemental base device adapter connector supplemental base device adapter connector interface and or controller where supplemental base device adapter communications link may be established and or managed between supplemental base device connector and supplemental base device adapter connector . Supplemental base device connector and supplemental base device adapter connector may be a pair of any suitable connectors that may interact to create any suitable supplemental base device adapter communications link through which data and or power may be communicated between connector and connector . As just one example supplemental base device connector and supplemental base device adapter connector may be conventional mechanical connectors that may physically and or mechanically mate with one another to create a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical supplemental base device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be a male connector e.g. a USB plug that may physically fit within a corresponding female connector e.g. a USB receptacle or vice versa to create a physical communication channel where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable supplemental base device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical supplemental base device adapter communications link . As another example supplemental base device connector and supplemental base device adapter connector may be conventional wireless connectors that may wirelessly communicatively couple with one another to create a wireless supplemental base device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be an antenna or transducer that may wirelessly communicatively couple with corresponding connector that may also be an antenna or transducer where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable supplemental base device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a wireless supplemental base device adapter communications link . As yet another example supplemental base device connector and supplemental base device adapter connector may be contactless connectors that may contactlessly communicatively couple with one another to create a contactless supplemental base device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be an EHF contactless communication unit e.g. unit that may contactlessly communicatively couple with corresponding connector that may also be an EHF contactless communication unit e.g. unit where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable supplemental base device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a contactless supplemental base device adapter communications link . For example as specifically shown in supplemental base device connector may include a first supplemental base device CCXU and a second supplemental base device CCXU and supplemental base device adapter connector may include a first supplemental base device adapter CCXU and a second supplemental base device adapter CCXU where CCXU may contactlessly communicatively couple with CCXU over a first portion or path of a contactless supplemental base device adapter communications link e.g. CCXU may be operative as a CCTU for transmitting data over a first portion of link to CCXU that may be operative as a CCRU and where CCXU may contactlessly communicatively couple with CCXU over a second portion or path of contactless supplemental base device adapter communications link e.g. CCXU may be operative as a CCTU for transmitting data over a second portion of link to CCXU that may be operative as a CCRU . Moreover as shown in in some embodiments supplemental base device adapter connector interface may include a first supplemental base device adapter CCXU interface and a second supplemental base device adapter CCXU interface where first supplemental base device adapter CCXU interface may include one or more communications port s channel s to communicate with any suitable portion s of respective first supplemental base device adapter CCXU and where second supplemental base device adapter CCXU interface may include one or more communications port s channel s to communicate with any suitable portion s of respective second supplemental base device adapter CCXU . Although illustrated as a contactless device adapter communications link with two CCXU links supplemental base device adapter communications link may include any other suitable number of CCXU links or may be any other suitable type of device adapter communications link including a mechanical link or a wireless link which may support any suitable supplemental base device communications protocol s .

Additionally or alternatively auxiliary device may be operative to communicate data and or power with adapter device according to an auxiliary device communications protocol via an auxiliary device adapter communications path that may include an auxiliary device communications component not shown auxiliary device connector an auxiliary device adapter communications link auxiliary device adapter connector auxiliary device adapter connector interface and or controller where auxiliary device adapter communications link may be established and or managed between auxiliary device connector and auxiliary device adapter connector . Auxiliary device connector and auxiliary device adapter connector may be a pair of any suitable connectors that may interact to create any suitable auxiliary device adapter communications link through which data and or power may be communicated between connector and connector according to any suitable auxiliary device communications protocol. As just one example auxiliary device connector and auxiliary device adapter connector may be conventional mechanical connectors that may physically and or mechanically mate with one another to create a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical auxiliary device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be a male connector e.g. a USB plug that may physically fit within a corresponding female connector e.g. a USB receptacle or vice versa to create a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical communication channel where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable auxiliary device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a physical and or mechanical and or electro mechanical auxiliary device adapter communications link . As another example auxiliary device connector and auxiliary device adapter connector may be conventional wireless connectors that may wirelessly communicatively couple with one another to create a wireless auxiliary device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be an antenna or transducer that may wirelessly communicatively couple with corresponding connector that may also be an antenna or transducer where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable auxiliary device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a wireless auxiliary device adapter communications link . As yet another example auxiliary device connector and user device adapter connector may be contactless connectors that may contactlessly communicatively couple with one another to create a contactless auxiliary device adapter communications link e.g. connector may be an EHF contactless communication unit e.g. unit that may contactlessly communicatively couple with corresponding connector that may also be an EHF contactless communication unit e.g. unit where data and or power may be communicated between connectors and using any suitable auxiliary device communications protocol that may be supported or enabled by such a contactless auxiliary device adapter communications link . Although not specifically illustrated as a contactless device adapter communications link auxiliary device adapter communications link may be any suitable type of device adapter communications link including a mechanical link a wireless link or a contactless link that may include any suitable number of CCXU link s which may support any suitable auxiliary device communications protocol s .

While only a single user device adapter communications link may be shown for communicatively coupling user device and adapter it is to be understood that any other suitable number of user device adapter communications links may be provided for communicatively coupling user device and adapter each of which may be any suitable type of user device adapter communications link that may be the same as or different than existing user device adapter communications link and or each of which may support or enable any suitable user device communications protocol s that may be the same as or different than the user device communications protocol s supported or enabled by existing user device adapter communications link . Additionally or alternatively while only a single auxiliary device adapter communications link may be shown for communicatively coupling auxiliary device and adapter it is to be understood that any other suitable number of auxiliary device adapter communications links may be provided for communicatively coupling auxiliary device and adapter each of which may be any suitable type of auxiliary device adapter communications link that may be the same as or different than existing auxiliary device adapter communications link and or each of which may support or enable any suitable auxiliary device communications protocol s that may be the same as or different than the auxiliary device communications protocol s supported or enabled by existing auxiliary device adapter communications link . Additionally or alternatively while two communications links e.g. base device adapter communications link and supplemental base device adapter communications link may be shown for communicatively coupling base device and adapter it is to be understood that any other suitable number of communications links may be provided for communicatively coupling base device and adapter each of which may be any suitable type of communications link that may be the same as or different than either or both of communications links and and or each of which may support or enable any suitable base device communications protocol s that may be the same as or different than the base device communications protocol s supported or enabled by either or both of communications links and . It is also to be understood that any one or more of communications links and which may be of any suitable type e.g. mechanical wireless contactless etc. may enable or support only one device communications protocol or a number of different device communications protocols. A device adapter communication link of a first type e.g. a mechanical auxiliary device adapter communications link may support at least one device communications protocol e.g. USB 3.0 that may also be supported by a device adapter communication link of a second type e.g. a contactless base device adapter communications link that may be different than the first type. Additionally or alternatively a first device adapter communications link of a particular type e.g. contactless mechanical etc. may be configured in system to support at least one device communications protocol e.g. DisplayPort protocol that may not be supported by a second device adapter communications link of that same particular type e.g. despite each one of base device adapter communications link and supplemental base device adapter communications link being provided as a contactless type of communications link system may be configured such that supplemental base device adapter communications link supports or otherwise uses a DisplayPort protocol and such that base device adapter communications link supports or otherwise uses another protocol that is not a DisplayPort protocol . Additionally or alternatively a first device adapter communication link of any suitable type e.g. a mechanical or wireless device adapter communications link may be configured in system to support at least one communications protocol e.g. USB 2.0 that may not be supported by a second device adapter communication link of any suitable type e.g. a contactless base device adapter communications link where that second device adapter communication link may be configured in system not to support that communications protocol e.g. USB 2.0 but another communications protocol e.g. USB SuperSpeed .

Power may be communicated over any suitable device adapter communications link with or without data and such power may be utilized by a destination device in any suitable manner. For example power may be received by adapter device over any suitable device adapter communications link e.g. power may be received at connector over link from power supply of user device and may then be provided to battery of power supply and or vice versa from power supply to power supply power may be received at connector over link from a power supply of auxiliary device and may then be provided to battery of power supply and or vice versa from power supply to the auxiliary device power supply and or power may be received at inductor of power supply over a wireless power link from power supply of base device e.g. via inductor and may then be provided to battery of power supply and or vice versa from power supply to power supply . Adapter device may be operative to utilize power available to power supply e.g. as stored in battery or otherwise to power any suitable components of system including components of user device components of base device components of auxiliary device and or components of adapter device itself.

Based on the number of device adapter communications links available to adapter device based on the type s of such device adapter communications links based on the device communications protocol s supported by such device adapter communications links and or based on the data and or power available to be communicated via such device adapter communications links e.g. to and or from adapter device adapter device may be operative to automatically switch the data communication status e.g. between disabled enabled idle active inactive attentive off etc. of one or more communication paths provided by system e.g. not only in response to the creation or the termination of a device adapter communications link available to adapter device but even when the device adapter communications links available to adapter device remain the same . Such communication paths provided by system may include a user device adapter communication path between user device and adapter device e.g. host subsystem or peripheral component via link an auxiliary device adapter communication path between auxiliary device and adapter device e.g. host subsystem or peripheral component via link a user device auxiliary device adapter communication path between user device and auxiliary device e.g. through adapter host subsystem via links and a base device adapter communication path between base device and adapter device e.g. host subsystem or peripheral component via link a user device base device adapter communication path between user device and base device e.g. through adapter host subsystem via links and a supplemental base device adapter communication path between base device and adapter device e.g. host subsystem or peripheral component via link a user device supplemental base device adapter communication path between user device and base device e.g. through adapter host subsystem via links and and or a base device auxiliary device adapter communication path between base device and auxiliary device e.g. through adapter host subsystem via links and . In some embodiments adapter device may be operative to actively communicate data through two or more of the communication paths provided by system simultaneously or substantially simultaneously or concurrently. Adapter device may be operative to automatically switch the data communication status of one or more communication paths provided by system e.g. from disabled inactive idle or off to enabled active or attentive or vice versa . Such a switch may occur even when the device adapter communications links available to adapter device remain unchanged e.g. a user device adapter communication path between user device and peripheral component via link may be switched between enabled and disabled despite link being maintained and despite link being maintained . Adapter device may be operative to switch the data communication status of one or more communication paths provided by system in response to an event that does not include a new device adapter communications link being made available to adapter device e.g. when a mechanical device adapter communications link is created due to physical insertion of a plug connector into a receptacle connector . Additionally or alternatively adapter device may be operative to switch the data communication status of one or more communication paths provided by system in response to an event that does not include an existing device adapter communications link available to adapter device being terminated e.g. when a mechanical device adapter communications link is terminated due to physical removal of a plug connector from a receptacle connector . Adapter host subsystem may be provided in any suitable way such that switch module may be operative to receive any suitable control information e.g. status information including signal s or lack thereof from any suitable source e.g. from one or more suitable adapter connector interfaces and or from controller and or from peripheral subsystem and to automatically adjust at least one connection between two or more data paths of adapter host subsystem based on such received control information.

A hub which may expand a single communication port into several ports for enabling connection of a data host to multiple components may be provided by adapter host subsystem for enabling certain functionality of adapter device . A particular embodiment of an adapter host subsystem of adapter device of system of may include a hub that may be operative to enable certain features of this disclosure. For example as shown in adapter device of system may include a particular adapter host subsystem with a hub which may be a particular embodiment of subsystem of . As shown adapter host subsystem may include user device adapter connector interface for communication with user device adapter connector auxiliary device adapter connector interface for communication with auxiliary device adapter connector base device adapter connector interface for communication with base device adapter connector supplemental base device adapter connector interface for communication with supplemental base device adapter connector controller running application switch module and bus that may provide one or more wired or wireless communication links or paths for transferring data and or power to from or between various components of device e.g. including peripheral subsystem and power supply as well as amongst the various components of adapter host subsystem . Moreover as shown adapter host subsystem may include hub which may be any suitable I O controller hub that may be compatible with any suitable communication protocol s . In a particular specific embodiment hub may be any suitable USB compliant hub such as a USB 3.0 compliant hub which may be similar to or share certain characteristics of USB Hub TUSB8040 made available by Texas Instruments. In such embodiments as shown hub may include a Vdetect module a first sub hub and a second sub hub . First sub hub may be operative to support one or more first communication protocols and second sub hub may be operative to support one or more second communication protocols that may be the same as or different than the first communication protocol s of first sub hub . In some particular embodiments the maximum capability e.g. data transfer speed of the first communication protocol s of first sub hub may be less than the maximum capability e.g. data transfer speed of the second communication protocol s of second sub hub . For example when hub may be a USB 3.0 compliant hub first sub hub may be a USB 2.0 compliant sub hub e.g. via backward compliance of USB 3.0 while second sub hub may be a USB SuperSpeed compliant sub hub e.g. via a SuperSpeed transfer mode of USB 3.0 that can transfer data at 5 Gbit s which may be more than ten times faster than the USB 2.0 standard although it is to be understood that any other suitable combination of sub hubs with any suitable respective capabilities may be provided by hub .

First sub hub may include an upstream port and at least one downstream port while second sub hub may include an upstream port and at least one downstream port . Following the example where hub may be a USB 3.0 compliant hub where first sub hub may be a USB 2.0 compliant sub hub and where second sub hub may be a USB SuperSpeed compliant hub the USB 2.0 compliant upstream port of first sub hub e.g. positive and negative USB high speed 2.0 compliant differential transceiver pins and the USB SuperSpeed compliant upstream port of second sub hub e.g. positive and negative USB SuperSpeed compliant differential pairs of transmitter receiver pins may collectively provide an upstream port for hub while the USB 2.0 compliant downstream port s of first sub hub e.g. a number of sets of positive and negative USB high speed 2.0 compliant differential transceiver pins and the USB SuperSpeed compliant downstream port s of second sub hub e.g. a number of sets of positive and negative USB SuperSpeed compliant differential pairs of transmitter receiver pins may collectively provide the downstream ports for hub . In such embodiments controller may be any suitable controller such as a USB 3.0 flash memory controller e.g. a USB memory IC or USB memory interface . Controller may be a dedicated direct memory access DMA controller that may be utilized for moving data between adapter memory and memory of user device and or memory of base device at the fastest possible rate. A flash controller may be configured to operate like a DMA controller.

In some embodiments rather than coupling each pin or even most pins of the upstream port of hub e.g. the pins of both upstream port and upstream port to multiple device adapter connectors of adapter device e.g. to user device adapter connector via user device adapter connector interface and to base device adapter connector via base device adapter connector interface adapter host subsystem may be configured such that only a certain first portion of the pins of the upstream port of hub e.g. only the pins of upstream port of first sub hub may be coupled to a first device adapter connector of adapter device e.g. to user device adapter connector via user device adapter connector interface e.g. via switch module and such that that only a certain second portion of the pins of the upstream port of hub e.g. only the pins of upstream port of second sub hub may be coupled to a second device adapter connector of adapter device e.g. to base device adapter connector via base device adapter connector interface e.g. directly .

Such a configuration may be enabled for example when a particular device adapter connector of adapter device need not support a particular communication protocol that is only supported by first sub hub but not supported by second sub hub and or when a particular device adapter connector of adapter device need only support a particular communication protocol that is only supported by second sub hub but not supported by first sub hub or vice versa . For example such a configuration may be enabled when base device adapter connector of adapter device need not support a particular communication protocol e.g. USB 2.0 that is only supported by first sub hub but not supported by second sub hub and or when base device adapter connector of adapter device need only support a particular communication protocol e.g. USB SuperSpeed that is only supported by second sub hub but not supported by first sub hub or vice versa . Such a situation may occur when base device adapter connector of adapter device is configured to establish and or manage and or otherwise communicate via a contactless base device adapter communications link as such a contactless device adapter communications link may enable data communication at suitable data rates e.g. at least data rates supported by USB 3.0 or USB 3.1 or USB Type C or USB SuperSpeed or USB SuperSpeed or Apple Lightning or Thunderbolt or any other suitable current or future protocol or standard whereby adapter device may be configured under the assumption or knowledge that such a contactless base device adapter communications link of base device adapter connector may not need not support a particular e.g. inferior or slower communication protocol e.g. USB 2.0 that is only supported by first sub hub but not supported by second sub hub . That is adapter host subsystem may be configured under the assumption or knowledge that one some or all contactless device adapter connectors e.g. base device adapter connector and or supplemental base device adapter connector of adapter device may not need to support an inferior communication protocol e.g. USB 2.0 protocol that is only supported by first sub hub such that the portion of the upstream port of hub provided by upstream port of first sub hub may be communicatively coupled to user device adapter connector interface for use by user device adapter connector and link with user device without the need to also enable communicative coupling of that upstream port of first sub hub to base device adapter connector interface for use by base device adapter connector and link with base device .

Therefore adapter host subsystem may be configured to communicatively couple base device adapter connector interface and thus base device to the upstream port of hub e.g. to upstream port of second sub hub always or at least during a portion of the time that user device adapter connector interface and thus user device may be communicatively coupled to the upstream port of hub e.g. to upstream port of first sub hub which may thereby enable rapid and or automatic and or user transparent switching of active data communication from a first communication path between hub and user device to a second communication path between hub and base device and or which may enable simultaneous active data communication along both a first communication path between hub and user device and a second communication path between hub and base device . As also shown a communication path may extend between a downstream port and switch a communication path may extend between a downstream port and controller a communication path may extend between a downstream port and controller and a communication path may be enabled by a transaction translator T.T. component to extend between upstream port and the downstream port . In some embodiments hub may be operative to convert data from a first communications protocol to a second communications protocol e.g. from USB 2.0 to USB SuperSpeed or vice versa such as without relying on such functionality of controller . In some particular embodiments transaction translator component may be operative to do such a conversion for enabling compatible data communication between upstream port e.g. with USB SuperSpeed protocol and the downstream port with USB 2.0 protocol .

Switch module of adapter host subsystem may be configured to adjust what communication path s of adapter device may be enabled using any suitable control instructions. For example switch module may include any suitable switches e.g. switch and or switch which may be multiplexers or any other suitable switching components that may be intercoupled with various components of adapter host subsystem in any suitable manner for adjusting such communication path enablement. As shown an input e.g. on the left hand side of a switch may be coupled to a communication path that may extend between that input of switch and user device adapter connector interface while a first output e.g. on the upper right hand side of switch may be coupled to a communication path that may extend between that first output of switch and an input e.g. on the left hand side of switch as well as to a communication path that may extend between that first output of switch and supplemental base device adapter connector interface while a second output e.g. on the lower right hand side of switch may be coupled to a communication path that may extend between that second output of switch and auxiliary device adapter connector interface while a control input e.g. on the bottom side of switch may be coupled to a communication path that may extend between that control input of switch and auxiliary device adapter connector interface while a first output e.g. on the upper right hand side of switch may be coupled to a communication path that may extend between that first output of switch and upstream port of first sub hub of hub while a second output e.g. on the lower right hand side of switch may be coupled to a communication path that may extend between that second output of switch and a downstream port of first sub hub of hub and while a control input e.g. on the top side of switch may be coupled to a communication path that may extend between that control input of switch and any suitable control signal source that may be related to base device adapter connector interface e.g. a source operative to receive one or more particular types of signals or instructions e.g. a link detect output from base device via link . Such a configuration may enable the following operation 

In other embodiments adapter host subsystem of may not include a hub but may rather include controller intercoupled with various interfaces and switch module for operating adapter device . For example in such embodiments controller may be operative to control switch module to either communicatively couple interface and base device to memory subsystem or to communicatively couple interface and user device to memory subsystem e.g. based on any suitable control data such as that described above with respect to the different control inputs for use at switch . When such a controller may be operative to communicatively couple interface and base device to memory subsystem interface and interface may be able to be communicatively coupled such that user device and auxiliary device may communicate. Alternatively in other embodiments adapter host subsystem of may include a PCI Express hub e.g. rather than a USB hub intercoupled with controller and various interfaces and switch module for operating adapter device . In such embodiments the PCI Express hub may be operative to simultaneously enable a first communications path between interface base device and memory subsystem via both the PCI Express hub and controller at the same time as a second communications path between interface base device and interface user device via the PCI Express hub but not via controller e.g. such that base device may be interpreted by base device using PCI Express as a peripheral component like memory component . A PCI hub may be utilized to connect user device to base device similarly to hub but a communicative coupling between connector and an appropriate downstream port may be switchable between connector and a PCIe USB controller.

The various devices of system may be implemented in various configurations. For example in some embodiments user device may be a generally mobile device such as a cellular telephone e.g. a smart phone like the iPhone by Apple Inc. that may be regularly communicatively coupled to adapter device or that may include adapter device permanently integrated as a portion of that mobile device. For example in some embodiments as shown in adapter device may be provided as a protective sleeve or outer cover for user device where adapter device housing may be provided as a top adapter device housing portion and a bottom adapter device housing portion that may be joined about user device e.g. by coupling housing portions and in the direction of arrows C of system of e.g. via portions of bus to provide the unitary adapter device housing of . As shown user device adapter connector may be a physical male connector that may be mated with a physical female user device connector e.g. a mechanical USB supporting connector e.g. Apple Lightning connector or microUSB connector that may often be found on such mobile devices . At least a transducer antenna portion of each one of CCXUs and of base device adapter connector and supplemental base device adapter connector may be functionally positioned at any suitable position along any suitable exterior surface or within any suitable wall of adapter device housing . For example as shown CCXUs and may each be provided along a left side wall of housing . In other embodiments a CCXU may be positioned along a bottom wall of housing that may be adjacent e.g. perpendicular to the left side wall along which CCXUs and may be provided such that paths of a link of CCXUs and may be formed at an angle e.g. at a 90 angle while an alternate link of CCXUs and may be formed along a single substantially planar wall e.g. when user device with adapter device may be positioned within a cradle or dock base device as shown in . Different orientations of CCXU sets of adapter device at one or more various walls of housing may enable establishment of different communication links with different base devices with different mechanical structures and different CCXU orientations may enable data transfer using different communication protocols for different base device connectors and the like. As just one example when both adapter device housing and base device housing are at least partially plastic such plastic housings may act as waveguides for link and or link . Depending on the configuration of CCXUs of adapter device the waveguides may be positioned to allow adapter device and base device to communicate in different orientations with respect to one another. For example adapter device may be configured as a sleeve around user device so that that adapter device may wrap around user device . The waveguides may wrap around the sides and base of user device where there may be CCXUs that may allow for contactless communication with base device . Having waveguides wrapped around the side and the base of adapter device may allow both side and top bottom firing from the contactless communication units such that data transfer between adapter device and base device may occur as long as the CCXUs of adapter device are generally in line with the CCXUs of base device .

Base device may be operative to be temporarily coupled to adapter device when adapter device about user device may be functionally positioned with respect to base device such that CCXUs or CCXUs and or CCXUs may be functionally aligned with CCXUs or CCXUs and or CCXUs for forming links or links and or links between adapter device and base device . For example base device may be a cradle or kiosk or any other suitable device e.g. a generally stationary device that may be utilized for easily positioning adapter device adjacent thereto for enabling one or more of links e.g. in a docking position of . As also shown in system of and or system of auxiliary device may include a cable with auxiliary connector as a physical male connector e.g. a mechanical USB supporting connector e.g. Apple Lightning connector or microUSB connector that may often be found on such mobile devices that may be mated with a physical female auxiliary device adapter connector of adapter device for enabling auxiliary device e.g. other components that may be coupled to connector of auxiliary device to be communicatively coupled to adapter device via link which may even be enabled when adapter device is functionally positioned with respect to base device e.g. as shown by system of .

Therefore adapter device may be substantially continuously worn by user device e.g. as a protective cover such that link may be substantially continuously available between user device connector and user device adapter connector to enable a communication path between user device and adapter device whenever needed while adapter device may be intermittently positioned at or on or adjacent to base device when desired by a user of user device such that link and or link may be intermittently available between base device adapter connectors and base device connectors to intermittently enable communication path s between adapter device and base device . However when adapter device is functionally positioned relative to base device for enabling communication path s between adapter device and base device data may be communicated along such a path for certain durations e.g. when it is determined e.g. by base device application and or adapter device application that synchronization data ought to be communicated for syncing base device memory and adapter memory while data may or may not be communicated along such a path for certain other durations e.g. when it is determined e.g. by base device application and or adapter device application that synchronization data need not be communicated for any further syncing of base device memory and adapter memory such that active communication of data between user device and adapter device may be enabled as described above with respect to e.g. when it is determined e.g. by user device application and or adapter device application that synchronization data ought to be communicated for any further syncing of user device memory and adapter memory . Therefore due to adapter device substantially continuously communicatively coupled to user device e.g. as a protective cover which may provide additional memory for user device during most use cases of device such that link may be substantially continuously available data may be synced between user device and adapter device at any suitable time whether or not adapter device is docked to base device while adapter device may be synced with base device only during certain periods of time when adapter device is docked to base device and link is available. Due to link being operative to support a communication protocol that may be slower than a communication protocol that may be supported by link e.g. USB 2.0 versus USB SuperSpeed the substantially continuous availability of link may enable such slower communication between user device and adapter device to occur at any suitable time e.g. in the background while a user may utilize user device for any suitable purpose while the intermittent availability of link may lend itself to the benefit of the faster communication between adapter device and base device at such intermittent times. Therefore rapid synching between memory of base device and memory of user device is possible without requiring to do so directly between memories and but instead via adapter memory .

In other embodiments as shown in for example adapter device may be provided as a removable memory card e.g. where adapter housing may have a form factor similar to an SD card or similar removable card for insertion into or other suitable coupling with user electronic device which may be a camera or other suitable device that may benefit from additional memory. As shown user device adapter connector may be a physical male connector that may be mated with a physical female connector of user device e.g. in the direction of arrow C of system of for generating link of system of . Base device may be any suitable device that may be intermittently functionally positioned with respect to adapter device when and or not when link may exist between devices and such that link between CCXUs and may be formed.

In other embodiments adapter device may be physically integrated into user device e.g. such that user device adapter connector interface may be permanently communicatively coupled to a portion of user device e.g. user device bus whereby user device adapter connector may not be utilized or even provided by such an adapter device . In such embodiments adapter device may dynamically change between protocols and specifications as needed. An example may be USB on the go OTG where user device may have a built in adapter device with CCXUs and while base device may have CCXUs and that are compatible with USB OTG. The CCXUs of user device and base device may facilitate data transfer between the user device and base device. In such embodiments where adapter device may be integrated into user device controller may be provided as a portion of user device processor e.g. on a System on Chip SOC .

As mentioned adapter device may include storage functionalities with different encryption rules. The rules for transferring data out of memory component of adapter device may be the same or different from the rules for transferring data into memory component . For example data from user device may be transferred e.g. via USB 2.0 protocol to controller and memory component via security component with particular encryption rules. Whether the data may be transferred from user device to base device may depend on the encryption rules when attempting to transfer data from memory component to base device . Such encryption rules may include factors such as which devices users accounts etc. are involved in the data transfer s . In some cases user device data may be transferred from user device to adapter device and to base device and base device data may be transferred from base device to adapter device however such base device data may not be transferred from adapter device to user device . When adapter device is separate from user device memory component may be separate from user device memory and from base device memory . In examples where adapter device is built in to user device memory component may be separate or may be a partition from user device memory . In the example where adapter is built in to user device it may be that data from the general user device memory of user device may be freely transferred to adapter memory and to base device . However storage in the partition with encryption may only be transferred to specific devices and not others. In another example a distinct adapter device may not be required if both user device and base device have compatible contactless EHF communication units. In such an example user device memory and a first integrated adapter memory on user device and or base device memory and a second integrated adapter memory on base device may be partitioned in the respective devices where the partitions may have different encryption rules or there may simply be separate storage components where the different storage components may have different storage rules. In some embodiments adapter memory may include at least a first portion that may be accessible by user device a second portion that may be accessible by base device and a third portion that may be accessible by adapter host subsystem . In all the above examples a user may determine which storage component or partition the data should be transferred to or from.

When user device includes an integrated adapter device memory of that adapter device may be a partitioned portion of user device memory or may be a distinctly separate memory from user device memory e.g. the host memory of that user device and similarly when base device includes an integrated adapter device memory of that adapter device may be a partitioned portion of base device memory or may be a distinctly separate memory from base device memory e.g. the host memory of that base device . Additionally or alternatively in such embodiments controller of the adapter device integrated into each one of the user device and the base device may be a dedicated DMA controller that may be utilized for moving data between the adapter memory of user device and the adapted memory of base device e.g. flash storage to flash storage at the fastest possible rate e.g. via CCXUs of the user device s integrated adapter device and respective CCXUs of the base device s integrated adapter device where such an adapter controller can exist in several forms on its respective user or base device such as a dedicated silicon chip. When a user device with an integrated adapter is communicatively coupled via one or more contactless links with a base device with an integrated adapter the two devices may automatically perform a prescribed transfer of data across the link. Immediately prior to the transfer the integrated adapters may isolate their respective memory components from their respective host memory as a security measure e.g. the adapter memory component of the user device may be isolated from the user device memory and the adapter memory component of the base device may be isolated from the base device memory . That isolation may be an essential and key differentiator of this architecture as it may enable data to be quarantined from each host memory device such that each host device e.g. user device and base device can decide post transaction what to do with the new data on its respective adapter memory component. The two host devices that are sharing data from their respective adapter memory components may not be directly coupled to each other e.g. from user device memory to base device memory . Instead the integrated adapter memory components act as a firewall to prevent one host device from hijacking the other.

Therefore a method of communication may be provided that uses integrated adapter memory components e.g. memory component as the transmission medium rather than a wire cable connection between user device memory and base device memory . The type of such data transfers can be layered for particular use cases such as the following 1 gesture only which can be used to pull e.g. only pull data into user device with the only action being to simply position base device adapter connector in a functional relationship with base device connector for establishing link while no interaction with user device e.g. a user interface or any component thereof may be required e.g. the user interface of the user device and the user interface of the base device may be off and or locked and the transfer may still occur which may enable anyone to gather data e.g. to enable any suitable localized data push use case such as promotional data e.g. coupons trailers informational data e.g. maps guides personal data e.g. media content DVR content cameras and DRM data e.g. download movies videos and unlock via cloud payment 2 moderated gesture which can be used by interacting with software e.g. via a user interface of user device enabled by a user device application on one device such that the transfer can be moderated to enable push and or pull e.g. once set up the transactions can then occur with only a gesture e.g. simply position base device adapter connector in a functional relationship with base device connector for establishing link so as to enable various use cases such as sharing media consecutively with several people enabling a fixed purchasing credit and handing user device to a child to pick out a movie to download from a kiosk base device e.g. the initial interaction with software on user device prior to the gesture may define limits on what movies the child may be able to download from kiosk base device with the gesture and 3 interactive which can be used when at least one of the devices such as user device is on and interacting with the user e.g. via a user interface of user device enabled by a user device application while the devices are docked or otherwise communicatively coupled to each other e.g. while adapter device of user device is communicatively coupled to base device via contactless link such that a user of the device may be directing what where and or how data would move between the devices e.g. for organizing a video library streaming a movie out of the device dragging and dropping files between the devices etc. . In each case the data may be strictly moved within the isolated adapter memory components of the devices. Once a transfer is complete e.g. from base device to memory of adapter device adapter memory component may be reconnected to user device where user device can then test the new data recently transferred to adapter memory e.g. for malware DRM inappropriate content etc. before user device may accept and or use that data e.g. transfer data first ask questions later which can help assure a consistent user experience for transfer rates regardless of the capabilities of the host device.

Such embodiments can be achieved with no changes to the hardware or software or otherwise of a device using adapter device e.g. user device and or base device . Purpose built apps e.g. applications and or on a host device or otherwise can substantially enrich the user experience provide data security and or enforce digital rights management. Adapter device can be incorporated into a protective sleeve or cover or removable card or dongle or may be piggybacked onto wireless power modules or other components that may be coupled onto the inside of user device e.g. a smartphone . Such adapter device functionality can be implemented as a discrete silicon chip such as an ASIC or FPGA. Additionally or alternatively such adapter device functionality may be implemented with a high performance processor that may include a DMA engine built in which may reduce the implementation largely to just firmware. Additionally or alternatively such adapter device functionality may be implemented into a memory controller of the host device e.g. of user device . Anyone or more of user device adapter device base device and or auxiliary device may be a dongle.

In the interest of taking advantage of economies of scale and eliminating a need to custom design a specific sleeve adapter for all the potential user devices it may be desirable to provide a modular adapter that can be universally accepted by any one of several device shells. show respectively an illustrative device specific shell that is configured to interface with illustrative modular adapter and a specific user device not shown according to various embodiments.

Device specific shell may represent one of a plethora of different shells that can be custom designed for any suitable number of user devices e.g. user device phones or cameras . Device specific shell may be constructed so that it attaches to the user device in a particular manner. For example shell may fully or partially surround a housing of the user device or it may be attached to a particular region of the user device. Device specific shell may be a single piece or multiple piece construction. As a single piece it may be able to securely retain modular adapter in place with respect to the user device and enable modular adapter to function as intended. For example modular adapter may be placed inside a retaining region not shown of shell and the combination thereof can be secured to the user device. As a multiple piece construction the pieces may be assembled together to securely retain modular adapter in place with respect to the user device and enable modular adapter to function as intended. For example a first piece may have a retaining region for securing modular adapter and be configured to be attached to a first portion of the user device and a second piece may be configured to be coupled to the first piece and to a second portion of the user device.

The material composition and construction of shell may be such that it complies with a set of criteria that enables operation of one or more EHF contactless units contained within modular adapter . For example shell may include one or more waveguides that facilitate propagation of EHF signals. Shell may include EHF conduit structures that contain EHF signals within one or more pathways. Shell may be constructed to have various dielectric and conductive materials to selectively shape and or inhibit transmission of EHF signals.

Shell may include any number of connectors for interfacing with the user device and modular adapter . One of the connectors may be designed to interface with a connector of the user device. Such a connector is illustrated as connector which can be a male connector designed to fit within a counterpart female connector of the user device. Another one of the connectors may be designed to interface with a connector of modular adapter . For example connector may be a female connector that interfaces with a counterpart male connector of adapter . If desired shell may include yet another connector such as female connector . Connector may be electrically coupled to the user device s female connector to thereby enable a pass through connection between the user device and a device remote to the user device. Connectors and may be coupled to a printed circuit board and may be electrically interconnected via one more conductive paths.

Referring now to modular adapter is discussed. Modular adapter may be similar in many respects to adapter device of . For example adapter may include memory peripheral subsystem adapter host subsystem switch and contactless communication units . In addition modular adapter may include male connector that can interface with counterpart female connector of shell . When modular adapter is coupled to device specific shell and the combination thereof is coupled to the user device the user device is imparted with the functionality of module adapter thereby providing the user device similar functionality as that imparted by adapter device to user device .

It should be understood that the steps shows in are merely illustrative and that additional steps may be added steps may be omitted and the order of steps can be rearranged.

It is believed that the disclosure set forth herein encompasses multiple distinct inventions with independent utility. While each of these inventions has been disclosed in its preferred form the specific embodiments thereof as disclosed and illustrated herein are not to be considered in a limiting sense as numerous variations are possible. Each example defines an embodiment disclosed in the foregoing disclosure but any one example does not necessarily encompass all features or combinations that may be eventually claimed. Where the description recites a or a first element or the equivalent thereof such description may include one or more such elements neither requiring nor excluding two or more such elements. Further ordinal indicators such as first second or third for identified elements are used to distinguish between the elements and do not indicate a required or limited number of such elements and do not indicate a particular position or order of such elements unless otherwise specifically stated.

Moreover any processes described with respect to as well as any other aspects of the disclosure may each be implemented by software but may also be implemented in hardware firmware or any combination of software hardware and firmware. Instructions for performing these processes may be embodied as machine or computer readable code that may be recorded on a machine or computer readable medium. In some embodiments the computer readable medium may be a non transitory computer readable medium. Examples of such a non transitory computer readable medium include but are not limited to a read only memory a random access memory a flash memory a CD ROM a DVD a magnetic tape a removable memory card and a data storage device. In other embodiments the computer readable medium may be a transitory computer readable medium. In such embodiments the transitory computer readable medium can be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code may be stored and executed in a distributed fashion. For example the computer readable medium may be communicated from one electronic subsystem or device to another electronic subsystem or device using any suitable communications protocol. The computer readable medium may embody computer readable code instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

It is to be understood that any or each module or state machine discussed herein may be provided as a software construct firmware construct one or more hardware components or a combination thereof. For example any one or more of the state machines or modules may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules that may be executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally a program module may include one or more routines programs objects components and or data structures that may perform one or more particular tasks or that may implement one or more particular abstract data types. It is also to be understood that the number configuration functionality and interconnection of the modules or state machines are merely illustrative and that the number configuration functionality and interconnection of existing modules may be modified or omitted additional modules may be added and the interconnection of certain modules may be altered.

Whereas many alterations and modifications of the present disclosure will no doubt become apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art after having read the foregoing description it is to be understood that the particular embodiments shown and described by way of illustration are in no way intended to be considered limiting. Therefore reference to the details of the preferred embodiments is not intended to limit their scope.

