---

title: Daisy chaining of tournament audio controllers
abstract: A method and system for daisy chaining tournament audio controllers, where the method comprises, in a headset coupled to a first tournament audio controller (TAC), the first TAC being in a daisy chain of TACs: receiving a chat signal from a previous TAC in the daisy chain of TACs, receiving a microphone signal from a microphone in the headset, summing the chat signal with the microphone signal, communicating the summed signal to a next TAC in the daisy chain, and communicating the chat signal to the headset. The microphone signal may be removed from the summed chat signal and microphone signal by adding a second microphone signal 180 degrees out of phase with the microphone signal. The chat signal may be summed with the microphone signal at an amplitude set by a user of the headset after the removal of the microphone signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09415308&OS=09415308&RS=09415308
owner: Voyetra Turtle Beach, Inc.
number: 09415308
owner_city: Valhalla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150807
---
Aspects of the present application relate to audio headsets and more specifically to methods and systems for daisy chaining tournament audio controllers.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to headset networking will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for daisy chaining tournament audio controllers substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

Certain aspects of the disclosure may be found in daisy chaining tournament audio controllers. Example aspects of the disclosure may comprise in a headset coupled to a first tournament audio controller TAC where the first TAC is in a daisy chain of TACs receiving a chat signal from a previous TAC in the daisy chain of TACs receiving a microphone signal from a microphone in the headset summing the chat signal with the microphone signal communicating the summed chat signal and microphone signal to a next TAC in the daisy chain if the first TAC is not at an end of the daisy chain of TACs and communicating the chat signal to the headset. The microphone signal may be removed from the summed chat signal and microphone signal by adding a second microphone signal 180 degrees out of phase with the microphone signal. The chat signal may be summed with the microphone signal at an amplitude set by a user of the headset after the removal of the microphone signal from the summed chat signal and microphone signal. The summed chat signal and microphone signal summed at an amplitude set by the user may be communicated to the headset. The summed chat signal and microphone signal may be communicated to the previous TAC in the daisy chain if the first TAC is at an end of the daisy chain of TACs. A signal from a gaming console may be summed with the summed chat signal and microphone signal. Each TAC in the daisy chain of TACs may be coupled to a headset. The chat signal may comprise audio from the headsets coupled to each of the TACs in the daisy chain. The received chat signal may be converted from a differential signal to a single ended signal before being summed with the microphone signal.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . In other words x and or y means one or both of x and y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . In other words x y and or z means one or more of x y and z . As utilized herein the term exemplary means serving as a non limiting example instance or illustration. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry or a device is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry or device comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled e.g. by a user configurable setting factory trim etc. .

Referring to there is shown game console which may be for example a Windows computing device a Unix computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like. The example game console comprises a radio network interface video interface audio interface southbridge main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various busses links and .

The southbridge comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment 2 SATA 2 embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCIe or the like. The southbridge may receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA 2 and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA 2 and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The southbridge exchanges data with radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCIe .

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like.

The network interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCIe and may communicate with the network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. The video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise circuitry operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 5 7 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises memory e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory which stores parameter settings that affect processing of audio by the APU . For example the parameter settings may include a first audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of game audio output by the console and a second audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of chat audio output by the console . The parameter settings may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory comprises high speed memory typically DRAM for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to a user interface device a user interface device a network a monitor and audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like. The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth and or the like . The user interface device communicates with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuitry. The game console sends audio to the subsystem via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio . In an example scenario the audio subsystem comprises a tournament audio controller TAC which provides closed system chat capability for a plurality of users. In addition the TAC may be daisy chained to provide a chat environment for more users. Each TAC may be operable to receive chat audio from one or more headsets with microphones as well as from other TACs and may provide an out of phase cancelling effect to remove a user s voice from their own audio signal while provising chat audio from all the other users. Additional details of an example tournament audio controller are described below.

In gaming tournaments there are teams of multiple players who compete against each other. During the game play the mic signal from each player needs to be heard by every other player on the team. By simply mixing all of the microphone signals together and distributing the summed mics to every player each player would have his own microphone mixed in and hear himself at a fixed level. That player would not be able to cancel out his own microphone signal. A chat loop in accordance with the disclosure fixes this issue. The TAC may enable a chat loop and may be daisy chained with TACs for other users in a loop.

Referring to again shown is the console connected to a plurality of peripheral devices and a network . The example peripheral devices shown include a monitor a user interface device a headset an audio TAC and a multi purpose device . The TAC may be operable to provide private chat capability for a number of users and may be daisy chained with other TACs depending on the desired number of users.

The monitor and user interface device are as described above. An example implementation of the headset is described below with reference to .

The multi purpose device may be for example a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer or the like that runs an operating system such as Android Linux Windows iOS OSX or the like. Hardware e.g. a network adaptor and software i.e. the operating system and one or more applications loaded onto the device may configure the device for operating as part of the GPN . For example an application running on the device may cause display of a graphical user interface via which a user can access gaming related data commands functions parameter settings etc. and via which the user can interact with the console and the other devices of the GPN to enhance his her gaming experience.

The peripheral devices and are in communication with one another via a plurality of wired and or wireless links represented visually by the placement of the devices in the cloud of GPN . Each of the peripheral devices in the gaming peripheral network GPN may communicate with one or more others of the peripheral devices in the GPN in a single hop or multi hop fashion. For example the headset may communicate with the TAC in a single hop e.g. over a proprietary RF link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the tablet may communicate with the TAC in two hops via the headset . As another example the user interface device may communicate with the headset in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the device may communicate with the headset in two hops via the user interface device . These example interconnections among the peripheral devices of the GPN are merely examples any number combinations and or types of links among the devices of the GPN is possible.

The GPN may communicate with the console via any one or more of the connections and described above. The GPN may communicate with a network via one or more links each of which may be for example Wi Fi wired Ethernet and or the like.

A database which stores gaming audio data is accessible via the network . The gaming audio data may comprise for example signatures of particular audio clips e.g. individual sounds or collections or sequences of sounds that are part of the game audio of particular games of particular levels scenarios of particular games particular characters of particular games etc. In an example implementation the database may comprise a plurality of records where each record comprises an audio clip or signature of the clip a description of the clip e.g. the game it is from when it occurs in the game etc. one or more gaming commands associated with the clip one or more parameter settings associated with the clip and or other data associated with the audio clip. Records of the database may be downloadable to or accessed in real time by one or more devices of the GPN .

In an example scenario the headset may communicate with the gaming console via the TAC with the TAC coupled to a plurality of users and other TACs. The TAC may combine multiple audio inputs while subtracting out specific audio for certain outputs such as a user s voice in their own headset. The daisy chaining of the TAC with other TACS provides secure chat capability for a configurable number of users.

While the headset in is shown communicating with a gaming console the disclosure is not so limited as this is merely an example use for the headset . Accordingly the headset may be utilized in other applications such as a cellular phone headset music player headset or as a headset in any other communications application and or protocol where multiple users may want to communicate concurrently.

Referring to there is shown two views of an example headset that may present audio output by a gaming console such as the console and or may be coupled to a TAC such as the TAC . The headset comprises a headband a microphone boom with microphone ear cups and which surround speakers and connector connector and user controls .

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone converts acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by circuitry of the headset and or for output to a device e.g. console TAC a smartphone and or the like that is in communication with the headset.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct or the like with another computing device and or the like.

The connector may be for example a USB port. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example parameter settings described below . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet compute laptop computer or the like.

In an example scenario the headset may be coupled to a TAC such as the TAC for chat communications with a plurality of users which may be suitable for a gaming tournament situation for example.

The radio may comprise radio frequency RF circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the TAC .

The CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage device may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the headset and parameter settings that affect functions performed by the user controls . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuitry .

Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the headset in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game chat and or microphone audio that is subsequently output to speaker and . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on chat audio that is subsequently output to the connector and or radio .

The charge control module may comprise suitable circuitry logic and or code for controlling the charging of the battery . Accordingly the charge control module may receive electrical current from the induction coil which in turn receives electromagnetic energy from a charging induction coil in the charging station via inductive coupling. The charge control module may also receive instructions from the CPU which may receive instructions from a charging station via the radio .

In an example scenario an alternating current in the induction coil may be utilized by the charge control module to charge the battery . In this manner the battery may be charged without the need for any physical connection to a charging station but merely by being in close proximity with the distance determined by the induction coil and associated coil in the charging station. Furthermore the headset may receive commands wirelessly from the charging station in which the headset is placed as shown in .

As stated previously in gaming tournaments there are teams of multiple players who compete against each other. During the game play the mic signal from each player needs to be heard by every other player on the team. By simply mixing all of the microphone signals together and distributing the summed mics to every player each player would have his own microphone mixed in and hear himself at a fixed level. That player would not be able to cancel out his own microphone signal.

In an example scenario in tournament play each player has his or her own TAC coupled to their headset. The TACs A and B may receive audio signals from the game console as well as audio signals from microphones in the headsets . The TACs allow for the gamer to adjust via the four sliders the game chat ratio microphone noise gate for the reduction of background noise microphone level and microphone monitor. A knob may provide volume control. The microphone monitor function is discussed further with respect to and enables a chat loop with multiple players while configuring the sound heard by each user as desired without their own voice at the same volume as other users. The microphone monitor allows the user to adjust the amount of his own microphone that gets mixed back in to his own headset so he may hear him or herself.

As shown in multiple TACs may be coupled together in a daisy chain configuration. The microphone output from the headset may pass from the first TAC to the second TAC. When it is received by the second TAC the microphone signal of the first TAC may be summed with the microphone signal of the second unit and passed to the third. This continues until the last unit. The TACs may detect if a cable is plugged into another unit so that each unit knows if it is in the middle or at the end of chain. If it is detected that it is the last TAC then the last TAC will take all the summed microphone signals and pass them back to the previous TAC. In turn each TAC will pass the summed signals back to the previous TAC until it gets back to the first TAC.

Because the summed microphone signals get passed back to the previous TAC each TAC will hear the Chat Loop Audio that contains every player s voice. Each TAC will receive the total Chat Audio and then mix in the microphone of the user at the same amplitude but 180 degrees out of phase which cancels his or her own voice from the Chat Loop inside his or her own TAC . Then the Microphone signal may be mixed in at the level at which the user sets the Mic Monitor fader control.

The summers A E may comprise suitable circuitry logic and or code that is operable to receive a plurality of input signals and provide an output signal that is a sum of the input signals. For example the summer A may receive the positive signal from the microphone output the positive signal from the Chat Loop from the previous TAC and the negative chat loop signal from the previous TAC Output and generate an output that is the sum of these signals the sum being communicated to the chat loop switch and also back to the Chat Loop Output to Next TAC Input . The summers A E may also be operable to convert a differential input to a single ended output. In addition the summers A E may configure the gain level of each input based on the user settings so that a user may select the volume of their own voice in the chat loop mix for example.

The chat loop switch may comprise suitable circuitry logic and or code that is operable to switch signals based on what position it has in a chain of TACs. In an example scenario where a plurality of TACs are daisy chained each TAC sends the summed audio to the next TAC as shown the feedback path from the outputs of the mixers A and B the CHAT LOOP Output to next TAC input . The chat loop switch may either send the Summed Chat audio back to the Previous TAC if it is the last TAC as shown by the CHAT LOOP Output to Previous TAC Input or may take the audio from the next TAC the Chat Loop Return from Next TAC Output and send it to the previous TAC if it is not the last in the chain.

In an example scenario the microphone output comprises a balanced output with the and signals being communicated to the summers A and B which results in a differential to single ended conversion with an 180 degree inversion. Because the summed microphone signals get passed back to the previous TAC each TAC will hear the Chat Loop Audio that contains every player s voice. In addition due to the balanced output of the microphone the signal may be canceled at another portion of the TAC by summing signals with 180 degree phase difference.

Each TAC may receive the total Chat Audio and then mix in the microphone of the user at the same or adjusted amplitude 180 degrees out of phase at the summers D and E. This may configure the magnitude of or cancel entirely the user s own voice from the Chat Loop inside their own TAC after which the Microphone signal may be mixed in at the level at which the user sets the Mic Monitor fader control. In this manner the summers D and E may configure the volume of the user s own microphone signal for their headset.

In addition the console input may be summed with the chat loop by the summers D and E. In an example scenario each TAC in the daisy chain may be coupled to a game console that provides an audio signal corresponding to the user s activity so that each user hears their own game sound signal and the same chat loop signal as other users but with their own voice mixed in as configured by the user.

The total chat may be communicated to the user headset or to a digital signal processor DSP for further processing.

In starting step a headset may be coupled to each TAC each of which may be daisy chained with the other TACs. In step the microphone signal from the user of a particular TAC may be summed with the chat loop signal received from the previous TAC resulting in single ended inverted signals from the MIC and MIC signals.

In step the MIC chat loop audio may be sent to the next TAC or the chat loop audio may be communicated back to the previous TAC if last in the chain.

In step the MIC signal may be summed with the chat loop MIC signal and the console input to cancel the MIC signal and result in the chat loop signal. In step the resulting chat loop signal may be communicated to the associated headset or to a DSP for further processing before being communicated to the headset.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure daisy chaining tournament audio controllers are disclosed and may comprise a headset coupled to a first tournament audio controller TAC where the first TAC being is in a daisy chain of TACs. The headset is operable to receive a chat signal from a previous TAC in the daisy chain of TACs receive a microphone signal from a microphone in the headset sum the chat signal with the microphone signal communicate the summed chat signal and microphone signal to a next TAC in the daisy chain if the first TAC is not at an end of the daisy chain of TACs and communicate the chat signal to the headset.

The microphone signal may be removed from the summed chat signal and microphone signal by adding a second microphone signal 180 degrees out of phase with the microphone signal. The chat signal may be summed with the microphone signal at an amplitude set by a user of the headset after the removal of the microphone signal from the summed chat signal and microphone signal. The summed chat signal and microphone signal summed at an amplitude set by the user may be communicated to the headset.

The summed chat signal and microphone signal may be communicated to the previous TAC in the daisy chain if the first TAC is at an end of the daisy chain of TACs. A signal from a gaming console may be summed with the summed chat signal and microphone signal. Each TAC in the daisy chain of TACs may be coupled to a headset. The chat signal may comprise audio from the headsets coupled to each of the TACs in the daisy chain. The received chat signal may be converted from a differential signal to a single ended signal before being summed with the microphone signal. The microphone signal may comprise a balanced signal.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

