---

title: Managing electronic keys
abstract: Users of a social networking platform may provide electronic keys to other users of the social networking platform. Use of an electronic key may be subject to one or more conditions specified by the issuer of the electronic key. Data may be provided that enables the recipient to use the electronic key in accordance with the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646165&OS=09646165&RS=09646165
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09646165
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150126
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 735 102 filed Jan. 7 2013 now allowed which claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 694 992 filed on Aug. 30 2012 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Locks are used to control access to many items and areas such as buildings vehicles and storage containers. Frequently a lock is opened with a physical key shaped for the lock. Typically different locks are opened with different keys. Consequently many people carry several physical keys in order to be able to open different locks.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Techniques are described for enabling users to distribute electronic keys to other users. For example techniques are described for enabling users of a social networking platform to distribute electronic keys to other users of the social networking platform. In some implementations a user of the social networking platform selects a lock that the user controls such as a lock for a door to the user s house or lock for the user s vehicle. The user also selects a member of the user s social network as a recipient for a key to the lock. For example the user may select the recipient of the key from among users designated as friends of the user in a social networking platform. A key management server issues to the recipient an electronic key that opens the lock. The recipient can then use an electronic device such as a mobile phone to activate the electronic key thereby opening the lock. For example the recipient s electronic device can receive access data from the key management system and the electronic device can provide the access data to the lock to open the lock.

The user that issues the electronic key may impose one or more conditions on the use of the electronic key by the recipient. For example the issuer may limit a number of times the electronic key may be used limit a window of time during which the electronic key may be used require the recipient to possess certain qualifications to use the electronic key and or place other restrictions or constraints on use of the electronic key. In some implementations when one or more conditions are imposed on the use of an electronic key the key management server determines whether the one or more conditions are satisfied each time use of the electronic key is attempted. When all of the one or more conditions are determined to be satisfied the key management server permits the lock to be opened. When the one or more conditions are not satisfied the key management server does not permit the lock to open.

In some implementations managing electronic keys using social networking platforms allows users to quickly and conveniently provide keys to other users. By selecting the recipient for an electronic key from among the user s social networking connections a user can quickly select recipients whom the user trusts. Using social networking connections to transfer the electronic key can also help ensure that the intended recipient instead of someone else actually receives the electronic key. Selecting a recipient with whom the issuer has a relationship in a social networking platform can help avoid a transfer to an incorrect user due to for example mistyping an electronic address or designating a user with a name that is confusingly similar to the name of the desired recipient.

In some implementations issuing an electronic key rather than a physical key may provide a number of other advantages. Electronic keys can be transferred through remote action of the issuer while physical keys must be physically transported from one location to another. When a user issues an electronic key the user s own ability to open the corresponding lock is not diminished. By contrast a person that transfers a physical key must give up use of the physical key to complete the transfer. A user may issue multiple electronic keys without affecting the user s own access and without incurring the expense of duplicating a physical key. Further after an electronic key has been issued the user may revoke or temporarily disable the electronic key quickly and remotely.

In some implementations electronic keys relieve the recipient of the electronic keys of the need to carry multiple keys. Rather than carry multiple physical keys each of which is dedicated to opening a particular lock a single electronic device such as a mobile phone can act as the key to open any lock for which an electronic key has been granted. In addition electronic keys can be linked to a user identity rather than being limited to a single physical device. For example if a user s personal mobile phone is unavailable the user may log in to his user identity using another electronic device to use electronic keys granted to him. When electronic keys are linked to a user identity the electronic keys may be less likely to be misplaced or stolen than physical keys.

In some implementations by setting conditions on the use of electronic keys users can specify the type of access permitted to particular recipients of an electronic key. Different recipients of an electronic key can be given different levels of access selected by the key issuer. In addition the issuer of an electronic key can also change the conditions for use of an electronic key quickly and remotely for example through interaction with a server system over a network. The issuer may thus retain a degree of control over electronic keys through conditions on the use of the electronic keys and or through the ability to revoke the electronic keys.

As an example a parent may issue to a teenage child an electronic key to an automobile. The parent may place conditions that allow unrestricted use of the electronic key during designated times such as on weekdays between 7 00 am and 9 00 am and 3 00 pm and 6 00 pm to allow the child to travel to and from school. The conditions can specify that at other times each use of the electronic key to start the ignition for the automobile requires approval from the parent which the parent can provide remotely using his or her mobile phone. In addition the electronic key issued by the parent may be a valet key that for example permits entry to the vehicle and ignition but does not provide access to storage compartments or other functionality of the automobile.

As another example an executive may grant to his assistant an electronic key that unlocks the executive s office door. However the executive can impose the condition that the electronic key may only be used when the executive is not present in the office. The executive may also grant to each of the information technology staff and cleaning staff in the company an electronic key that unlocks the office. The conditions on the electronic key can require that for these recipients the electronic key can only be used when the executive is not present in the office and one of a designated set of supervisors is present at the office.

In some implementations a system receives data identifying a recipient for an electronic key to a physical lock where the recipient is connected to the user in a social networking platform. The system also receives data identifying the physical lock to which the user desires to provide the electronic key. The physical lock may be selected from a set of locks to which the user has authority to grant access. The system receives data indicating one or more conditions on use of the electronic key. The system stores in electronic storage key data that identifies the recipient of the electronic key the lock for which the electronic key is granted and the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key. The system accesses from profile data for the recipient from the social networking platform an electronic address for the recipient. The system transmits to the electronic address for the recipient data that indicates that the electronic key is transferred to the recipient. The system transmits to the electronic address for the recipient data that enables the recipient to use the electronic key in accordance with the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key.

Thereafter the system may receive from an electronic device use data indicating an attempted use of the electronic key. The request may identify the electronic key and include description information that describes the attempted use of the electronic key. The system accesses the stored key data and evaluates the description information against the key data. Based on the evaluation the system determines that the attempted use of the electronic key satisfies the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key. In response to determining that the attempted use of the electronic key satisfies the one or more conditions the system transmits to the electronic device an access code that unlocks the lock.

The user interface enables the key issuer to select one or more recipients to receive an electronic key. In particular the user interface identifies members of the key issuer s social network in a social networking platform. Examples of social networking platforms include Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace and Orkut to name a few. Electronic social networking platforms may permit human users of the social networking platform to create user identities within the social networking platform and establish connections with the user identities of other users. The members of the key issuer s social network include for example users whose social networking user identities are connected to the social networking user identity for the key issuer within the social networking platform.

Electronic social networking platforms may indicate a variety of relationships between human users of the social network. Examples of these relationships include social friendships family relationships professional relationships and affiliations with groups or organizations. Relationships are often represented by connections between user identities corresponding to the respective human users. When a connection exists between user identities and thus a relationship also exists between the associated human users one user may be termed a friend a connection a follower or a subscriber of another user or the relationship may have another designation.

In the illustrated example the user interface includes user interface elements that identify users who are connected to the key issuer in a social networking platform e.g. users designated in a social networking platform as friends of the key issuer family members of the key issuer etc. . Also in the illustrated example each of the user interface elements includes a name and photo from the social networking profile for the corresponding user. Other information from the social networking profile of a user e.g. current status hometown current location etc. may additionally or alternatively be displayed. In addition or as an alternative data indicating the relationship of the social networking contact to the user in a social networking platform can be provided e.g. whether a social networking contact is designated as a friend a close friend a family member a co worker etc. in one or more social networking platforms .

By interacting with the user interface elements the key issuer may select a set of users to designate as recipients for the electronic key. For example the key issuer may tap or otherwise interact with the user interface elements on a touchscreen of the electronic device to select the users as recipients of the electronic key. Additionally or alternatively the key issuer may utilize another input mechanism e.g. a pointing device like a computer mouse or a keyboard to interact with the user interface elements .

In some implementations the user interface identifies users who are connected to the key issuer in different social networks. For example multiple lists of friends of the key issuer can be included where each of the multiple lists identifies friends of the key issuer in a different social networking platform. As another example data from multiple social networking platforms may be combined so that users connected to the key issuer in different social networking platforms may be listed together in a single list or interface.

In some implementations a set of multiple users can be identified on the user interface and the key issuer can select the entire set to provide the same electronic key to each member of the set. For example a subset of a user s friends e.g. co workers can be defined in the social networking platform. The key issuer may be able to select a user interface element representing the subset to select all of the users in the subset to receive the electronic key.

The user interface also enables the key issuer to select one or more locks that the electronic key will open. By selecting one or more locks the key issuer can designate the type of electronic key that will be issued e.g. a key to the key issuer s car home office boat etc. . The locks can be physical locks that control access to a physical device or physical space. For example the locks can secure the door of a room or building the ignition of a vehicle entry to a file cabinet or safe and so on.

In the illustrated example the user interface includes user interface elements that indicate locks for which the key issuer is authorized to grant keys e.g. locks for which the key issuer owns access control . For example the locks identified by the user interface elements can be locks that the key issuer or another user has previously registered as being under the key issuer s control. In some implementations a key management system verifies the key issuer s authority to grant access to locks and indicates only locks that have been successfully verified. In some implementations if the key issuer has received an electronic key from another user and is permitted to share the key with others the corresponding lock can be included in the list of locks to which the key issuer has been granted access.

After selecting one or more recipients for the electronic key and selecting one or more locks that the electronic key will open the key issuer may interact with one or more controls to submit the data indicating the selections to a key management system. The key management system may provide an electronic key to the selected recipients. In some implementations transferring the electronic key does not affect the key issuer s access to the lock but extends access to the recipient that the recipient did not previously enjoy. The key issuer may also set one or more conditions for use of the electronic key as described further below.

The user interface enables the key issuer to set the properties of an electronic key. In the illustrated example the user interface includes user interface elements that identify the electronic key being modified. For example the user interface element identifies the user that is the recipient of the electronic key and the user interface element identifies the lock that the electronic key opens.

The user interface enables the key issuer to select one or more conditions on the use of the electronic key. The conditions may specify limits to the use of the key by the recipient and or limits to the ability of the recipient to transfer the key to others. In the illustrated example the user interface includes user interface elements that specify various conditions which the key issuer may select to apply to the electronic key.

The key issuer may set time conditions that regulate the time that the electronic key may be used by the recipient. For example the key issuer may specify a range of time during which the electronic key can be used by indicating a start time and or end time that the electronic key is operable. In the illustrated example the user interface element specifies a condition that the electronic key will expire and thus not be operable after a particular date. A time condition may specify a recurring range of time during which the electronic key can be used e.g. on weekends nightly from 6 00 9 00 pm etc. .

Some conditions on use of the electronic key may require that the recipient possess particular credentials or qualifications to use the electronic key. For example the user interface element specifies a condition that the electronic key for the vehicle is operable only when the recipient possesses a valid driver s license. Other examples of qualifications that may be required include meeting an age requirement e.g. recipient must be at least a minimum age holding a particular position in a company and having no criminal record.

Conditions on use of the electronic key may require approval from the key issuer for actions requiring use of the electronic key. For example the user interface element specifies that each use of the electronic key requires approval of the key issuer. In some implementations when the recipient attempts to use the electronic key a key management system provides information about the attempted use to an application running on an electronic device associated with the key issuer. The application asks whether the key issuer approves the attempted use and the key issuer can grant or deny approval. The input from the key issuer is transmitted to the key management system which permits the electronic key to be used only if the attempted use was approved.

Conditions on use of the electronic key may limit the number of uses of the electronic key as indicated by the user interface element . For example a key issuer may grant an electronic key that permits only a single use or a predetermined number of uses e.g. 3 uses 10 uses 20 uses etc. .

Conditions on use of the electronic key may require the presence of the key issuer the recipient or others at the lock or may require their absence when the electronic key is used. The presence of a user can be determined based on the location of an electronic device associated with a user near field communication NFC between the electronic device and the lock passwords biometric input and other techniques. As an example a condition may specify that the electronic key is operable only when the key issuer is not present at the site of the lock. With this condition the key issuer can avoid being disturbed by the entry of an unannounced visitor. The key issuer can be determined to be present near a lock when for example GPS data or other location data indicates that a phone or other electronic device associated with the key issuer is located within a threshold distance of the lock or that the key issuer has opened the lock within a predetermined amount of time e.g. 2 hours 6 hours 1 day 3 days etc. .

As another example a condition can specify that the electronic key is only operable when the identity of the recipient is confirmed at the time the electronic key is used. Conditions may require multi factor authentication of the recipient for an electronic key to be operable. For example in addition to providing data identifying the recipient s phone or other electronic device the recipient may be required to enter a password provide a biometric input e.g. through a fingerprint scan retina scan iris scan facial image speech sample etc. or provide another identifying input.

Conditions may also require the presence of a person at the site of the lock in addition to the recipient. For example the electronic key may be operational only when the recipient is accompanied by one of a designated set of individuals or by an individual that satisfies one or more criteria. For example a teenager with a new driver s license may be issued an electronic key for a vehicle with the condition that another person at least 21 years old that holds a driver s license must also be present. As another example an employee may be granted an electronic key that opens a safe but the electronic key is operational only when a manager or security guard is present with the employee. The presence of a particular person can be verified based on the presence of an electronic device associated with the particular person at the site of the lock entry of a password biometric input and or other techniques.

Conditions can also specify to what extent if any the recipient is permitted to transfer the received electronic key to other users. The user interface includes user interface elements that indicate various conditions that affect transferability of an electronic key. The key issuer may specify that an electronic key is not transferrable as shown by the user interface element . The key issuer may specify that the electronic key may be transferred to only a limited set of users for example users who have a particular relationship with the key issuer in one or more social networks. As indicated by the user interface element transfers may be limited to friends of the key issuer. In a similar manner transfer of the electronic key can be limited to users who are connected to both the key issuer and the recipient in one or more social networks. In addition or as an alternative the key issuer may specify that each transfer of the electronic key requires approval from the key issuer.

In some implementations when a first recipient transfers a received electronic key to a second recipient the conditions on use of the electronic key for the first recipient are also applied to the electronic key received by the second recipient. In some implementations additional or different conditions may be placed on the electronic key after the transfer.

After the key issuer selects the conditions if any that the key issuer desires to impose for the electronic key the key issuer may interact with one or more controls to save or confirm the selections. The key management system receives data indicating the conditions and saves data identifying the conditions. The key management system then notifies the recipient of the newly issued key.

In some implementations the key management system notifies a recipient when an electronic key is issued to the recipient or when conditions on the recipient s electronic key are modified. In the illustrated example the user interface notifies a recipient that a new electronic key has been issued to the recipient. The user interface includes one or more indicators that identify the lock that the electronic key opens for example with an identifier e.g. address room number license plate number etc. image and or description. The user interface also includes one or more user interface elements that identify the conditions that limit use of the electronic key. The user interface can provide identifying information that identifies the key issuer for example a name a social networking identifier a photo an electronic address or other identifying information.

In some implementations notifications about electronic keys can be provided through a social networking platform in addition to or as an alternative to the notification shown in and notifications through other channels e.g. an SMS text message an electronic mail message etc. . In the illustrated example the key management system distributes information about the electronic key in a user interface used to access a social networking platform such as a home page or wall of the recipient. For example when the recipient logs into the social networking platform information about the electronic key may be provided as a status update post item in a news feed or other social networking message or notice. Like the user interface of the user interface includes one or more user interface elements that describe the electronic key by identifying for example the key issuer the lock that the electronic key opens and conditions on use of the electronic key.

In some implementations the electronic device receives access data that permits the electronic device to open the lock. The key management system may provide the access data when the recipient logs into a key management application e.g. executing on the electronic device and or on a remote server after the electronic key has been issued. The access data may be for example a numeric code a text sequence or data encoded in another form. For example the access data may include data from which a Quick Response QR code a bar code or another image may be rendered. The electronic device may display the image and a scanner on the lock may read the image to confirm that access is permitted. As another example the access data can describe a signal such as a radio frequency signal infrared signal or an ultrasonic signal e.g. a sound wave with a frequency of approximately 20 kHz or more . The electronic device can output the signal to the lock to transmit the access code for example using near field communication NFC techniques an electromagnetic radiation source and or a loudspeaker.

In some implementations the access data may be stored on the electronic device permitting the electronic device to act as a key to open the lock. In some implementations however additional data or other data is required to open a lock. For example data from the key management system may be required to verify that conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied as described further below. When an electronic key is revoked or disabled the key management application on the electronic device may delete or otherwise disallow access to the stored access data.

The lock may be attached to be controlled by or include control logic implemented as hardware software or a combination thereof that determines when the lock should be unlocked. For example the lock may determine whether a received code is valid to open the lock e.g. whether the code matches a predetermined code . Mechanical locking mechanisms may be manipulated by electronics that operate responsive to outputs from the control logic.

The lock may include one or more mechanisms for communicating with persons and other devices. The input mechanisms may include one or more of for example a camera a microphone a keypad a touchpad a touchscreen a proximity sensor an infrared receiver an ultrasound receiver e.g. a microphone a fingerprint scanner an iris scanner a retina scanner an RFID reader a bar code reader and a QR code reader. The input mechanisms can also include sensors antennas transceivers and or other components that enable direct communication with other devices such as the electronic device . For example the lock may include a camera with which to capture an image of a QR code displayed on the electronic device . As another example the lock may include a Bluetooth module to communicate with the electronic device . Modules to permit communication over Wi Fi direct wired connections or other communications channels may additionally or alternatively be included in the lock or electronics associated with the lock . The lock may include sensors permitting communication using ultrasound signals infrared signals electromagnetic signals and other data carriers. The lock can include one or more near field communication NFC modules. The lock may include communications modules that permit communication over the network .

To use the electronic key the recipient initiates an unlocking action using the electronic device . The unlocking action can be for example entry of a user input on a touchscreen or other user interface of the electronic device a tap of the electronic device against the lock e.g. to enable NFC based transfer of information from the electronic device to the lock positioning the electronic device near the lock e.g. to enable the transfer of information from the electronic device to the lock via an IR and or ultrasonic signal or another action using the electronic device .

In some implementations the electronic device may store or provide access to multiple different electronic keys. The recipient may select from among the multiple different keys a particular electronic key that is needed. As an example the electronic device may display a list of electronic keys issued to the recipient based on data stored on the electronic device or data received from the key management system . The recipient provides user input indicating the particular key that the recipient intends to use for example the key to the car owned by Sam the key issuer. In response the electronic device performs a process to make the selected key available to be used to unlock the lock . As shown the electronic device may indicate on a user interface a visual representation of the electronic key that is being used.

In some implementations the recipient may unlock the lock without designating a particular electronic key that should be used. When the recipient initiates the unlocking action the application may determine whether the recipient has been issued an electronic key that opens the lock . When the application determines that an appropriate electronic key has been issued the application may select the electronic key and automatically use the electronic key to unlock the lock without receiving user input that selects the electronic key.

As an example as a result of the unlocking action the electronic device may receive an identifier for the lock through communication with the lock . The electronic device and or the key management system may compare the lock identifier with lock identifiers stored in key data for the various electronic keys issued to the recipient. The electronic device and or the key management system may determine that a lock identifier in key data for a particular electronic key matches the lock identifier for the lock . In response the electronic device and or the key management system engage in an unlocking process using the particular electronic key. In this manner the electronic device and or key management system may automatically select the electronic key corresponding to any of multiple different locks when the recipient performs an unlocking action.

After the recipient performs the unlocking action the electronic device detects the unlocking action and sends use data indicating the attempted use of the electronic key to the key management system . The use data identifies the electronic key and includes description information about the attempted use. For example the electronic device may send an identifier for the electronic key. In addition or as an alternative the electronic device may send data that permits the electronic key to be identified such information identifying the recipient e.g. a phone number username or electronic address for the recipient and data identifying the lock or the resource .

The description information included in the use data can indicate various aspects of the circumstances or context of the attempted use. The description information can enable the key management server to determine whether one or more conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied. Examples of description information include for example a time of the attempted use information about persons accompanying the recipient and information about the current state of the lock or the resource .

In some implementations the computing device selects the description information to send based on the conditions on the electronic key being used. The description information can include information relevant to determining whether the conditions are met. In the illustrated example the conditions on use of the electronic key require the recipient to have a driver s license. Accordingly the electronic device may include in the description information evidence that the recipient has a driver s license for example by sending a driver s license number a photograph of the driver s license or a code extracted from the physical license. Such information about the recipient s driver s license may be stored within or otherwise accessible via the electronic device . For example a credential management application that stores or otherwise makes accessible information about various credentials that have been issued to the recipient including for example a driver s license may be executing on the electronic device . In such cases information about the recipient s driver s license may be accessed from or by the credential management application. In some implementations the key management application and the credential management application may be the same or components of a single application.

The key management system receives the use data over the network and determines whether the attempted use described by the use data satisfies the one or more conditions for the electronic key. In the illustrated example the key management system determines that the recipient has a driver s license for example by looking up the recipient s license status in a database. The key management system also determines that the electronic key has not expired for example by comparing the time of the attempted use with the expiration data specified by the conditions.

The key management system determines that the conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied. In response the key management system provides an access code capable of unlocking the lock. The access code can be provided to the electronic device over the network . The electronic device then provides the access code to the lock . The lock determines that the access code is valid and the lock opens to permit access to the resource . In some implementations the key management system provides the access code to the lock in addition to or instead of access data stored on the electronic device before the attempt to use the electronic key.

The access code may be transmitted as for example a numeric code a text sequence or data encoded in another form. For example the access code may be provided to the electronic device encoded as data that describes an image of a Quick Response QR code a bar code or another image. The electronic device may display the image and a scanner on the lock may read the image to obtain the access code . As another example the access code can be provided to the computing device as data that describes a signal such as a radio frequency signal infrared signal or an ultrasonic signal. The electronic device can output the signal to the lock to transmit the access code for example using near field communication NFC techniques an electromagnetic radiation source and or a loudspeaker.

In some implementations as described further below the key management system provides the access code to the lock over the network . In this manner the key management system may open the lock directly without relaying the access code to the electronic device . Further the lock may detect the unlocking action of the recipient and the lock may transmit use data to the key management system in response to detecting the unlocking action. Use data from the lock may be used by the key management system in addition to or instead of the use data from the electronic device .

In some implementations the conditions imposed on an electronic key may be enforced by logic executing on the electronic device . For example the electronic device may determine whether conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied and may prevent the electronic key from being used if the electronic device determines that the conditions are not satisfied or if the electronic device cannot determine that the conditions are satisfied. When the electronic device does not determine the conditions to be satisfied the electronic device may for example exclude the electronic key from being included in a list of electronic keys accessible by the recipient prevent transmission of an access code to the lock and or indicate to the recipient that access to the lock or use of the electronic key is denied.

In some implementations during an unlocking sequence involving an electronic key the key management system and the electronic device each determine whether one or more conditions on the electronic key are satisfied. For example the key management system and the electronic device may determine whether different conditions are satisfied. In addition or as an alternative the lock may determine whether one or more conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied. Unlocking may be disallowed when any of the key management system the electronic device and the lock determine that any condition on use of the electronic key is not satisfied.

There are many different examples of electronic social networking platforms. As described above Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace and Orkut are a few examples. But there are many others and it is reasonable to expect many more to be developed in the future.

Electronic social networking platforms frequently enable individual user identities e.g. users who have registered with a platform and or who have been assigned a unique or otherwise identifying identifier by the platform to establish connections with other user identities. These connections between user identities may reflect relationships between the underlying human users who correspond to the user identities. For example a connection between two user identities within an electronic social networking platform may reflect a social friendship e.g. developed through physical interaction in the real world and or through on line interaction in the cyber world or a professional relationship between the underlying human users who correspond to the user identities.

In some electronic social networking platforms a user identity may be able to unilaterally form a connection with another user identity. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a first user identity to form a connection to a second user identity simply by specifying a desire to form a connection to the second user identity and without requiring approval of the connection by the second user identity. Alternatively in other electronic social networking platforms the formation of connections between two user identities may be a bilateral process. For example in such electronic social networking platforms when a first user identity specifies a desire to form a connection to a second user identity the electronic social networking platform may establish the connection only after the second user identity approves the formation of the connection between the first user identity and the second user identity.

The connections formed between individual user identities within an electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user identities are represented by nodes and connections between user identities are represented by edges connecting the nodes. Such a graph of interconnected user identities may change dynamically in time as new user identities join and old user identities quit the electronic social networking platform and or as new connections are formed and old connections are dissolved. Proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be measured in terms of degrees of separation between the two user identities. For example proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be calculated as the fewest number of edges required to form a path between the two user identities within the graph representing the connections between user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

A user identity of an electronic social networking platform may form connections to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform thus forming a personal social network defined within the overall social networking platform. As used herein the social network of a particular entity refers to the connections and entities for the particular entity which form a subset of the entities and connections in the broader social networking platform which encompasses the user identities for all entities and the connections among them. In some cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined as the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected. Alternatively in other cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined to include a group of other user identities that are within a threshold number of degrees of separation of the particular user identity within the graph.

Electronic social networking platforms commonly facilitate sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between user identities and other user identities who are part of their social networks. In some implementations an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access more detailed profile information about the other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network than the electronic social networking platform allows the particular user identity to access about user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network. For example an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access information that identifies user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network but the electronic social networking platform may not allow the particular user identity to access this same information for user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network.

Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide communication conduits between a particular user identity and the other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network that the electronic social networking platform does not otherwise provide between the particular user identity and other user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network. In some implementations these communication conduits are used to transfer electronic key information such as data that enables an electronic key to operate or data notifying issuers and recipients of electronic keys about the status and usage of the electronic keys.

As discussed above in some cases an electronic social networking platform may define a particular user identity s social network as the group of other user identities to whom the user identity is directly connected. If this definition is applied within the electronic social networking platform illustrated in the social network for the user identity represented by node would be defined as the group of other user identities represented by nodes .

In addition to enabling a user identity to establish connections to other user identities and thereby form a social network some electronic social networking platforms may enable a particular user identity to divide the user identity s social network into one or more subsets of user identities who may for example share one or more characteristics of significance to the particular user identity. For example a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may wish to define subsets of user identities within the particular user identity s social network that reflect other user identities with whom the particular user identity has a familial relationship a professional relationship or a social relationship. For ease of reference such defined subsets of a particular user s social network may be referred to herein as Friendlists. 

In some implementations a user that issues an electronic key may select a Friendlist in order to issue the electronic key to each of multiple other users in the Friendlist. As an example a user may interact with a user interface element representing a Friendlist for family members to designate all of the user identities in the family members Friendlist to receive a particular electronic key.

In some implementations the key management system uses social network data to determine that a key issuer and key recipient have a particular relationship in the social networking platform. For example each time a key recipient attempts to use an electronic key the key management system may access data from the social networking platform to determine whether the key recipient and the key issuer currently have a required relationship such as a relationship that was in effect when the electronic key was issued. In some implementations if the connection between the key issuer and the key recipient in the social networking platform is severed or altered the electronic key may be automatically revoked or disabled. Data indicating connections in the social networking platform can also be used to determine whether conditions on an electronic key are satisfied. As another example a condition may require the key recipient to be designated in the social networking platform as one of a particular subset of the key issuer s friends in order to use an electronic key.

In addition to enabling user identities to establish connections to other user identities some electronic social networking platforms enable user identities to establish connections with other types of objects such as locations and events. For example some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record information about their hometowns current places of residence or places they have visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. by establishing connections to location objects within the electronic social networking platforms. In some implementations connections with various objects can be used by a key management system such as the key management system of to evaluate whether one or more conditions on use of an electronic key are satisfied. As an example a condition on an electronic key may permit use of the electronic key only while the recipient resides in a particular city. The key management system may obtain data about a connection indicating the residence of the recipient when use of the electronic key is attempted to determine whether the residence location satisfies the condition.

Furthermore some social networking platforms may enable user identities to establish connections with independent applications that leverage the social networking platforms for example by granting the independent applications authorization to access or extract data from the electronic social networking platform on their behalf. In some implementations users access key management functionality provided by an application that communicates with the social networking platform but that is distinct from the social networking platform. For example the application may be web based or may run locally on a client electronic device and be supported by an application server or other system e.g. a computing system that is not part of the social networking platform and is operated independently from the social networking platform . With authorization from users the key management system access data from the social networking platform to enable key management functionality for the users.

An edge that connects two nodes represents a connection that has been formed between the two objects that are represented by the connected nodes . For example the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes . For ease of reference such a connection between two user identity objects in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as a friend connection. Similarly the edge that connects node to node represents a connection such an endorsement between the user identity represented by node and the interest object represented by node . The edge that connects node to node represents a connection that has been formed between the user identity represented by node and the event represented by event object node .

Furthermore the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the location objects represented by nodes . Depending on the electronic social networking platform a user identity may be able to establish various different types of connections to location objects. For example in order to store a record of the user identity s hometown the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a hometown connection to a location object that represents the user identity s hometown. Additionally or alternatively in order to store a record of the user identity s current residence the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a current city connection to a location object that represents the user identity s current residence.

Moreover in order to store a record of a place the user identity visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a check in connection to a location object that represents a place that the user identity visited. In some cases an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually check in at a location. For instance a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location using a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone or tablet computer using global positioning system GPS and or map data available to the mobile computing device. As with other data stored by a social networking platform check in records can be accessed by key management systems to validate the use of an electronic key in accordance with the corresponding conditions on use of the electronic key if any have been imposed.

Electronic social networking platforms often enable user identities to maintain user profiles or other collections of data that include information about the user identities to whom they correspond. Such a profile for an individual user identity of an electronic social networking platform may include among other information information about the user identity s hometown current residence age gender relationship status educational background and or professional background. The key management system may use profile data e.g. a name a photograph etc. to identify potential recipients for an electronic key assisting key issuers to select appropriate recipients. Similarly the key management system may provide profile data of key issuers to key recipients assisting the key recipients to identify the user identities that issued the received keys. In addition the key management system can use profile data to determine whether conditions on an electronic key are satisfied. As an example a condition may require the key recipient to be a member of a particular community organization be above a particular age or have a particular educational background to use an electronic key. In some implementations the key management system obtains social networking profile data for the key recipient and evaluates the profile data to determine whether the condition is satisfied.

In some implementations a profile for a user identity may include one or more phone numbers electronic communication addresses e.g. electronic mail addresses Twitter feed address etc. or other identifiers. The key management system can obtain one or more electronic addresses or other identifiers from the profile of a key issuer or key recipient to communicate regarding an electronic key. For example the key management system may access an electronic address from a key recipient s profile and send to the electronic address a notification of transfer of an electronic key an access code that opens the corresponding lock and or other data that enables the recipient to use the electronic key. As another example the key management system may access an electronic address from a key issuer s profile and may send to the electronic address access data requesting the key issuer s approval for use or transfer an electronic key issued by the key issuer.

As illustrated in the communications system includes an electronic social networking platform that is accessible to a number of computing devices or other electronic devices including for example a laptop computer a tablet computer and a smartphone over a network . In addition the communications system also includes a computing system . The computing system may be external to the electronic social networking platform . As such the electronic social networking platform may be accessible to the computing system over the network . Additionally the computing system may be accessible to the electronic devices over the network .

The electronic social networking platform may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers configured to provide a service to one or more client devices e.g. electronic devices connected to electronic social networking platform over network . The one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features of an electronic social networking platform . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which the electronic social networking platform is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data. The electronic social networking platform also may provide an application programming interface API that enables other applications to interact with and extract data from the electronic social networking platform .

The electronic devices may be any of a number of different types of computing devices including for example mobile phones smartphones personal digital assistants navigation devices laptop tablet and netbook computers wearable computers and desktop computers including personal computers special purpose computers general purpose computers and or combinations of special purpose and general purpose computers. Each of the electronic devices typically may have internal or external storage components for storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. In particular the internal or external storage components for each of the electronic devices may store a client application for interfacing with the electronic social networking platform and or a client application for interfacing with the computing system . Additionally or alternatively the electronic devices may be configured to interface with the electronic social networking platform or the computing system without a specific client application using for example a web browser.

Each of the electronic devices also typically may include a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . Each of the electronic devices also usually may include one or more communication devices for sending and receiving data. One example of such communications devices is a modem. Other examples include antennas transceivers communications cards and other network adapters capable of transmitting and receiving data over a network e.g. the network through a wired or wireless data pathway.

The network may provide direct or indirect communication links between the electronic social networking platform the electronic devices and the computing system . Examples of the network include the Internet the World Wide Web wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs including wireless LANs WLANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanisms for carrying data.

The computing system may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers . The one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features ascribed herein to the computing system . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which the computing system is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data.

The computing system may host an application e.g. a key management application that leverages electronic social networking platform . As such the computing system may be configured to extract and process data from electronic social networking platform . For example the computing system may be configured to exploit the API to extract data from the electronic social networking platform . Among other features the computing system may be configured to extract data about multiple different user identities social networks including information identifying the members of each user identity s social network and profile data for the members of each user identity s social network including electronic addresses with which to contact the members of the social network.

In some implementations the electronic social networking platform may enable individual user identities to grant the computing system a token that defines permission levels related to data about the user identities social networks that computing system may access and extract from electronic social networking platform . For each individual user identity for which the computing system has a token the computing system may extract information about the user identity and the other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network. This information may include identifying information for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network as well as profile data for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network e.g. hometown current residence age or date of birth gender relationship status etc. . In addition or as an alternative the computing system may access any other data from the social networking platform associated with the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network for which access permission is granted including communications sent or received endorsements and other activities occurring within or described within the social networking platform.

In the computing system may represent the key management system of that receives user input issues electronic keys evaluates attempted uses of electronic keys approves uses that satisfy appropriate conditions and or sends access codes that open locks. The electronic devices may each perform the functions of the electronic devices of . That is any of the electronic devices may interact with a server system to issue or modify an electronic key as described for the electronic device . Further any of the electronic devices may receive electronic key data and access codes to open a lock with an electronic key as described above for the electronic device .

The electronic device is associated with an issuer of an electronic key. The electronic device is associated with a recipient of the electronic key. In the example of the issuer uses the electronic device to interact with the computing system and provide an electronic key to the recipient . The computing system acts as a key management server by carrying out transfer of the electronic key and storing data that permits the electronic key to operate. Thereafter the recipient may use the electronic key to open a lock or multiple different locks .

The issuer may place conditions on use of the electronic key by the recipient . When conditions are imposed on the electronic key the computing system evaluates each attempted use of the electronic key and permits the lock to open only when the conditions are satisfied. When the conditions for use of the electronic key are not satisfied the computing system may prevent the lock from opening.

In further detail the issuer uses the electronic device to issue an electronic key to a user to which the issuer is connected in the social networking platform . The electronic device runs an application e.g. a key management application that enables the issuer to provide the electronic key for example through interactions with the computing system . In some implementations a web page or other interface is used to establish an electronic key rather than an application running on the electronic device .

In some implementations the issuer may use any of multiple different electronic devices to manage electronic keys. For example the issuer may access the application through a mobile phone desktop computer tablet computer and or other electronic device by interacting with the application through the devices.

The computing system provides data to support the application running on the electronic device . As illustrated in the computing system is a third party system separate from the social networking platform . In some implementations the computing system is part of the social networking platform .

The computing system may extract information about the social networking connections of the issuer in the social networking platform . The computing system may provide the extracted social network data to the electronic device . For example the social network data may identify users who are connected to the issuer in the social networking platform .

The computing system may provide data identifying locks for which the issuer has authority to extend access permissions to others. In some implementations the computing system maintains records identifying locks controlled by various different users. For example users may register locks with the computing system and may validate ownership of or another form of right to control a particular lock.

In the example of the electronic device receives the social network data from the computing system and also receives lock data that identifies locks controlled by the issuer . The electronic device displays a list of members of the social network of the issuer . The electronic device also displays a list of locks controlled by the issuer . For example the electronic device may indicate members of the social network of the issuer and indicate locks controlled by the issuer using a user interface similar to the user interface of .

The issuer provides user input indicating selection of one or more members of the social network who should receive the electronic key. In some implementations only users who are connected to the issuer in the social networking platform are permitted to receive the electronic key from the issuer . In the illustrated example the recipient is connected to the issuer in the social networking platform . When selecting from among the users who are connected to the recipient in the social networking platform the issuer selects the recipient to receive the electronic key.

The issuer also provides user input indicating selection of one or more locks that the electronic key should open. In the example the issuer indicates that that the electronic key should open the lock which controls entry to the house of the issuer .

The application on the electronic device also enables the issuer to impose conditions on use of the electronic key. For example the electronic device may permit the issuer to select conditions for the electronic key using a user interface similar to the user interface of . Conditions may be defined to limit use to only a set of approved uses e.g. designating a whitelist of allowed uses . Conditions may additionally or alternatively be defined to allow all uses except a set of excluded uses e.g. designating a blacklist of excluded uses .

Examples of conditions on use of an electronic key include conditions that 1 limit a time during which the electronic key may be used 2 require the recipient to possess a particular credential or qualification 3 require approval from the key issuer for each use of the electronic key 4 limit a number of times that the electronic key may be used 5 require the recipient to be accompanied by another person e.g. a person selected from a defined list of persons or a person that has a particular qualification 6 require that when the electronic key is used the key issuer must be outside of or be located beyond a predetermined distance from a space to which the electronic key provides access 7 require that when the electronic key is used the key issuer must be within or be located within a predetermined distance from a space to which the electronic key provides access and 8 require the identity of the recipient to be confirmed at the time the electronic key is used e.g. through a password a biometric input or another form of authentication .

Based on the user input from the issuer the electronic device provides to the computing system data that identifies the recipient the lock and the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key. The computing system receives the data and issues the electronic key as requested by the issuer .

The computing system stores key data that identifies the recipient the lock the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key. The key data may be stored in electronic storage such as a database or other data storage system. Various examples of key data are shown in and described below.

The computing system may also store in the key data data that indicates access codes which are effective to open the lock or data from which the access codes may be generated. For example when the lock is registered with the application and determined to be under the control of the issuer the computing system may obtain a serial number or other lock identifier for the lock . Using the lock identifier the computing system may obtain access data indicating input data interactions and or communication formats that may be used to open the lock . The access data may be obtained from a manufacturer of the lock from the electronic device from communication with the lock directly over the network or through another device or through one or more other devices. As an example the lock may use encrypted communication a rolling code scheme and or other security measures. In this example the computing system may store an encryption key synchronization data for the rolling code scheme and one or more access codes accepted by the lock which permit the computing system to determine at any given time an access code that is effective to open the lock .

The computing system obtains an electronic address e.g. an electronic mail address a phone number a social networking username etc. for the recipient . For example the computing system may obtain the electronic address from a social networking user profile of the recipient in the social networking platform .

The computing system sends notification data to the electronic address for the recipient . The notification data indicates that the electronic key has been issued and may indicate the lock and conditions corresponding to the electronic key. For example the notification data may be received at the electronic device and the electronic device can display a user interface similar to the user interface of or user interface of .

In some implementations the notification data includes data that enables the recipient to use the electronic key in accordance with the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key. For example the notification data can include data that the electronic device can use to communicate with the lock and initiate an unlocking sequence. As described further below additional data from the computing system may be required to complete the unlocking sequence successfully. Each time the electronic key is used to unlock the lock the computing system may provide the additional data only when the computing system determines that the conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied.

In some implementations the electronic key is revocable by the issuer . For example the issuer may use the application running on the electronic device to revoke the electronic key at any time. The issuer may temporarily disable the electronic key for example causing the electronic key to be unusable by the recipient e.g. ineffective to open the lock for a specified amount of time or until the issuer re enables the electronic key. When the electronic key is disabled or revoked the computing system may transmit to the electronic address for the recipient data that indicates that the electronic key is not available for use. For example when the key has been disabled or revoked and the recipient attempts to use the electronic key to open the lock the computing system may indicate that access is denied and may indicate the status of the electronic key.

After the electronic key has been issued to the recipient the recipient may use the electronic device or another electronic device to open the lock . In some implementations the recipient may open the lock using any electronic device running the application that manages electronic keys.

Various interactions can occur among the electronic device the lock the computing system and other systems when opening the lock . Different interactions may occur for different electronic keys for example when different conditions are imposed on use of the electronic keys or when different locks are opened. One example of interactions for unlocking the lock is described below with respect to . Other examples of interactions for opening locks are described below with respect to .

The electronic device sends to the computing system use data about the attempted use of the electronic key by the recipient . The electronic device may send the use data in response to detecting an action of the user or receiving a communication from another device. For example transmission of use data may be triggered by receipt of a user input such as a user input selecting the electronic key from among a set of electronic keys issued to the recipient detection of a gesture made with the electronic device such as a tap twist or shake of the electronic device and or receipt of data from the lock such as receiving a lock identifier through direct communication with the lock .

The use data includes description information that describes the circumstances in which use of the electronic key is attempted. For example the use data may indicate an identifier for the recipient and or the electronic device data obtained from the lock by the electronic device e.g. via NFC data transfer techniques IR data transfer and or ultrasonic data transfer data indicating a time of the attempted use data identifying persons accompanying the recipient data confirming the identity of the recipient and other data. The use data may further include other data which enables the computing system to determine e.g. to select or generate an access code that is effective to open the lock .

In response to the use data the computing system accesses the stored key data for the electronic key. From the key data the computing system determines which conditions have been imposed on the electronic key if any. The computing system then determines whether the conditions are satisfied by the attempted use described by the use data .

The computing system may extract data from the social networking platform and use extracted social network data to determine whether the lock should be opened for the recipient . For example the computing system may access data indicating social networking connections in the social networking platform and determine whether the issuer and the recipient are still connected within the social networking platform. In some implementations the computing system permits the lock to be opened only when the social networking connection between the issuer and the recipient is still in force within the social networking platform.

The computing system may also use social network data to determine whether one or more conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied. For example when a condition for use of the electronic key requires the recipient to be at least a certain age the computing system may obtain the age of the recipient from social networking profile data of the recipient . As another example a condition for use of the electronic key may require the recipient to be accompanied by a family member. The computing system may determine based on the social network data whether a person that accompanies the recipient is designated in the social networking platform as being a family member of the recipient . Other social network data may be obtained and evaluated to determine whether conditions are satisfied.

The computing system may communicate with one or more other systems such as a data server to obtain additional data used to determine whether conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied. For example a condition for use of the electronic key may require the recipient to have a valid driver s license. The computing system may provide an identifier for the recipient to the data server and obtain from the data server data indicating whether or not the recipient has a valid driver s license.

The computing system may communicate with the electronic device to determine whether conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied. For example a condition for use of the electronic key may require approval of each use of the electronic key by the issuer . The computing system may send a request to the electronic device e.g. to an electronic address or account for the issuer requesting approval for the attempted use of the electronic key. After the issuer provides input indicating whether the attempted use is approved the electronic device sends to the computing system data indicating the approval or denial of authorization of the particular instance of use of the electronic key attempted by the recipient .

The computing system evaluates the use data against the key data. The computing system compares the information about the attempted use of the electronic key with the one or more conditions designated for the electronic key by the issuer . In some implementations the computing system uses extracted social network data data from the electronic device and data from other systems such as the data server to evaluate the attempted use of the electronic key and determine whether the conditions are satisfied.

In the illustrated example the computing system determines that the attempted use of the electronic key satisfies the associated conditions. As a result the computing system selects an access code that will open the lock . To select the access code the computing system may for example select a particular code from among a set of codes used in a rolling code scheme. The computing system may store or obtain data to synchronize access code usage in the rolling code scheme with the lock . Additionally or alternatively the computing system may generate as the access code an encrypted message using encryption decodable by the lock . In some implementations the access code may be valid only for a defined period of time.

In some implementations the computing system encodes the access code in a QR code a bar code an image or in another form. The access code is provided to the electronic device in the encoded form. The electronic device then provides the access code to the lock . In some implementations the lock includes a scanner or reader that can read a QR code bar code or other data displayed on the electronic device . The electronic device displays an image encoding the access code and the lock reads the access code from the displayed image. In some implementations the electronic device provides the access code to the lock through a WiFi connection a Bluetooth connection a wired connection or another means of communication. The electronic device may provide the access code to the lock through near field communication NFC techniques infrared transmission radio frequency transmission ultrasonic transmission or other outputs of the electronic device .

The lock obtains the access code from the electronic device and the lock evaluates the access code . The lock determines that the access code is valid and the lock opens in response. In some implementations as discussed below the lock receives the access code from the computing system over the network rather than through communication with the electronic device .

If the computing system determines that the conditions on use of the electronic key are not satisfied or if the computing system cannot verify that the conditions are satisfied the computing system does not send the access code . Instead the computing system may send a message indicating that the access to the lock is denied. Without the access code the recipient is unable to open the lock . To open the lock the recipient may be required to initiate the unlocking process again in a manner that satisfies the conditions imposed on the electronic key.

In some implementations the computing system identifies the electronic device and transmits the access code in response to determining that the electronic device is associated with the recipient . For example the use data may include a device identifier for the electronic device such as a phone number for a mobile phone device serial number media access control MAC address. The computing system compares the received device identifier with one or more stored device identifiers that have been registered with the application or the social networking platform . The computing system provides the access code to unlock the lock only when the electronic device is one of a set of devices registered as associated with the recipient . In this manner the recipient s mobile phone watch music player etc. may each act as a key to open any of the locks for which the recipient has been issued an electronic key.

In some implementations the computing system transmits the access code in response to verifying that the electronic device is controlled by the recipient in addition to or as an alternative to determining that the electronic device is associated with the recipient . For example the recipient may be required to provide a password for the application or the social networking platform and the password may be transmitted in the use data . An electronic cookie or session identifier may be provided to indicate that the recipient is logged in to the application or the social networking platform . In addition or as an alternative the electronic device or the lock may acquire biometric information from the recipient for example through a fingerprint scan a retina scan an iris scan voice analysis handwriting analysis a facial photograph or other techniques. With a password or biometric input the recipient may be authenticated and be permitted to use the electronic key using any suitable electronic device not only electronic devices previously registered with the application or the social networking platform .

Multi factor authentication may be used to verify that the recipient to which the electronic key is issued is the person opening the lock . The computing system may require a combination of at least two different forms of authentication such as a password and a fingerprint scan or the use of a registered electronic device and a password. The two or more forms of authentication can be selected from among biometric data other user inputs or interactions such as passwords or answers to security questions and device identifiers. Authentication requirements for recipients of electronic keys or for associated electronic devices may be implemented as conditions on particular keys or as general conditions for all electronic keys.

The same authentication procedures used to authenticate the recipient may be used to authenticate a person accompanying the recipient . For example when a condition requires that a designated person accompany the recipient in order for the electronic key to be used the designated person can be authenticated through a device identifier e.g. indicating the presence of the designated person s mobile phone or other device a user input e.g. a password for the designated person s social networking user identity in the social networking platform or biometric data for the designated person.

Authentication data e.g. user input fingerprint scan data device identifiers etc. that indicates the presence of a companion may be communicated to the computing system in various ways. Authentication data for the companion may be entered into the electronic device by the companion and the authentication data may be transmitted to the computing system by the electronic device . In addition or as an alternative the authentication data for the companion may be entered by the companion into a device different from the electronic device such as the companion s mobile phone or another device associated with the companion. The authentication data may be transmitted from the companion s mobile phone to the computing system over the network e.g. and not through the electronic device . In addition or as an alternative authentication data may be transmitted from the companion s mobile phone or other electronic device to the electronic device and the electronic device may send the authentication data to the computing system . The companion s mobile phone or other electronic device may communicate with the electronic device using near field communication techniques infrared transmissions ultrasonic transmissions Bluetooth and or other communication channels.

In addition or as an alternative authentication data for the companion may be entered into the lock e.g. through a fingerprint scanner of the lock a microphone of the lock a keypad of the lock etc. and the lock may transmit the authentication data to the computing system over the network without the authentication data being relayed through the electronic device or the companion s mobile phone or other electronic device.

In some implementations rather than the computing system sending an access code the computing system sends data that indicates approval for the electronic device to provide to the lock an access code that was stored on the electronic device before the use data was sent. In such implementations the use data may be a request for authorization to use e.g. transmit to the lock one or more access codes already stored on the electronic device . For example one or more access codes that open the lock or data from which the electronic device may generate such access codes may have been downloaded to the electronic device previously such as when the recipient was first notified that the electronic key was issued. The application that manages electronic keys running on the electronic device may limit use of the stored access codes disallowing transmission of the access codes to the lock unless approval is received from the computing system for each attempt to open the lock .

The lock responds to the message by sending a lock code . In some implementations the lock provides different lock codes at different times for example using a rolling code system. In some implementations the lock code includes data that uniquely identifies the lock .

In some implementations use of the electronic key is permitted only when the recipient is in proximity of the lock e.g. when the recipient is within a threshold distance of the lock . To enforce the proximity requirement the computing system can require the lock code to be obtained from the lock at the physical location or site of the lock at the time the use of the electronic key is attempted. Since various different lock codes can be used by a single lock the electronic device must obtain the lock code that is current at the time that use of the electronic key is attempted. The lock code may be obtainable only through short range communication with the lock that requires proximity to the lock e.g. communication via radio frequency electromagnetic waves infrared ultrasonic waves visible light etc. . As a result the electronic device obtains the lock code only when at least a minimum proximity to the lock has been achieved e.g. sufficient proximity to effect the short range communication . In some implementations the short range communication channel permits the electronic device to communicate with the lock and consequently permits use of the electronic key only when the electronic device is located within some distance of the lock e.g. within approximately 5 feet approximately 10 feet approximately 15 feet approximately 30 feet approximately 50 feet approximately 100 etc. .

The electronic device receives the lock code from the lock through proximity dependent communication. The electronic device sends the lock code to the computing system with the use data . The computing device determines that the lock code is valid and thus that the electronic device is in proximity to the lock . Based on determining that the electronic device is in proximity to the lock the computing device sends the access code to the electronic device . The electronic device transmits the access code to the lock and the lock opens.

If the computing system determines that the lock code is not valid or if the lock code is not provided by the electronic device the computing system may determine that the electronic device is not currently in proximity to the lock . Accordingly the computing system may not provide the access code which denies the recipient the ability to open the lock .

In some implementations other forms of verifying the proximity of the electronic device to the lock and thus the proximity of the recipient associated with the electronic device may be used. For example the electronic device can capture an image of the lock with a camera the electronic device can obtain global positioning system GPS or other location data the position of the electronic device can be triangulated with WiFi or cellular network access stations and so on.

In some implementations proximity to the lock is not required and the recipient may open the lock remotely through interactions with the computing device and the lock over the network .

The lock may send the use data in response to receiving the message and or in response to receiving the access code from the electronic device . The computing system may evaluate the use data from the lock as well as the use data from the electronic device to determine whether the conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied. In response to evaluating the use data the computing system may send a message confirming that the lock should open in response to the access code . In some implementations the lock opens only when the message from the computing system is received.

The computing system evaluates the use data and the lock code and determines whether the conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied. Unlike the example of responsive to a determination that the conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied the computing system sends the access code to the lock over the network e.g. without sending the access code to the electronic device thereby causing the lock to open. In the event that the computing system determines that the conditions on use of the electronic key are not satisfied the computing system may not send the access code to the lock .

Based on the data the lock sends use data to the computing system over the network thereby enabling the computing system to determine whether the conditions on use of the electronic key have been satisfied. After determining that the conditions have been satisfied the computing system sends the access code to the lock over the network thereby causing the lock to open. In some implementations no direct interaction between the electronic device and the computing system may be required at the time the electronic key is used. In the event that the computing system determines that the conditions have not been satisfied the computing system may not send the access code to the lock .

In response to detecting that the recipient performed an unlocking action the electronic device determines whether any conditions have been imposed on use of the electronic key. For each of the electronic keys issued to the recipient the electronic device may store key data that identifies i the lock corresponding to the electronic key ii the conditions on use of the electronic key if any and iii access codes that open the lock. The electronic device accesses the locally stored key data for the electronic key that opens the lock . The electronic device may receive user input from the recipient indicating that this electronic key should be used. In addition or as an alternative the electronic device may receive a lock identifier from the lock and may identify based on the lock identifier the electronic key that corresponds to the lock e.g. by selecting the electronic key from among multiple electronic keys for which key data is stored on the electronic device . The key data for the electronic key indicates whether any conditions are imposed on use of the electronic key and what those conditions are if any.

If no conditions have been imposed on use of the electronic key the electronic device transmits the access code to the lock in response to detecting the unlocking action performed by the recipient . If one or more conditions have been imposed on use of the electronic key the electronic device determines whether the conditions on the electronic key are satisfied without communicating with the computing system . For many conditions the electronic device may store or have access to data that indicates whether the conditions are satisfied. For example for a condition requiring use during a particular time period the electronic device can determine whether the current time e.g. the time of the unlocking action by the recipient is within the particular time period. Similarly for a condition requiring a valid driver s license a credential management application a credential file or other data may permit the electronic device to determine without communication with the computing system or even any other device whether the recipient possesses the credential.

In the example the electronic device determines that conditions on use of the electronic key are satisfied and the electronic device transmits the access code to the lock .

In the examples of other interactions between the lock the electronic device and the computing system may also occur. In addition interactions with other devices may occur. For example to indicate the presence of a companion accompanying the recipient the companion may enter a password directly to the electronic device . In addition or as an alternative the companion may enter the password directly to a different electronic device such as the companion s mobile phone and the companion s mobile phone may transmit the password to the computing system . In addition or as an alternative the companion s mobile phone may transmit the password to the electronic device which then sends the password to the computing system .

In some implementations multiple electronic keys may be required to be used together to open the lock . For example the recipient and another person may be required to both use their electronic keys using interactions as shown in any of the examples of and A E within a defined period of time of each other e.g. within 1 minute 5 minutes 30 minutes or 1 hour in order for the access code to be provided and the lock to be opened. Two or more users may interact with the same lock using the same electronic device or using different devices. For example two users may each tap the same lock with a different mobile phone where the mobile phones are registered to their respective social networking user identities. Based on identifiers for the mobile phones the identity and presence of both users at the lock can be verified.

The computing system receives data identifying a recipient for an electronic key provided by a user . The recipient is connected to the user in a social networking platform. In some implementations the computing system accesses from the social networking platform data identifying a set of multiple users that are connected to the user in the social networking platform. The computing system provides information e.g. a list identifying the set of users that are connected to the user. Based on input provided by the user the computing system receives data identifying one or more users selected from among the set of multiple users connected to the user in the social networking platform that should be recipients of the electronic key.

The data identifying the recipient may be based on input provided by a user through a social networking service. The social networking service may be an application or interface through which the user receives data from or provides data to the social networking platform. The social networking service may be provided by the computing system the social networking platform or another device or combinations thereof.

In some implementations the data identifies multiple users of the social networking platform as recipients for the electronic key. For example the user may individually select multiple users as recipients for an electronic key. As another example the user may designate a group of users defined within the social networking platform as a group of recipients for an electronic key. Recipients of the electronic key may be selected from among and may include users that are connected to the user in different e.g. separate or independent social networking platforms.

The computing system receives data identifying a lock that the electronic key opens . The data identifying the lock may be based on input provided by a user through a social networking service for example through an application or the social networking platform. In some implementations the computing system provides data indicating a set of locks for which the user has been determined to have access control. The computing system receives data identifying one or more locks selected from the set of locks for which the user has access control that the electronic key should open.

The lock can be a physical lock. For example the lock can have one or more physical elements that control physical access to a resource. The lock can secure a physical space such as a building a room the interior of a vehicle or a storage compartment. The lock can secure the function of a physical device for example limiting ignition of a vehicle s engine or mechanically limiting other functionality.

The computing system receives data indicating one or more conditions on use of the electronic key . The data indicating the one or more conditions may be based on input provided by a user through a social networking service.

Examples of conditions on use of an electronic key include conditions that 1 limit a time during which the electronic key may be used 2 require the recipient to possess a particular credential or qualification 3 require approval from the key issuer for each use of the electronic key 4 limit a number of times that the electronic key may be used 5 require the recipient to be accompanied by another person e.g. a person selected from a defined list of persons or a person that has a particular qualification 6 require the key issuer to be outside of or be located beyond a predetermined distance from a space to which the electronic key provides access when the key is used and 7 require the identity of the recipient to be confirmed at the time the electronic key is used e.g. through a password a biometric input or another form of authentication .

As an example a grandparent may issue an electronic key a grandchild that permits entry to the grandparent s house. To avoid potential mischief that the grandchild may cause when alone the grandparent may set a condition that grandchild must be accompanied by someone who has the qualification of being over age 18 and who has the additional qualification of being designated as a family member of the grandparent in the social networking platform.

As another example when a user goes on vacation the user may enlist the help of a neighbor to water his plants and feed his cat. To allow the neighbor to perform these tasks the user may issue to a neighbor an electronic key that opens the user s house. The user may specify the condition that the key may only be used during the vacation e.g. from August 2 to August 9. In addition in case the user comes home early and the neighbor s help is no longer needed the user may specify the condition that the electronic key may not be used when the user is home.

As another example a user who left something important at home may ask a friend to go pick it up. The user may issue to the friend an electronic key that unlocks the door to his home. Since entry to the home is needed for only a specific incident the user may specify the condition that the key is only valid for one use. Further the user may specify that the electronic key expires at the end of the day whether or not the electronic key has been used.

As another example a boss may issue an employee a key to an office or conference room. The boss may set the condition that the electronic key may be used at any time between 7 00 am and 6 00 pm on weekdays but that any use of the electronic key at other times requires specific approval from the boss.

The computing system determines that the user has authority to issue an electronic key to the lock . For example the computing system may determine that the lock is included in a list of locks registered to the user as being controlled by the user. As another example the computing system may determine that the lock and or a resource secured by the lock are owned by the user. As another example the computing system may determine that the owner of the lock and or a resource secured by the lock has delegated access control authority to the user.

The computing system stores key data that identifies the recipient of the electronic key the lock and the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key . In some implementations the computing system stores the key data in response to determining that the user has authority to issue the electronic key. The key data may be stored in electronic storage for example a table a database or another data structure. In some implementations the key data includes additional information about the lock for example one or more access codes that open the lock.

The computing system accesses an electronic address for the recipient . For example the computing system accesses the electronic address from profile data for the recipient from the social networking platform. The electronic address may be for example an e mail address a phone number a username for the recipient in the social networking platform or another address. Additionally or alternatively in some implementations the electronic address may be an account that the user has registered with a key management application executing on the computing system .

The computing system transmits data that indicates that the electronic key is transferred . The data may be transmitted to the electronic address for the recipient. For example the data may be transmitted by e mail short message service SMS text message social networking post or by another communication channel for example as an in application communication within a key management application.

The computing system transmits that data may enable the recipient to use the electronic key in accordance with the one or more conditions imposed by the user. The data may include configuration data that enables an electronic device associated with the recipient to communicate with the lock and initiate an unlocking sequence. In some implementations the computing system transmits an access code that may be used to open the lock e.g. successfully complete the unlocking sequence . The access code may be stored on an electronic device e.g. such as a mobile phone and used to open the lock either with or without further communication with the computing system . The data that enables use of the electronic key can indicate the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key.

In some implementations the computing system identifies a recipient based on the recipient s log in information when the recipient logs in to an application or to the social networking platform using an electronic device. The computing system determines that an electronic key has been issued to the recipient and in response transfers to the electronic device the data enabling the recipient to use the electronic key. Thereafter the electronic device may be used to open the lock.

In some implementations the electronic key may be revoked at any time by the user that owns control of the lock e.g. by the user that issues the electronic key . After the electronic key is issued the computing system may receive revocation data that indicates that the recipient should no longer have access to the electronic key. As a result the computing system can store key data that indicates that the electronic key is revoked. Or the computing system can delete the stored key data that indicated that the electronic key provided access to the lock. The computing system may also transmit to the electronic address of the recipient data indicating that access to the electronic key is terminated. Thereafter when the computing system receives use data indicating an attempted use of the electronic key the computing system may transmit notification data indicating that access to the lock is denied. The notification data may be transmitted to the electronic address for the recipient.

The computing system receives use data indicating an attempted use of the electronic key . The use data identifies the electronic key and includes description information that describes the attempted use. To identify the electronic key an identifier for the electronic key may be provided. In addition or as an alternative the use data can identify the recipient of the electronic key and the lock. In some implementations the use data is received from an electronic device for example from a mobile phone or other device associated with the recipient. In some implementations the use data is received from another electronic device such as the lock or a device connected to or otherwise associated the lock.

The description information can indicate for example the context or circumstances of the attempted use. For example the description information can indicate social networking user identities of users accompanying the recipient. The description information can include data authenticating the recipient and or the electronic device for example biometric data for the recipient a password of the recipient and or a device identifier for the electronic device.

The computing system accesses the stored key data . For example the computing system determines the conditions associated with use of the electronic key. The computing system evaluates the description information that describes the attempted use of the electronic key against the stored key data . Based on the evaluation the computing system determines if the attempted use satisfies the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key . In response to a determination that the attempted use satisfies the one or more conditions the computing system transmits to the electronic device an access code that unlocks the lock . If however the computing device determines that the attempted use does not satisfy the one or more conditions on use of the electronic key the computing system transmits data indicating that access to the lock is denied.

In some implementations the electronic device is a mobile phone associated with the recipient. The access code that unlocks the lock can be transmitted to the mobile phone associated with the recipient over a network and the mobile phone may transmit the access code to the lock directly e.g. according to techniques described above .

In some implementations the electronic device is the lock or a device in communication with the lock. When the recipient presents a key code to the lock the lock can provide the use data to query the computing system about whether the conditions on use of the key code are satisfied.

The evaluation performed by the computing system can include various operations depending on the conditions imposed on the electronic key. In some implementations the use data includes authentication data and the authentication data is compared with stored reference data e.g. previously stored information identifying information . The identity of the recipient may be confirmed based on the comparison satisfying an authentication condition.

In some implementations the computing system determines a time of the attempted use of the electronic key and compares the time to a time period indicated in the key data. When the attempted use is determined to be within the time period the computing system determines that a time condition is satisfied.

In some implementations the lock controls access to a physical space and the computing system determines whether the user that issued the electronic key is in a location other than the physical space. For example the computing system may obtain access logs for the lock and determine whether the user has opened the lock within a defined period of time such as 6 hours 1 day or 1 week. Additionally or alternatively the computing system may maintain its own access logs for the lock and determine whether the user has opened the lock within a defined period of time. If the user has not opened the lock within the defined period of time the user may be considered to be outside the physical space. As another example the computing system may obtain location information indicating the user s location from a check in status update post or other social network data from the social networking platform or from GPS data for the user. When the location information indicates that the user is away from the physical space the computing system may determine that a condition requiring the absence of the user is satisfied.

In some implementations the computing system determines that the recipient has a particular qualification e.g. a qualification other than having been issued the electronic key and being connected to the user in the social networking platform . The qualification may be a credential issued by a third party such as a driver s license issued by a government agency a degree issued by an educational institution or a job title given by an employer. The qualification may be a characteristic of a person such as age or height or a skill or an ability of a person such as an ability to speak a language. The computing system may access data indicating the recipient s qualifications from the social networking platform or other sources. In some implementations the computing system may access data indicating the recipient s qualifications from one or more electronic credentials maintained on the same electronic device on which the electronic key is maintained. When the recipient possesses the required qualification the computing system may determine that a qualification condition is satisfied.

In some implementations the computing system sends a request for approval of an attempted use to the user that issued the electronic key. When the computing system receives approval data indicating approval of the attempted use of the electronic key the computing system may determine that an approval condition is satisfied.

In some implementations the computing system determines a number of previous uses of the electronic key. The computing system may compare the number of previous uses with a predetermined maximum number of times that the recipient is permitted to use the electronic key as indicated by the stored key data. When the number of uses is less than the predetermined maximum number the computing system may determine that a limited use condition is satisfied.

In some implementations the computing system receives in the use data or in connection with the use data presence data that indicates the identity of a person who accompanies the recipient when use of the electronic key is attempted. The presence data may include a password of the person biometric input from the person a device identifier for a device associated with the person and or other authentication data for the person. The presence data may be entered directly into an electronic device associated with the recipient e.g. the recipient s mobile phone an electronic device associated with the person e.g. the person s mobile phone which is different from the recipient s mobile phone the lock or another device. Any of the devices to which the presence data is entered may transmit the presence data to the computing system . In addition or as an alternative the presence data may be passed between two or more of these devices and then to the computing system . For example the person s mobile phone may transmit the presence data to the recipient s mobile phone and the recipient s mobile phone may transmit the presence data to the computing device. As another example the person s mobile phone may transmit the presence data to lock and the lock may transmit the presence data to the computing device. The computing system determines whether the person satisfies one or more criteria for a companion required to accompany the recipient when using the electronic key. For example the computing system determines whether the person possesses one or more qualifications indicated in the key data or whether the person is one of a predetermined set of persons designated in the key data. When the person meets the one or more criteria the computing system may determine that a companion condition is satisfied.

As described above when the conditions on use of an electronic key are not met the computing system withholds the access code that opens the lock and transmits data indicating that access to the lock is denied. This may occur when the computing system determines that for example the attempted use is outside a time period designated in the key data authentication data does not match reference data for the recipient the recipient does not have a required qualification a maximum number of uses of the electronic key is exceeded the user that issued the key denies or fails to grant a required approval of use or the recipient is not accompanied by a required person.

The table includes an ID column that includes an identifier for each electronic key distinguishing the key from the other electronic keys. The table includes a recipient column that identifies the recipient of the electronic key. The electronic keys can be linked to the social networking user identities for the recipients. For example the social networking username or profile identifier may be stored in the recipient column . The table includes a lock column that identifies the lock or locks to which the various electronic keys provide access e.g. to open close or otherwise manipulate . The lock column may identify locks with any appropriate identifiers such as for example identification ID numbers or other unique identifiers assigned to the locks addresses for buildings room and floor numbers for rooms within a building or license plates numbers or VIN numbers for vehicles.

The table also includes columns that specify conditions on use of the electronic keys. A time conditions column indicates conditions that limit the time during which an electronic key can be used. A credential conditions column indicates credentials that the recipient must possess in order to use the electronic key. An authentication conditions column indicates measures required to authenticate the user in order to use the electronic key. An other conditions column indicates additional conditions that limit use of the electronic keys. A variety of additional or alternative conditions may be imposed on electronic keys as described above.

The user interface includes an approve control that the key issuer may interact with to approve the attempted use of the electronic key. When the approve control is selected the electronic device sends data indicating the approval to the computing system and in response the computing system transmits an approval code to the recipient enabling the recipient to open the lock. The user interface includes a deny control that the key issuer may select to deny access to the recipient. When the deny control is selected the electronic device sends data indicating the denial to the computing system . The computing system sends data to the recipient indicating that access is denied.

As indicated by the report the user issued an electronic key to John that unlocks the user s car the electronic key was last used yesterday and the electronic key is still active. Also as indicated by the report the user issued an electronic key to Sandra that unlocks the user s office the electronic key was last used at 11 23 am on the day the report was provided and the electronic key is still active. In addition the user issued an electronic key to Todd that unlocks the user s house the electronic key was last used three weeks ago and the electronic key is currently disabled. Finally the user issued a key to Lisa that unlocks the user s car the electronic key was never used and the electronic key has expired.

The report includes an update control and an exit control . The update control causes display of an interface that enables the user to update one or more of the electronic keys for example by adding removing or modifying conditions on use of one or more of the electronic keys. For instance viewing the report may cause the user to desire to increase or reduce the conditions imposed on the electronic keys. Invocation of update control may enable the user to do so. The exit control removes the report from display.

The computing system monitors actions of the recipient of the electronic key . For example the computing system monitors any types of actions of the recipient that are possible to monitor using the computing system . In this example the computing system may monitor attempts to use the electronic key and may monitor social networking actions of the recipient within the social networking platform. In monitoring attempted uses of the electronic key the computing system may monitor the frequency of use time of use number of uses and the particular circumstances of each use. In monitoring social networking actions of the recipient within the social networking platform the computing system may monitor connections made or broken by the recipient posts within the social networking platform or any other type action within the social networking platform.

The computing system compares the actions of the recipient of the electronic key with one or more rules that define at least one ramification for the electronic key that results from one or more specific actions of the recipient . For instance when the computing system monitors attempted uses of the electronic key by the recipient the computing system compares parameters of the use with the conditions on use of the electronic key to determine whether the recipient violated the conditions. When the computing system monitors social networking actions of the recipient within the social networking platform the computing system compares the social networking actions with rules that define when electronic keys should be modified based on social networking actions. The social networking actions may include actions related to connections within the social networking platform messages exchanged within the social networking platform e.g. posts and or any other types of actions that provide meaningful information relevant to an electronic key.

The computing system determines that the actions of the recipient of the electronic key have violated at least one of the one or more rules . For example when the computing system monitors attempted uses of the electronic key the computing system determines that the recipient violated the conditions of the transaction specified by the rule. In addition when the computing system monitors social networking actions of the recipient within the social networking platform the computing system determines that the recipient violated rules defining appropriate conduct for users who have received the electronic key. The rules may be generally applicable to all electronic keys or may be designated by the key issuer to apply to a particular electronic key.

Based on the determination that the actions of the recipient of the electronic key have violated at least one of the one or more rules the computing system determines a ramification for the electronic key defined by the at least one of the one or more rules . For instance the computing system determines a ramification that revokes the electronic key or modifies the electronic key. The electronic key can be modified by adding or modifying a condition on use of the electronic key. The ramification may be selected from a record in a database pertaining to the rule violated.

The computing system modifies the electronic key in accordance with the determined ramification . For example the computing system revokes the electronic key temporarily disables the electronic key e.g. disables the electronic key for a predetermined period of time reduces level of access attainable using the electronic key adds or modifies one or more conditions limiting use of the electronic key and or places other restrictions on the electronic key. The electronic key may still be available for use but with the ramification applied.

As an example the computing system may monitor actions of the recipient and determine that a number of unsuccessful attempts to use the electronic key have occurred during a time period. The computing system may compare the number of unsuccessful attempts to a threshold number of unsuccessful attempts indicated in a rule and determine that the number exceeds the threshold number. Based on the comparison the computing system may determine that the actions have violated the rule and the computing system may determine that the ramification associated with violating the rule is for the electronic key to be disabled for seven days. The computing system may also determine that the ramification includes applying a new condition on use of the electronic key requiring that the key issuer subsequently approve each use of the electronic key. The computing system may then modify stored key data to cause the electronic key to be disabled for seven days and for the new condition to be applied.

The alert also includes a reconnect control a reinstate request control and an exit control . The reconnect control causes a connection request message to be sent from the Daughter User to the Father User. If the Father User accepts the connection request the Father User and the Daughter User become reconnected within the social networking platform and the electronic key from the Father User to the Daughter User is restored by the computing system .

The reinstate request control causes a message to be sent to the Father User asking the Father User to reinstate the electronic key despite the connection between the Father User and the Daughter User being severed in the social networking platform. The Father User may agree to reinstate the electronic key which causes the computing system to reactivate the electronic key shared by the Father User with the Daughter User. The Father User may decline to reinstate the electronic key which causes the computing system to maintain the electronic key previously shared by the Father User with the Daughter User in a revoked or disabled state. The exit control removes the alert from display and allows the electronic key previously shared by the Father User with the Daughter User to remain in a revoked or disabled state.

While the electronic keys have been described as providing access to physical locks the techniques described may be used to provide access to any appropriate security or authentication measure. For example the techniques can be used to issue electronic keys to access computer systems computer network resources software systems particular files or any other secured resource.

Further while emphasis has been placed on using electronic keys to open corresponding locks the electronic keys may equally be configured to lock the corresponding locks. Locking a lock or otherwise changing the status of a lock using an electronic key may be limited in accordance with the conditions set by the issuer of the electronic key.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Elements of a computer include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

