---

title: Curved body and wearable device therewith
abstract: A wearable device may include: a strap including a substantially polygonal opening and a buckle formed at one end thereof; a buckle part configured to fasten opposite ends of the strap to each other by binding the opposite ends of the strap; and a body configured to be coupled to the opening by being fitted into the opening or decoupled from the opening. The body may include a front surface and a rear surface, and a display having a substantially polygonal shape when viewed from the top on the front surface, and a biometric sensor disposed on the rear surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639119&OS=09639119&RS=09639119
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09639119
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150223
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to an application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Feb. 22 2014 and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0020974 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Methods for a user to carry a portable electronic device include carrying a the device in the user s pocket or bag holding the device in the user s hand or carrying the device by wearing it on a predetermined location of a human body. A wearable device can be worn on various parts of the human body and used.

4. A clip type wearable device may be worn by being clipped to a human body clothing or user s belongs and

5. There are many other methods for attaching a wearable device to a human body belongs or an accessory directly or indirectly.

In addition a wearable device may include a body and a wearing part a strap or band and may be worn on various parts of a human body according to a configuration of the wearing part. The wearable device may be one of the following structures 

1. a structure in which the body and the wearing part are integrally formed with each other and inseparable from each other 

2. a structure in which the body and the wearing part are separable from each other and thus are changeable.

Currently available wearable devices have several deficiencies. For example the body of the wearable device is mostly designed regardless of design aspects and the exterior of the body and the inner wearing part are mostly formed according to the same flat curved shape or a basic design shape.

Such a shape is not appropriate to the wearable device and acts as a factor delimiting functions and design of the wearable device.

In addition where the wearable device has the body and the wearing part are integrally formed with each other the body and the wearing part are not changeable and thus there is a limitation to providing various designs and customized functions. Furthermore if the body and the wearing part are separable from each other and changeable it would be possible to customize the wearable device according to a user s taste in view of an exterior design or function. However there is a contradiction between the degree of fastening and convenience in removing the body and deterioration of the wearing part caused by an individual using pattern or frequent replacement may cause a serious problem in the fixing stability of the device.

In an aspect of the present disclosure a wearable device is provided which has a body exterior configured to be easy to wear and to smoothly perform functions and that facilitates housing electronic parts in the body of the device.

In another aspect of the present disclosure a wearable device that is easy for a user to wear on the user s wrist is provided.

Another aspect of the present disclosure may be to provide a wearable device that includes a removable body and includes a wearing part that may be changed according to a user s taste.

Another aspect of the present disclosure may be to provide a wearable device in which a place where a biometric sensor is mounted is configured to easily contact the skin of a human body and where the biometric sensor can be used as a personal auxiliary medical device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a wearable device which provides coupling and decoupling directions of a body and thus can prevent or inhibit the body from being decoupled when being worn on a wrist.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a wearable device may include a strap having a first end and a second end. The strap may include a substantially polygonal opening and a buckle formed at one of the first and second ends of the strap. A buckle part may be configured to fasten the first and second ends of the strap to each other by binding the opposite ends i.e. the first and second ends of the strap. A body may be configured to be coupled to the opening by being fitted into the opening or decoupled from the opening. The body may include a front surface and a rear surface and may also include a display having a substantially polygonal shape when viewed from the top on the front surface. A biometric sensor may be disposed on the rear surface of the body.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a wearable device may includes a body housing a curved display disposed on a front surface of the body housing a curved battery layered under the curved display and a curved body including one or a plurality of substrates arranged between the curved battery and the rear surface of the body housing.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wearable device may include a wearing part that is changeable or replaceable e.g. decoupled from the body such that a user may select a wearing part according to the user s taste. Thus the user can select a wearing part reflecting consumer s personality.

Another aspect of the present disclosure may be to provide a wearable device provided with a wearing structure that is able to respond to various wrist curvatures. For example the a wearing part may able to respond to various wrist curvatures thereby improving wearability. The wearable device may include a body housing a curved display disposed on a front surface of the body housing a curved battery layered under the curved display and a curved body comprising at least one substrate arranged between the curved battery and the rear surface of the body housing.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the wearable device may include a wearable part and a body that may be coupled or decoupled from one another by moving the wearable part and the body relative to one another in either a coupling or decoupling direction. The coupling and decoupling directions may be such that the body is inhibited from being inadvertently separated from the wrist and is stably worn on the user s wrist.

These and other aspects of the present disclosure will be more fully described with reference to the appended drawings.

The term substantially used in the embodiments of present disclosure is used to imply that a cited characteristic parameter or value is not necessarily achieved exactly and that an allowable error a measurement error a limitation of measurement accuracy a deviation or change including other elements known to a person skilled in the art and an effect that a characteristic is to provide are not excluded.

Although specific embodiments of the present disclosure are illustrated in the drawings and relevant detailed descriptions are provided various changes can be made and various embodiments may be provided. Accordingly various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the specific embodiments and should be construed as including all changes equivalents or substitutes included in the ideas and technological scopes of embodiments of the present disclosure. In the explanation of the drawings similar reference numerals are used for similar elements.

The terms include or may include used in the embodiments of the present disclosure indicate the presence of disclosed corresponding functions operations elements and the like and do not limit additional one or more functions operations elements and the like. In addition it should be understood that the terms include or have used in the embodiments of the present disclosure are to indicate the presence of features numbers steps operations elements parts or a combination thereof described in the specifications and do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features numbers steps operations elements parts or a combination thereof.

The term or used in the embodiments of the present disclosure includes any and all combinations of words enumerated with it. For example A or B means including A including B or including both A and B.

Although the terms such as first and second used in the various embodiments of the present disclosure may modify various elements of the various embodiments these terms do not limit the corresponding elements. For example these terms do not limit an order and or importance of the corresponding elements. These terms may be used for the purpose of distinguishing one element from another element. For example a first user device and a second user device all indicate user devices and may indicate different user devices. For example a first element may be named a second element without departing from the scope of right of the various embodiments of the present invention and similarly a second element may be named a first element.

It will be understood that when an element is mentioned as being connected or coupled to another element the element may be directly connected or coupled to another element and there may be an intervening element between the element and another element. To the contrary it will be understood that when an element is mentioned as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there is no intervening element between the element and another element.

The terms used in the various embodiments of the present disclosure are for the purpose of describing specific embodiments only and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

All of the terms used herein including technical or scientific terms have the same meanings as those generally understood by an ordinary skilled person in the related art unless they are defined otherwise. The terms defined in a generally used dictionary should be interpreted as having the same meanings as the contextual meanings of the relevant technology and should not be interpreted as having ideal or exaggerated meanings unless they are clearly defined in the various embodiments.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device that is equipped with a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smartphone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical machine a camera or a wearable device e.g. a head mounted device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothing an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory e.g. an accessory e.g. a heart monitor configured to work with an application of the electronic device electronic tattoos or a smartwatch .

According to an embodiment the electronic device may be a smart home appliance that is equipped with a communication function. For example the smart home appliance may include at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player a stereo a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Goggle TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder or an electronic album.

According to an embodiment the electronic device may include at least one of various medical machines for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computerized Tomography CT a tomograph an ultrasound machine and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an automotive infotainment device electronic equipment for ship for example a navigation equipment for ship a gyro compass and the like avionics a security device or an industrial or home robot.

According to an embodiment the electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building a structure including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various measurement devices for example water power gas radio waves and the like . The electronic device according to various embodiment of the present disclosure may be one or a combination of one or more of the above mentioned devices. In addition it is obvious to an ordinary skilled person in the related art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above mentioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments will be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in the various embodiments may refer to a person who uses the electronic device or a device that uses the electronic device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device .

The bus A may be a circuit which connects the above described elements with one another and transmits communication signals for example a control message between the above described elements.

The processor A may receive instructions from the other elements for example the memory A the input and output interface A the display A the communication interface A or the sensor module A via the bus A decipher the instructions and perform calculation or data processing according to the deciphered instructions.

The memory A may store instructions or data which is received from or generated by the processor A or the other elements for example the input and output interface A the display A the communication interface A the sensor module A and the like . For example the memory A may include programming modules such as a kernel A middleware A an Application Programming Interface API A an application A and the like. Each of the above described programming modules may be configured by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more of them.

The kernel A may control or manage system resources for example the bus A the processor A the memory A and the like which are used for performing operations or functions implemented in the other programming modules for example the middleware A the API A or the application A. In addition the kernel A may provide an interface for allowing the middleware A the API A or the application A to access an individual element of the electronic device A and control or manage the element.

The middleware A may serve as an intermediary to allow the API A or the application A to communicate with the kernel A and exchange data with the kernel A. In addition the middleware A may perform controlling for example scheduling or load balancing with respect to work requests received from the application A for example by giving priority to use the system resources of the electronic device for example the bus A the processor A the memory A and the like to at least one of the applications A.

The API A may be an interface for allowing the application A to control a function provided by the kernel A or the middleware A and for example may include at least one interface or function for example instructions for controlling a file controlling a window processing an image and or controlling a text.

According to various embodiments the application A may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an email application a calendar application a notification application a health care application for example an application for measuring exercise or a blood sugar an environment information application for example an application for providing information on atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature and the like. Additionally or alternatively the application A may be an application related to information exchange between the electronic device A and an external electronic device for example an electronic device A or an electronic device A . For example the application related to the information exchange may include a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of relaying notification information generated by other applications of the electronic device A for example the SMS MMS application the email application the health care application the environment information application and the like to the external electronic device for example the electronic device A or the electronic device A . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from the external electronic device for example the electronic device A or the electronic device A and may provide the same to the user. For example the device management application may manage for example install delete or update a function regarding at least part of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device A or the electronic device A communicating with the electronic device A for example turning on off the external electronic device or some parts or adjusting brightness of a display an application operating in the external electronic device or a service provided by the external electronic device e.g. a calling service or a message service .

According to various embodiments the application A may include an application specified according to an attribute for example a kind of an electronic device of the external electronic device for example the electronic device A or the electronic device A . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application A may include an application related to music replay. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application A may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application A may include at least one of an application specified by the electronic device A or an application received from the external electronic device for example a server A the electronic device A or the electronic device A .

The input and output interface A may transmit instructions or data input by a user through a sensor for example an acceleration sensor or a gyro sensor or an input device for example a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor A the memory A or the communication interface A through the bus A for example. For example the input and output interface A may provide data on a user s touch input through a touch screen to the processor A. In addition the input and output interface A may output instructions or data received from the processor A the memory A the communication interface A or the sensor module A through the bus A through an output device for example a speaker or a display . For example the input and output interface A may output voice data processed through the processor A to the user through a speaker.

The display may display a variety of information for example multimedia data text data and the like for the user.

The communication interface A may connect communication between the electronic device A and the external device for example the electronic device A the electronic device A or the server A . For example the communication interface A may support network communication A for example the Internet a Local Area Network LAN A Wire Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS and the like and short distance communication A for example Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC or wired communication for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 or POTS . According to an embodiment a protocol for communicating between the electronic device A and the external device for example a short distance communication protocol a network communication protocol or a wired communication protocol may be supported in at least one of the API A or the middleware A. The electronic device A A may be the same device as the electronic device A for example the same type of device or a different device for example a different type of device .

The sensor module A may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert measured or detected information into electric signals. The sensor module A may include at least one of a gesture sensor a gyro sensor a barometric pressure sensor a magnetic sensor an acceleration sensor a grip sensor a proximity sensor a color sensor for example Red Green Blue RGB sensor a biosensor a temperature humidity sensor an illumination sensor and a Ultraviolet UV sensor.

Additionally or alternatively the sensor module A may include an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown an infrared ray IR sensor an iris sensor not shown a fingerprint sensor and the like.

Referring to a 3 dimensional X Y Z orthogonal coordinate system is illustrated. Z axis is a vertical direction and means an up and down direction thickness direction of the body X axis is a first horizontal direction and means a widthwise direction of the body and Y axis is a second horizontal direction perpendicular to the first horizontal direction and means a lengthwise direction of the body .

The wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is a user device which is worn on a human body and may be an electronic device that is relatively easy to wear on a wrist like a watch or bracelet a communication device or an auxiliary medical device. However the wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the device that is worn on a wrist. For example the wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be equally applied to any part of the human body where a curvature exists. For example examples of a part of the human body where a curvature exists may be a wrist an arm an ankle or the like. In addition the wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be stably worn on various parts of the body when the wearing part is configured in various ways.

The wearable device according to various embodiments of the present invention may include the body function device part and the wearing part including a band or strap . The body may be configured to be forcibly coupled to or decoupled from the wearing part . The body may include a display for externally displaying a variety of information and a press key e.g. a side key k a sensor s a touch input part and the like for inputting a variety of information. The body may formed in a bar shape and may also have a curvature. Specifically the body may have a shape extending in the lengthwise direction Y axis direction and may have a curvature.

The wearing part may be made of an elastic material and allows the body to be worn on a human body stably and brings the body into close contact with the skin of the human body. In addition since the wearing part is changeable the wearing part may function as an accessory reflecting user s personality or taste. However a part seating part of the wearing part which is coupled to the body may be configured to be elastically deformable and a wearing surface part which is in close contact with the human body may not be made of an elastic material. The wearing part may be provided with an opening which is opened in the up and down directions and may includes a seating part which is elastically deformable along a circumference of the opening . The wearing part includes an elastic member seating part at least around the opening and when the body is coupled to the wearing part at least part of the seating part including the elastic member may be fitted into or mated with a seating recess which extends along a side surface of the body .

The opening is an open space into which the body is fitted and has a shape enclosed by the seating part . The opening according to the present embodiment may be formed in a substantially rectangular shape having a thickness. The opening may have a substantially rectangular shape when viewed from the top having the side in a first direction longer than the side in the direction perpendicular to the first direction. In addition the opening includes at least one linear portion enclosing the opening . Two linear portions may be provided and configured in parallel with each other facing each other. The wearing part may include a buckle part for fastening both ends of the wearing part by binding the ends. The wearing part may be configured to include a band extending in the first direction Y axis direction . The band includes an opening formed on a part thereof and includes a buckle part formed at one end thereof and a fastening part formed at the other end to be removably fastened to the buckle part. In addition the curved display may be configured to have a substantially rectangular shape smaller than the opening when viewed from the top.

In addition the wearable device according to embodiments of the present disclosure may include a removable structure which enables the body to be mechanically coupled decoupled and the removable structure includes a seating recess provided on the body and the opening and the seating part provided on the wearing part .

The wearable device may include the seating recess formed along the circumference of the side surface of the surfaces of a body housing and the seating part formed on the wearing part to be fitted into the seating recess . After the body is fitted into the seating part the body can be more securely fixed to the wearing part by other means not shown .

The body may be curved and hereinafter is referred to as a curved body. However it is to be understood that the body is not limited to a curved configuration and may instead for example be generally planar flat and or rectangular. The curved body will be explained in detail below. The seating part is made of an elastic material and may be elastically deformable the curved body is removable from the seating part . In addition due to the shape of the curved body and the removable structure the body may be forcedly coupled to or decoupled from the wearing part with directions.

The wearing part may be changeable and may be changed according to a user s taste when the wearing part . The wearing part may be implemented in various designs or colors such that the wearing part may be regarded as an accessory reflecting the user s own personality and tastes.

The curved body according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is formed in a bar shape such as a rectangular shape extends in a curved direction and has an elongated shape while having a curvature. The curved body may include a body housing and a display which may be mounted in the body housing . The body housing includes a front surface a rear surface and a side surface and the front surface and the rear surface each has a curvature. The front surface is a surface where the display is mounted and the rear surface is a wearing surface which is in contact with a human body. The front surface has a first curvature and the rear surface has a second curvature. The first and second curvatures may be determined to facilitate improved consumer wearability by having a shape or configuration to ergonomically correspond to various consumers wrists. In the present embodiment the first curvature is smaller than the second curvature. In other words the front surface of the curved body according to the present embodiment has the display mounted therein and thus should make it easy for a user to view a displayed screen and the rear surface should make the user feel good when the user wears the device on user s wrist and has a sensor mounted thereon and thus should provide a shape closely contacting user s wrist.

The curved body may be configured to gradually become thinner from the center toward the opposite sides thereof. The curved body may be relatively thick on the center and may gradually become thinner toward the sides. In addition although the rear surface has the second curvature in the above described embodiment the rear surface may be a substantially flat surface without a curvature.

The exterior structure of the curved body can ergonomically improve a sensation that a user may feel when wearing the device and can improve compatibility in response to various consumers wrists. The curved body may be provided with the curved display on the front surface and may include a skin contact surface provided with a sensor an interface of the sensor is seen in on the rear surface so that the degree of freedom of the exterior design can be maximized and optimal sensor performance can be provided to all of the users. In particular the rear surface of the curved body which is the skin contact surface may be configured as a nearly flat surface in comparison to the free shape of the exterior design of the curved body and may have the sensor s arranged thereon to respond to all of the various body curvatures appropriately.

In addition the curved body housing in the present embodiment may have a sensor interface SW formed on the rear surface thereof which is in close contact with user s skin and has the display a touch input part a button key a charging terminal and an information interface formed on a surface other than the skin contact surface bottom surface of the body housing .

The display is formed in a shape reflecting a curved shape of the human body and may be formed in a flat shape Liquid Crystal Display LCD Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED or a curved shape flexible OLED . Although the display is provided in the present embodiment is described as being curved the display may instead be configured as a flat display.

A seating recess may be formed on the side surface of the curved body housing . The seating recess extends along the side surface of the curved body housing . An exterior side surface of the side surfaces of the curved body housing that is seen by the user has a curvature. The seating recess has the same curvature as the first curvature of the front surface of the curved body housing . However the curvature of the seating recess may be the same as the first curvature but may be larger or smaller than the first curvature since men and woman have various wrist curvatures. In the curvature of the seating recess is the same as the first curvature. As will be described the seating recess includes a top surface curvature and a bottom surface curvature in some section. The bottom surface curvature may vary to respond to various wrist curvatures. The top surface curvature and the bottom surface curvature of the seating recess may vary in a boundary area with the body according to a wrist curvature of a user who wears the wearable device.

In the above described embodiment the seating recess has a curvature and a top surface and a bottom surface of the seating recess have the same curvature. The seating recess formed on the outside surface of the body housing may extend to have the curvature with the same width and the same thickness and thus the top surface and the bottom surface of the seating recess have the same curvature as the first curvature.

Arrangement of electronic parts mounted in the curved body will be explained with reference to . In the present embodiment a curved battery is mounted under the display in a layered structure such that the curved body gradually becomes thinner from the center toward the opposite sides. That is the curved body has the curved display the curved battery and substrates P P layered therein one on another.

In the present embodiment the curved body may be configured such that an exterior surface which is easily seen with user s eyes for example a display screen and a contact surface which is worn on a human body and is in close contact with a skin a rear surface of the body housing have different curvatures and has an optimum layered structure of electronic parts mounted therein. The curved body according to the present embodiment is provided with the display having the highest degree of freedom of manufacturing a curved surface on the exterior surface having the largest curvature and has the battery installed inside the display . In this case the battery has a curved shape and has the same curvature as the first curvature. The battery may be mounted with reference to the center of the curved display and facilitates providing or guaranteeing mounting spaces that are formed at both ends of the battery. The mounting spaces may be used as spaces for compensating for reduction in the curvature of the skin contact surface rear surface . The above described mounting structure results in reduction in the thickness at the both ends in comparison to the center of the curved body thereby achieving a good design and minimizing a step height which may be generated with respect to the wearing part .

Hereinafter the arrangement of various electronic parts and substrates mounted in the curved body will be explained.

The curved battery a plurality of electronic parts s m and c and a plurality of substrates P P and P are arranged in the curved body . The curved display the curved battery and the plurality of substrates P P and P are arranged in the curved body in a vertically layered structure. In particular the battery according to the present embodiment is disposed on an intermediate layer between the curved display and the substrate P. This structure is to serve as a safety device for preventing a low temperature burn caused by heat emitted from the battery and minimizing any damage to the user caused by explosion of the battery and may be a vertically layered structure.

The curved body includes the curved body housing and an inner bracket . The curved body forms a single body by coupling the inner bracket to the curved body housing . The body housing and the inner bracket may be independently manufactured and coupled to each other. However the inner bracket may be included in the body housing . The curved display may be attached to the front surface of the body housing by an adhesive tape double sided waterproof tape and the inner bracket may be received in and fixed to the body housing . The inner bracket may receive the curved battery which is layered under the curved display and one or the plurality of substrates P P and P arranged between the front surface and the rear surface of the body housing .

In addition according to the present embodiment the plurality of substrates P P and P may be arranged in the inner space of the body housing specifically in the inner bracket . In this case a segmental articular structure substrate may be applied thereby improving efficiency of mounting of the electronic parts. The above mentioned segmental structure substrate appropriately provides rigid substrates P P and P and flexible substrates F and F to sections where the substrates are needed thereby smoothly implementing a curved design and may have the electronic parts directly arranged in respective segmental sections separately according to a required condition thereby improving performance of the electronic device. For example a part vulnerable to a noise and a noise generating part may be arranged on separate substrates and a part vulnerable to a shock and a shock generating part may be arranged on separate substrates. Such arrangement of the electronic parts may naturally separate a noise generating section and a noise sensitive section from each other and may block a vibration shock transmitted through the rigid substrates P P and P in the section of the flexible substrates F and F thereby achieving a design for optimizing electrical performance of the electronic device and durability. In the future a curved rigid or flexible substrate will be applicable instead of the above described rigid substrate thanks to the technology development. In the above described substrate segmental structure a non contact sensor such as a gyro sensor an acceleration sensor and or other optical sensors may be further provided in addition to the basic parts related to communication or input and output.

The plurality of substrates may include the plurality of rigid substrates for example Printed Circuit Boards PCBs and the plurality of flexible substrates PCBs and the rigid substrates P P and P are substrates where various electronic parts are mounted and the electronic parts may be mounted on both the top surface and the bottom surface of each of the rigid substrates P P and P. In three rigid substrates are mounted and are referred to as a first substrate P a second substrate P and a third substrate P. The first substrate P is disposed in the center the second substrate P is disposed on the right of the first substrate P and the third substrate P is disposed on the left of the first substrate P. A substrate connecting the first substrate P and the second substrate P is referred to as a first flexible substrate F and a substrate connecting the first substrate P and the third substrate P is referred to as a second flexible substrate F. The first second and third substrates P P and P and the first and second flexible substrates F and F are connected with one another thereby configuring the segmental substrate.

In addition when various electronic parts are arranged on the first second and third substrates P P and P parts vulnerable to a noise and noise generating parts may be arranged on separate substrates and parts vulnerable to a shock and shock generating parts may be arranged on separate substrates.

For example out of the electronic parts mounted on the substrates a part vulnerable to a noise PAM and a noise generating part AP CP may be separately arranged on the first and second rigid substrates P and P respectively and a part vulnerable to a shock a BGA part such as AP and CP and a shock generating part for example a vibrator or a vibration motor may be separately mounted on the second and third substrates P and P respectively. Such inner arrangement of the electronic parts can naturally separate a noise generating section and a noise sensitive section from each other and block a vibration shock transmitted through the rigid substrates in the flexible substrate section thereby achieving a design for optimizing electrical performance of the electronic device and durability.

In addition at least one of the rigid substrates disposed on the rear surface of the body housing may be horizontally placed or may be slantingly placed. The first substrate P is disposed in the center and has a first sensor s which is exposed from the rear surface of the body housing and is in close contact with a skin of a human body to acquire a variety of information on the human body disposed thereon. Therefore the first substrate P should be placed horizontally along with the first sensor s . The first sensor s may be exposed from the rear surface of the body housing and may be disposed on a location where the first sensor s is in the closest contact with the skin. That is the first sensor s may be horizontally disposed substantially on the center of the rear surface of the body housing. The first sensor s may be mounted on the rear surface of the first substrate P and a sensor interface sensor interface window may further be provided. In addition even when a PCB is mounted slantingly with respect to the exterior surface of the housing a balance can be maintained by using an interposer between the PCB and the first sensor. The first sensor s may have the sensor interface window exposed from the rear surface of the body and may be horizontally disposed. The sensor interface window may be provided on the sensor or may be attached to the exterior of the body housing. For example the first sensor s may be a Heart Rate Monitor HRM or a vein sensor which can acquire information from user s skin or body.

Additionally the first sensor s which is exposed from the rear surface of the body housing may further include a protrusion protruding toward the rear surface while enclosing the circumference of the first sensor s with a predetermined thickness. The protrusion may make the sensor interface for example the sensor interface window SW exposed and more brought into close contact with the skin. The sensor interface SW is located on a flat surface of the rear surface and the flat surface is located on the center.

In the present embodiment even when the segmental structure substrates are used at least a horizontal and flat part seating plane part an area where the first substrate is mounted in the body housing should be provided to mount electronic parts and the plane part requires a plane seating structure for performing a function such as a function of a sensor. In the present embodiment when a space guaranteed at the both ends of the curved battery is used as a mounting area a loss in the mounting space caused by the substrate being mounted on the plane can be offset. In particular when a relatively thick part such as a vibrator m or a connector is placed an inevitable increase in the total thickness of the curved body can be prevented. Although not shown various mechanism configurations such as a sub battery or a hook assembly can be mounted in the guaranteed space.

In the curved body according to the present embodiment the third substrate P is disposed between the lower side of the display and one side area of the battery Y axis direction and the motor m is disposed on the third substrate P and the charging terminal c is disposed on the first substrate P. The motor m is horizontally disposed in parallel with the battery and the charging terminal c is horizontally disposed in parallel with the battery . The motor m is disposed on the top surface of the third substrate P and the charging terminal c is disposed on the bottom surface of the first substrate P. The charging terminal c is exposed from the rear surface of the body housing. Since the motor m is a relatively thick part or a part of a great volume it is advantageous to dispose the motor m on the second substrate P or the third substrate P in view of the efficiency of mounting.

As other input devices mounted in the substrates an electric switch interface using a touch sensor a pressure sensor a temperature sensor and the like and a physical switch interface such as a tact dome key may be disposed on one surface of the body housing on which the user can manipulate. Charging and interface terminals may further be disposed on a location of the front surface or the rear surface of the body housing that does not deface the exterior. In the present embodiment the charging terminal c is disposed on the rear surface of the body housing. According to the present embodiment the surface that does not deface the exterior of the wearable device may be the rear surface of the body housing that is the surface which is in contact with the human body.

Hereinafter the configuration of the display disposed on the front surface of the curved body will be explained.

The display has a shape reflecting a curved part of a human body and may include a curved LCD flexible OLED . The design of the front surface of the body can be achieved by the curved surface of the LCD or the curved window presenting a curved surface. The display may further include a sensor for detecting a touch pressure or temperature in addition to the curved flexible LCD thereby providing a Perceptual User Interface PUI optimized to use of various user interface UIs . In addition the window may provide a layer made of a ceramic material such as glass and a sheet material such as PET PC and the like to protect the surface.

The battery may be manufactured in a bent shape and configured to have a predetermined curvature. The front surface and the rear surface of the battery each have a curvature. The curvature of the battery may be the same as the curvature of the display and thus the battery may be disposed to face the rear surface of the display. A mounting space may be formed on the center of the rear surface of the battery and can be utilized effectively by mounting a hardware electronic part therein. The battery may not have the same curvature as that of the display. In addition although the battery may be disposed between the display and the substrate the battery may be configured in a flat shape and may be disposed on the bottom surface of the substrate.

Referring back to a separate layer part may be added between the curved battery and the first substrate P to prevent breakage of parts of the first substrate P and the battery caused by volume expansion of the curved battery . The layer part stops volume expansion of the battery . The layer part may act as a physical support structure or a buffering section for the curved battery and the first substrate P and may be provided in the form of a barrier for preventing a battery liquid from leaking to the lower side. The layer part may be provided as a conductive or metal piece or an injection molding piece.

Referring to the body that is the body housing may be removable from the wearing part . The direction of removal may include a coupling direction that is the relative direction that the body housing and the wearing part move to effect coupling in which the body moves from bottom to top and is coupled to the seating part and a decoupling direction that is the relative direction that the body housing and the wearing part move to effect decoupling in which the body is pushed down and is decoupled from the wearing part . The coupling direction refers to a direction in which the body coupled to the wearing part is prevented or inhibited from being separated from the human body.

The curved body housing may have a widthwise direction in which the width is gradually reduced from the rear surface or the center to the front surface such that removal of the body housing from the wearing part may be accomplished by moving the body housing and the wearing part apart from each other in a first direction but not in a second direction that is opposite that of the first direction thereby providing a first removal direction. The width W of the body housing on the front surface in the widthwise direction X axis direction is smaller than the width W on the center including the rear surface in the widthwise direction. The body housing having the above described shape should be moved from bottom to top with reference to the seating part to be coupled to the seating part. The side surface of the body housing includes a first part enclosing between the recess and the front surface and a second part enclosing a part between the recess and the rear surface and the width W of the first part is set to be smaller than the width W of the second part when viewed in a cross section of the body housing cut perpendicularly to the first direction Y axis direction . The above described structure provides the first removal direction.

In addition the removal structure for coupling or decoupling the curved body housing to or from the seating part may be formed along the circumference of the opening provides a second direction of removal. The removal structure includes the seating recess and the seating part . The seating recess may extend along the circumference of the side surface of the curved body housing and continuously extends with the same curvature as the first curvature. The seating part may be tightly coupled to the seating recess to fix the curved body housing to the opening . The seating part may be made of an elastic material and is elastically deformable according to whether the seating part is coupled to the seating recess or not and the opening of the seating part is configured to be slightly smaller than the curved body housing so that the seating part is tightly coupled to the seating recess . In particular the seating part may be coupled to the seating recess formed along the outer circumference of the side surface of the side surfaces of the curved body housing to have the same curvature as the first curvature.

The seating recess may be provided with a first close contact surface including a first top surface a first intermediate surface and a first bottom surface . The seating recess may be configured to have the horizontal width of the exterior corresponding to the first bottom surface wider than the horizontal width of the exterior corresponding to the first top surface . The first top surface may be configured to be horizontally flat or substantially horizontally flat and the first bottom surface may be configured to be horizontally flat or substantially horizontally flat.

In addition the seating part includes a second close contact surface including a second top surface a second intermediate surface and a second bottom surface and which is in close contact with the first close contact surface. The second top surface may be configured to be horizontally flat or substantially horizontally flat and the second bottom surface may be configured to be horizontally flat or substantially horizontally flat. The seating part is configured to have the horizontal width of the exterior corresponding to the second bottom surface wider than the horizontal width of the exterior corresponding to the first top surface such that removal may in accomplished by moving the body relative to the seating part in one direction but is inhibited in the opposite direction thereby providing the second removal direction.

The second close contact surface of the seating part is formed in a shape corresponding to the first close contact surface of the seating recess so that the body can be safely coupled to the wearing part and safely decoupled from the wearing part when necessary. Such a removal structure can prevent unexpected removal caused by a wearing pressure when the user does physical activity can prevent the body from being decoupled from the wearing part .

Hereinafter a waterproof structure of a wearable device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure will be explained with reference to . is a partial cutaway perspective view showing a waterproof structure applied to a plurality of parts of the wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. is a partial cutaway perspective view showing a waterproof structure applied to a side key of the wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. is a partial cutaway perspective view showing a waterproof structure applied to a charging terminal of the wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. As shown in the wearable device according to the present embodiments applies a uni body structure by coupling the body housing and the battery bracket thereby minimizing the number of waterproof points. The wearable device according to the present embodiments includes a plurality of waterproof structures. The waterproof structure of the wearable device according to the present embodiments is applied to a place where the curved window is disposed a place where the side key k is disposed a place where the sensor s is disposed and a place where the charging terminal c is disposed.

First the waterproof structure for the curved window mounted on the front surface of the body housing applies a waterproof tape T . The curved window is attached to an adhesive surface of the circumference of the front surface to which the waterproof tape T is attached by using the waterproof tape T. The waterproof tape T is a double sided tape and has an upper surface attached to the curved window and a lower surface attached to the adhesive surface of the front surface shown in . Water is prevented from entering the body housing by the waterproof tape T.

Secondly the waterproof structure for the side key k disposed on the side surface of the body housing applies a waterproof tape T. The waterproof tape T may be a double sided tape and may be provided to enclose the side key k . One surface of the waterproof tape T may be attached to the inner surface of the body housing where the side key is disposed and the other surface is attached to a silicon rubber so that water is prevented or inhibited from entering by the waterproof tape T. In addition the side key k includes a silicon rubber for providing a restoring force when it is pressed and a waterproof protrusion P is tightly arranged along the circumference of the silicon rubber see so that water is prevented from entering between the silicon rubber and the inner surface of the body housing. The silicon rubber prevents water from entering through the lower side by using the waterproof protrusion P and prevents water from entering the upper side by using the waterproof tape T placed on the lower side.

Thirdly a waterproof structure using a waterproof tape T is applied to the sensor s disposed on the rear surface of the body housing. The sensor s is provided with a sensor interface sensor window and the waterproof tape T is a double sided tape and has one surface attached to the inner surface of the body housing and the other surface attached to the bottom surface of the sensor interface sw . The waterproof tape T is attached along the lower circumference of the sensor interface sw .

Fourthly a waterproof structure is applied to the charging terminal c disposed on the rear surface of the body housing. The waterproof structure for the charging terminal c may be achieved by fitting a high elastic waterproof part R made of rubber or silicon material into the charging terminal c . The waterproof part R is disposed between the side surface of the charging terminal and the inner wall of the body housing to prevent water from entering the charging terminal. In addition a waterproof tape P is attached between the body of the charging terminal and the inner surface of the body housing to prevent water from entering the body of the charging terminal c . In addition to the waterproof tape various kinds of adhesive such as a bond silicon and the like may be used as a waterproof member.

In general users wrists have different curvatures when users wear wearable devices on their wrists. Since the respective curvatures of the users wrists are different a wearing sensation that each user can feel may be different. In particular since woman s wrist is thinner than man s wrist the wearable device cannot fit all of the users. However since the wearable device according to the present embodiments has a structure in which the wearing part is removable from the body and the wearing part is changeable users can select the wearing part to fit their respective body sizes.

The wearing part of the wearable device according to the present embodiment of has a different curvature from the wrist curvature provided by the wearing part of the wearable device shown in . The wearable device according to the present embodiment includes the wearing part and the body which can be coupled to or decoupled from the wearing part . The end of the wearing part provides a varying curvature in the boundary area A where the body and the wearing part are coupled to each other so that the wearable device can respond to various wrist curvatures.

The wearing part includes a seating part and a band part and is configured to have a different curvature from the first curvature of the body the curvature of the front surface of the body housing and the curved display in the boundary area A between the seating part and the band part . In addition the curvature of a seating recess on the side surface of the body is different from the first curvature in the boundary area A. When the curvature provided by the seating recess and the seating part in the boundary area A is smaller than the first curvature provided by the body the wearable device makes a user who has a small wrist curvature feel good when the user wears it. When the curvature provided by the seating recess and the seating part in the boundary area A is greater than the first curvature provided by the body the wearable device makes a user who has a large wrist curvature feel good when the user wears it.

In addition the seating recess of the body includes a curvature of a top surface and a curvature of a bottom surface and the curvature of the bottom surface is smaller than the curvature of the top surface in the boundary area A so that the wearable device can respond to a user s wrist curvature.

As a result the curvatures provided by the seating recess and the seating part of the wearing part do not need to be uniform and the wearable device can respond to various users wrist curvatures by partially varying the curvature of the seating recess or the curvature of the bottom surface of the seating recess in the boundary area A.

The configuration of a wearing part according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be explained with reference to .

A wearing part shown in includes first and second bands and and an area or a form for arranging the first and second bands and as a single body. When a user wears the wearable device on user s wrist the first and second bands and are arranged as a single body by the clip . The clip is an accessory for clipping the first and second bands and and has a part opened. The first band may be provided with a plurality of fastening holes in a lengthwise direction.

A wearing part shown in includes first and second bands and and an area or a form for arranging the first and second bands and as a single body. When a user wears the wearable device on user s wrist the first and second bands and are arranged as a single body by the clip . The clip is an accessory for clipping the first and second bands and and has a part opened more than the clip of .

A wearing part shown in and B includes first and second bands and and an area or a form for arranging the first and second bands and as a single body. When a user wears the wearable device on user s wrist the first and second bands and are restricted by each other by the clip . The clip may be an accessory that is integrally formed with the second band and the first band is arranged along with the second band as a single body by the clip . A fastening part may be integrally formed with the end of the first band and a fastening protrusion of the fastening part may be inserted into the hole of the second band so that the first and second bands and are restricted by each other as a single body.

A wearing part shown in and B may include first and second bands and and a clip for arranging the first and second bands and as a single body. When a user wears the wearable device on user s wrist the first and second bands and are restricted by each other by the clip . The clip is an accessory integrally formed with the second band and the first band is arranged along with the second band as a single body by the clip . A fastening part is integrally formed with the end of the first band and a fastening protrusion of the fastening part is inserted into the hole of the second band so that the first and second bands and are restricted by each other as a single body.

The wearing part shown in may be configured in various colors and a wearing surface may be formed in an uneven shape having a wave form when viewed in a cross section thereby improving a sensation that the user may feel when wearing the wearable device.

According to various embodiments at least part of the wearable device of the present disclosure may be implemented by using instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium in the form of a programming module. When the instructions are executed by one or more processors the one or more processors may perform a function corresponding to the instructions. The computer readable storage medium may be a memory for example. At least part of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by using the processor. At least part of the programming module may include a module a program a routine sets of instructions a process and the like for performing one or more functions.

Examples of the computer readable recording medium include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tapes optical media such as Compact Disc Read Only Memories CD ROMs and Digital Versatile Discs DVDs magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices such as Read Only Memories ROMs Random Access Memories RAMs and flash memories that are especially configured to store and execute program commands e.g. the programming module . Examples of the program commands include machine language codes created by a compiler and high level language codes that can be executed by a computer by using an interpreter. The above described hardware devices may be configured to operate as one or more software modules for performing operations of the present disclosure and vice versa.

A module or programming module of the present disclosure may include one or more of the above described elements may omit some elements or may further include additional elements. The operations performed by the module the programming module or the other elements according to the present disclosure may be performed serially in parallel repeatedly or heuristically. In addition some operation may be performed in different order or may omitted and an additional operation may be added.

While the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Therefore all differences including obvious variants thereof are to be construed as being within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure and will be construed as being included in the present disclosure.

