---

title: Exchange service for wireless communication pricing accessible by wallet applications
abstract: A system and method may provide an exchange service for providing the price of wireless minutes to wallet applications and other client applications. The system may obtain pricing information for the wireless minutes and provide the pricing information to a wallet application. The pricing information may be provided through a rate server that subscribed to receive the pricing information. The rate server typically also provides exchange rates for currencies for use at wallet applications that are communicably coupled to the rate server. By providing the pricing information to wallet applications, wireless service providers may variably price their wireless services. End users may be able to obtain real-time prices of the wireless services and purchase such services directly using payment accounts associated with a wallet application. For example, a Bitcoin wallet may be used to obtain real-time prices of the wireless services and purchase such services using Bitcoins.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09219824&OS=09219824&RS=09219824
owner: RFCO LLC
number: 09219824
owner_city: Madeira Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150306
---
The invention relates to an exchange service for providing the price of wireless communication units and other commodities accessible by wallet applications and other client applications.

Wallet applications for mobile devices have grown in popularity due to their convenience of use and improved security features. Wallet applications generally are pre associated with a payment account used to pay for purchases. For instance Softcard from American Express is associated with a credit card that is charged whenever the Softcard wallet application is used to make a purchase. Some wallet applications use digital currencies such as Bitcoin to fund purchases. Many wallet applications in particular those using digital currencies provide exchange rates. For example Bitcoin wallet applications typically provide exchange rates to convert Bitcoins into fiat or other currencies.

Although convenient to make purchases at retail locations that accept wallet application payments purchasing commodities is still cumbersome. For example purchasing wireless minutes and other increments of wireless services from a wireless service provider using a wallet application may be impractical. This is because from the end user s point of view the rates i.e. prices for the wireless minutes are unknown when contemplating activating or adding increments of wireless services. These and other drawbacks exist with conventional wallet applications and wireless minute purchases.

The invention addressing these and other drawbacks relates to a system and method for providing an exchange service that provides price information for wireless communication units and other commodities. The price information may include a price for a given wireless communication unit. The price may be denominated in one or more currencies e.g. a digital currency a fiat currency and or other type of currency according to particular needs.

The price information may be provided indirectly through rate servers and or directly to a wallet application executing on a client device. The price information may be provided on demand e.g. the wallet application may request the price information each time the wallet application is opened when a network connection is available based on an explicit request from an end user operating the client device etc. . Alternatively or additionally the price information may be provided at regular intervals and or upon occurrence of a publication triggering event e.g. when updated price information is available . In this manner the wallet application may obtain either directly from the system or through rate servers real time or near real time prices for wireless communication units or other commodities as well as facilitate purchases of such units or commodities.

A wireless communication unit may be used by a wireless service provider as a way to monitor usage of a wireless service. A wireless communication unit may be expressed as an increment of time e.g. number of minutes or other increment of time an increment of data e.g. megabytes Mb of data and or other unit that may be used to monitor usage of a wireless service. A wireless service may include without limitation a satellite based communication service a terrestrial based communication service e.g. cellular service and or other communication service that may charge a fee for the use of wireless communication units. Although described herein as wireless communication units and wireless service other types of communication services e.g. landline Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN etc. may be used as well.

Wireless communication units will be used as examples throughout for ease of illustration and not limitation. It will be apparent however that the system may be used to provide an exchange for providing price or other exchange information for other commodities e.g. rewards such as airline miles goods services financial securities etc. based on the disclosure herein as well. Furthermore examples of commodities will be described with respect to wireless minutes for convenience and not limitation. Other wireless communication units and commodities may be used as well.

To facilitate these and other functions the system may include a computer system that aggregates pricing information from one or more pricing providers. The pricing providers may include without limitation a wireless service provider a rewards e.g. airline miles provider a commodities producer or exchange a financial services provider and or other entities that may provide pricing information for a good or service.

The computer system may store the price information in a pricing database in association with the type of commodity to which the price information pertains a provider of the commodity and or other information that may be used to retrieve the price information for a given commodity or provider of the commodity.

The computer system may provide the price information to rate servers which may then provide the price information along with their own exchange rate information to a wallet application. For instance a particular rate server may subscribe to receive the price information e.g. the price for wireless minutes provided by the computer system. A wallet application that receives exchange rates from the particular rate server may also receive the price for wireless minutes. The particular wallet application will therefore have access to and display the price for wireless minutes.

Using the system a wireless service provider may introduce variably priced wireless services including limited time promotions e.g. discounts that may be purchased using a wallet application which may be executing on the device that uses the wireless services . For instance a wireless service provider may encode identification information into a Quick Response QR code or other machine readable code that is printed on a SIM card or on packaging of the SIM card. Other devices other than a SIM card used to identify a client device that accesses wireless services may be used as well. Furthermore other ways to convey the identification information may be used as well.

The client device which may be programmed with a wallet application may display the price of the wireless minutes which may have been obtained from a rate server. The client device may obtain the identification information from the QR code identify the wireless service based on the identification information and initiate a purchase of the wireless minutes using a payment account associated with the wallet application. As such an end user may obtain real time or near real time pricing for wireless minutes and purchase the wireless minutes using a wallet application. In some instances a given wallet application may use a particular currency. The wallet application may automatically convert the price of the wireless minutes in to the particular currency as necessary based on the price information ultimately provided by the computer system.

These and other objects features and characteristics of the system and or method disclosed herein as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The invention described herein relates to a system and method for an exchange service that provides price information for wireless communication units and other commodities.

System may include one or more computer systems one or more pricing providers one or more rate servers one or more client devices one or more payment processors one or more databases and or other components.

Computer system may be implemented as a server computing device a personal computer e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer etc. a smartphone a tablet computing device and or other device that can be used to provide pricing for wireless communication units.

Computer system may include one or more processors also interchangeably referred to herein as processors processor s or processor for convenience one or more storage devices which may store an exchange application and or other components. Processors may be programmed by one or more computer program instructions. For example processors may be programmed by exchange application and or other instructions.

It should be noted that the functions of computer system described in more detail herein may be provided as a standalone service to various entities and or may be integrated within the various entities systems. For example computer system may be a standalone computer system or be integrated into a pricing provider s computer system a rate server s computer system and or other entity s computer systems.

A pricing provider may include an entity that provides price information for a commodity. For example and without limitation a pricing provider may include a telecommunication company e.g. a wireless service provider a rewards provider e.g. an airline miles provider a commodity producer financial securities brokers managers and or others that provide goods or services at a price or exchange rate that generally although not necessarily varies. Thus a given pricing provider may use the system to expose their prices to a wallet application as well as facilitate the sale of a commodity through the wallet application.

A rate server may include an entity that provides exchange rates for currencies it deems are relevant to its business. For example various credit card companies and other financial institutions may offer their own rate servers that provide relevant rates to their own wallet applications. Some rate servers provide centralized currency exchanges used by financial institutions.

A client device may be implemented as a personal computer e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer etc. a smartphone a tablet computing device and or other device that can be used to pricing for wireless communication units or other commodity and facilitate the purchase of such commodity.

Client device may include one or more processors also interchangeably referred to herein as processors processor s or processor for convenience one or more storage devices which may store a wallet application and or other components. Processors may be programmed by one or more computer program instructions. For example processors may be programmed by wallet application and or other instructions.

Payment processors may include digital currency transaction loggers e.g. Bitcoin transaction processors miners conventional credit card payment processors electronic funds transfer processors and or other payment processors that can transfer currency from a sender or payer account to a recipient or payee account.

The various databases described herein may be include or interface to for example an Oracle relational database sold commercially by Oracle Corporation. Other databases such as Informix DB2 Database 2 or other data storage including file based or query formats platforms or resources such as OLAP On Line Analytical Processing SQL Structured Query Language a SAN storage area network Microsoft Access or others may also be used incorporated or accessed. The database may comprise one or more such databases that reside in one or more physical devices and in one or more physical locations. The database may store a plurality of types of data and or files and associated data or file descriptions administrative information or any other data.

Although illustrated in as a single component computer system may include a plurality of individual components e.g. computer devices each programmed with at least some of the functions described herein. In this manner some components of computer system may perform some functions while other components may perform other functions as would be appreciated.

The one or more processors may each include one or more physical processors that are programmed by computer program instructions. The various instructions described herein are exemplary only. Other configurations and numbers of instructions may be used so long as the processor s are programmed to perform the functions described herein.

Furthermore it should be appreciated that although the various instructions are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor s each includes multiple processing units one or more instructions may be executed remotely from the other instructions.

The description of the functionality provided by the different instructions described herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of instructions may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of the instructions may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of the instructions. As another example processor s may each be programmed by one or more additional instructions that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed herein to one of the instructions.

The various instructions described herein may be stored in a storage device which may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and or other memory. The storage device may store the computer program instructions e.g. the aforementioned instructions to be executed by processor as well as data that may be manipulated by processor . The storage device may comprise floppy disks hard disks optical disks tapes or other storage media for storing computer executable instructions and or data.

The various components illustrated in may be coupled to at least one other component via a network which may include any one or more of for instance the Internet an intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a SAN Storage Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a wireless network a cellular communications network a Public Switched Telephone Network and or other network. In as well as in other drawing Figures different numbers of entities than those depicted may be used. Furthermore according to various implementations the components described herein may be implemented in hardware and or software that configure hardware.

Various pricing providers may provide pricing information to computer system . For example telecommunications providers e.g. satellite phone providers cellular phone providers etc. may provide pricing information for wireless communication units. Rewards providers e.g. an airline miles provider may provide exchange rates for rewards e.g. to exchange airline miles to currency and vice versa a commodity exchange or provide may provide pricing for commodities financial services markets or companies may provide prices for mutual funds stocks or other financial instruments. Others that provide goods or services at a price or exchange rate that generally although not necessarily varies may also provide price information to computer system as well.

Computer system may obtain the pricing information and store the pricing information in association with its source and the commodity to which the pricing information pertains. In this manner pricing information for wireless minutes may be provided alone or along with other types of commodities using a digital currency and or other type of currency.

Computer system may provide the pricing information to various entities such as rate servers . In this manner rate servers may incorporate the pricing information into their own rate services they provide to downstream recipients. Some rate servers may provide its rates to other rate servers. For example a centralize bank or currency exchange may provide exchange rates including pricing information from computer system to other rate servers which may be associated with individual companies involved in electronic payment systems some of which may be proprietary and some of which may use a digital currency such as Bitcoin.

In turn each rate server may provide exchange rates including the pricing information from computer system to its downstream recipients typically although not necessarily to wallet applications executing on client devices that cooperate with the corresponding rate server. A wallet application may display the exchange rates pricing information and facilitate the purchase of wireless minutes natively using a payment account associated with the wallet application.

Having described a high level overview of the system attention will now be turned to the functions of computer system which may be programmed by exchange application .

Exchange application may include instructions that program computer system . The instructions may include without limitation a subscription manager a pricing aggregator a price conversion engine a price publisher a purchase manager and or other instructions that program computer system to perform various operations examples of which are described in greater detail herein. As used herein for convenience the various instructions will be described as performing an operation when in fact the various instructions program the processors and therefore computer system to perform the operation.

According to an aspect of the invention subscription manager may register a subscription user to receive price information for wireless communication units. As used herein the term subscription user may refer to an entity such as rate server a person a wallet application and or others that register to receive price information provided by computer system . For instance an entity such as a rate server may be interested in obtaining the price information and providing such price information along with other prices provided by that rate server. An individual person may subscribe to receive the price information as well. Likewise an application e.g. a wallet application may subscribe to directly receive the price information rather than or in addition to receiving such pricing from a rate server .

Upon registration subscription information related to the subscription user may be collected and stored in a subscription database such as in one or more databases . The subscription information may include subscription user identification information authentication information e.g. a secret such as a password currency preference information that indicates a preferred currency in which denominate prices commodity preference information that identify commodities for which price information is desired and or other information related to the subscription user.

According to an aspect of the invention pricing aggregator may obtain price information from one or more pricing providers . For instance pricing aggregator may obtain a price of wireless minutes offered by a wireless service provider a commodity price from a commodities exchange a security price from a securities exchange and or other price information. Pricing aggregator may obtain such price information on demand at regular intervals and or at other times. Furthermore pricing aggregator may request e.g. pull the price information and or be provided with e.g. pushed the price information. The price information may be stored in a pricing database such as a database for later retrieval and or historical price analysis.

The pricing database may further store an association of a given SIM card identifier with a wireless service provider that provides wireless service and or with a price for wireless minutes. In this manner a given SIM card may be mapped to a price for wireless minutes.

In some instances the price information may specify a price that varies. For example the price of wireless minutes may vary due to promotions offered by a wireless service provider time of day day of week location e.g. whether in network service load and or other factor that may cause the price to vary. In this manner a wireless service provider may advantageously use the system to provide real time price information for its services and facilitate the sale of such services to end users e.g. those who use wireless communication units . Likewise other entities may advantageously use the system to provide real time price information for its commodities and facilitate the sale or exchange of such commodities.

The price information may be associated with identification information that indicates the relevant commodity so that the price information may be later matched with the relevant commodity. For instance price information for a wireless minute may be associated with identification information such as an identity of a wireless service provider a Subscriber Identity Module SIM or other mobile account identity and or other identifying information. In this manner price information may be matched to a given type of service provider or a given commodity to facilitate the sale of such commodity.

In implementations in which price information relates to wireless minutes or other wireless communication unit the system allows variable pricing for wireless minutes even on prepaid devices such as prepaid SIM cards prepaid phones etc. For instance a SIM card that has been sold or is offered for sale at a retail outlet may be associated with a variable price for wireless minutes. In other words instead of a set number of wireless minutes for a prepaid SIM card or phone for example the price may vary according to real time pricing offered by the wireless service provider that provides service to the SIM card or phone.

In an implementation the price of a commodity may vary as a result of a promotion or sale. For instance a wireless service provider may offer a promotion during a specified period of time that may begin at a starting point in time e.g. date and or time and ends at an ending point in time e.g. date and or time . During the promotion the price per minute may be reduced. The system may publish the appropriate price information based on the promotion so that end users who are interested in activating or reloading a SIM card or prepaid phone for instance may obtain real time pricing that reflects any promotion as well any other price variation .

According to an aspect of the invention price conversion engine may convert the price of wireless minutes from one currency to one or more other currencies. For instance if wireless service provider provides the price of wireless minutes in a first currency price conversion engine may convert the price of wireless minutes to a second currency and or third currency. Such conversion may be performed based on current exchange rates between the first second and or third currencies provided by one or more rate servers .

According to an aspect of the invention price publisher may provide price information for wireless minutes and or other commodities in one or more currencies. As would be appreciated the one or more currencies may each be converted by to another currency by the recipient e.g. a subscription user .

Price publisher may provide the price information to subscriber users or others based on an occurrence of a publication trigger event and or an on demand request. Typically though not necessarily the subscriber users or others may cache the price information for local retrieval as will be described below with respect to wallet application .

In some instances price publisher may provide price information through a broadcast message that is pushed to subscriber users or others. The broadcast message may be responsive to an occurrence of a publication trigger event. A publication trigger event may include without limitation a change in the price information as measured from previously obtained price information for a given commodity a passage of a predefined and or configurable amount of time and or other event that causes price publisher to provide price information to subscriber users or others.

Upon occurrence of a publication trigger event price publisher may identify relevant subscriber users and their subscriptions. Price publisher may then provide the appropriate price information to the subscriber users or others.

Such publication may be made through for example a multicast communication a one to one communication a webservice e.g. a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP service and or other communication protocol in which a sender may push information to a recipient.

In some instances price publisher may provide price information responsive to a request. For instance price publisher may expose an Application Programming Interface API a webservice e.g. a SOAP service and or other interface through which a computing device e.g. a computing device of a rate server an individual an application etc. is provided with the price information. In some instances a user interface application such as an application executing through an Internet browser may use the interface to request and obtain the price information from price publisher. The user interface application may display the price information through for example a website a mobile application and or other user interface suitable to display or otherwise consume the price information.

In some instances price publisher may provide a price for a commodity responsive to a request that is specific for the commodity. For example a client device may request a current price for wireless minutes for use in a wireless service. In a particular example a client device may scan or otherwise obtain identification information packaged with or directly printed onto SIM cards pre paid phones and or other devices used to access a wireless service. Client device may provide the identification information to price publisher .

Upon receipt of the identification information price publisher may identify the corresponding type of commodity e.g. wireless service and or provider e.g. wireless service provider based on the identification information. Price publisher may obtain and provide the appropriate price for wireless minutes based on the identified wireless service and or provider. In some instances a first SIM card may be encoded with first identification information while a second SIM card may be encoded with second identification information. The first identification information may correspond to a first price for wireless minutes while the second identification information may correspond to a second price different than the first price for wireless minutes. In this manner different SIM cards or other devices may be associated with different pricing structures. Furthermore as would be appreciated different SIM cards may be associated with different wireless service providers and therefore may have different pricing structures for their wireless minutes .

In an implementation price publisher may provide a price for wireless minutes based on an identity of a wallet application to which the price is provided. For example the price for wireless minutes may be provided in a digital currency e.g. Bitcoin for a digital currency wallet or a fiat currency for a fiat currency based wallet. In this manner price publisher may provide a given wallet application with a price for wireless minutes using the currency preferred or otherwise used by the wallet application. Conversion to and from different currencies may be performed by price conversion engine . In other implementations price publisher may provide a given wallet application or all wallet applications with price information that includes prices denominated in a predefined currency which may then be converted to an appropriate currency by each respective wallet application.

In an implementation the price or other information may be customized based on an identity of a user of a wallet application. For instance price publisher may obtain an identity of a user associated with the wallet application such as from registration information obtained during a registration process described herein. Price publisher may customize the actual price or offer for wireless minutes or other commodity based on the identity of the user. For example price publisher may obtain user preferences prior user activity e.g. previously purchased wireless minutes or other commodity wireless usage activity etc. user demographic information and or other information known about the user to provide customized price or other information.

In an implementation price publisher may provide a price for wireless minutes using a currency localized for wallet application . For instance a client device executing wallet application may provide location information e.g. Global Positioning System information manual input by an end user etc. that indicates a location of the client device. The location information may be received in association with a request from wallet application to receive the price for wireless minutes and or may be received periodically from the wallet application. Price publisher may use the location information to automatically localize the price for wireless minutes. For example price publisher may identify a currency accepted at the location and may localize the price of wireless minutes according to the local currency.

According to an aspect of the invention purchase manager may facilitate purchase of a commodity e.g. wireless minutes . For example purchase manager may receive a payment initiated by wallet application for wireless minutes. Upon receipt of the payment purchase manager may arrange for the provision of the purchased commodity. For example purchase manager may cause a SIM card account to be activated or reloaded with an appropriate number of purchased wireless minutes. Other types of commodities may be arranged for provision as well. Payments may be processed by purchase manager or purchase agent and will be described below with respect to purchase agent .

According to an aspect of the invention pricing manager may obtain price information for wireless minutes. For example pricing manager may receive the price information from price publisher upon the occurrence of a publication triggering event. Alternatively or additionally pricing manager may request the price information on demand through an interface e.g. API web service etc. provided by pricing manager . Such on demand requests may be initiated by the end user or by pricing manager when a network connection is available and or whenever wallet application is opened.

In some instances pricing manager may obtain exchange rates for digital fiat and or other types of currencies from exchange servers . The exchange rates may be used for conversion from one currency to another. Pricing manager may maintain exchange rates for a particular currency for conversion to one or more other currencies. The particular currency may be used specifically by wallet application . For example pricing manager when part of a digital currency wallet application may maintain exchange rates to convert Bitcoins to other currencies such as other digital currencies and or fiat currencies.

Pricing manager may cause the obtained price information and or exchange rates to be stored in a memory such as storage device . In some instances the price information may be stored in a local price database at storage device .

Pricing manager may provide the price information and or the exchange rates via a user interface associated with wallet application . An example of such a user interface is illustrated in .

According to an aspect of the invention price conversion engine may convert the price of wireless minutes from one currency to another currency and more generally convert a given currency to another currency using the exchange rates. In this manner currency exchange rates may be performed locally.

According to an aspect of the invention ID reader may read or otherwise obtain identification information associated with a SIM card prepaid phone and or other device used to access wireless services. The identification information may i be encoded using a machine readable code e.g. a Quick Response QR code a barcode etc. ii include alpha numeric text iii be encoded using an electronic tag e.g. a Radio Frequency Identification RFID Near Field Communication NFC etc. and or include other methods of conveying the identification information.

The identification information may be included e.g. printed on the SIM card or other device used to access wireless services and or on packaging for the SIM card. In this manner an end user may use client device to obtain the identification information from the SIM card and or packaging. For example an end user may scan or otherwise read the identification information from the device and or packaging using client device programmed by a wallet application .

In an implementation to obtain the identification information ID reader may cause an ID acquisition interface to be displayed by client device such as the ID acquisition interface illustrated in .

According to an aspect of the invention purchase agent may facilitate the purchase of wireless minutes or other commodity . For instance purchase agent may use ID reader to obtain identification information associated with a SIM card. Once obtained purchase agent may match the identification information with a price information of corresponding wireless minutes or other commodity which may be stored in storage device . Alternatively or additionally purchase agent may transmit to computer system a request to obtain real time price information of wireless minutes associated with the SIM card. The request may include the identification information. Whether or not the price information agent is obtained from local storage or in real time purchase agent may provide the price information through a display to the end user either in response to the obtained identification information or as an exchange rate display illustrated in .

Upon receipt of an indication to purchase wireless minutes purchase agent may initiate payment processing using a payment account associated with wallet application . In implementations where wallet application is associated with multiple payment accounts purchase agent may prompt the end user to select a given payment account.

Purchase agent may process the payment based on the selected or default only payment account. For example purchase agent may transmit payment identifying information e.g. information associated with though not necessarily including a credit card number to a payment processor which may process payments on behalf of the payee such as a wireless service provider according to conventional payment processing techniques. In another example purchase agent may provide a Bitcoin payer address Bitcoin payee address information signed using a Bitcoin private key amount as determined from the wireless minutes price and applicable exchange rate and and or other information required to process Bitcoin transactions.

In this manner purchase agent facilitates the purchase of wireless minutes which may be variably priced and other commodities using an integrated solution that can include digital and other currencies.

It should be appreciated that at least some of the functions of exchange application may be performed by wallet application and vice versa. For example wallet application may customize and or localize the price information received directly from computer system or from a rate server .

In an operation price information for wireless minutes may be obtained. The price information may indicate a price for a given number of wireless minutes or other wireless communication unit an identification of a provider of the wireless minutes and or other information.

In an operation the price information may be customized and or localized. The price information customized price information and or localized price information may be stored in a pricing database.

In an operation the price information may be provided to relevant parties which may include subscription users who have subscribed to receive the price information users who have requested such price information on demand and or others.

In an operation a number of wireless minutes involved in the purchase may be determined. For instance the indication of the payment may include an indication of the amount paid whether in digital fiat and or other currency an indication of the number of wireless minutes purchased and or other information that allows for a determination of the number or amount of wireless communication units that were purchased. If the payment indicates an amount paid an appropriate number of wireless minutes may be determined based on pricing information which may be stored in the pricing database .

In an operation a subscriber account associated with the payment may be identified. For example the indication of payment may be associated with identification information that identifies a SIM card.

In an operation the subscriber account associated with the SIM card may be incremented by the number of minutes.

In an operation pricing or other information for wireless minutes may be obtained. The pricing or other information may include a price for one or more wireless minutes.

In an operation the price may be localized by converting the price from one currency to another currency. In some instances this operation may be unnecessary because the price may be obtained in an appropriate currency. In a particular implementation the price may be denominated in Bitcoin currency suitable for use with a Bitcoin wallet application although other currencies and wallet applications may be used as well.

In an operation at least a portion of the pricing information e.g. the price may be displayed. In some instances the price may be displayed in one or more currencies. In some instances the price may be displayed along with exchange rates for various digital fiat and or other currencies. In this manner an end user may be provided with a real time e.g. on demand or near real time e.g. regularly updated based on a triggering event price for wireless minutes.

In an operation identification information may be obtained from a SIM card a prepaid phone and or other device used to access wireless services. Alternatively or additionally the identification information may be read from packaging associated with such device other media e.g. a printed or electronic advertisement . In any event the identification information may be encoded as a machine readable code e.g. a QR code a barcode etc. . The machine readable code may be imaged using an imaging device e.g. a camera and image processed using conventional techniques to obtain the identification information. The identification information may be manually input by an end user as well or be read from electronic tags e.g. RFID NFC etc. . Other methods of obtaining the identification information will be apparent as well.

In an operation a price of wireless minutes may be identified based on the identification information. For example the identification information may be transmitted to a computer system which responds with the price of the wireless minutes and or an identification of the wireless service associated with the identification information. In some instances the identification information may be used to locally look up the price for wireless minutes. For example the identification information may be locally associated with a particular wireless service provider and or a particular wireless service which may in turn be associated with the price of wireless minutes.

In an operation a purchase of wireless minutes may be facilitated. For instance a payment account may be used to purchase the wireless minutes. Such purchase may use a particular currency such as a Bitcoin or other currency. Information identifying the payment account which may include an actual account identifier such as a credit card number or a token representative of the credit card number may be pre stored locally and or may be input by the end user.

As illustrated in packaging is within a field of view . Packaging may package a SIM card and include a printed QR code . The end user e.g. a user operating client device programmed with wallet application is directed to arrange imaging guide around QR code . In some instances interface A may provide a visual indication that indicates whether or not the QR code is properly aligned with imaging guide . Once the user takes an image of QR code wallet application may obtain identification information encoded thereon as described herein. The identification information may be used to identify a wireless service or commodity as described herein and or a wireless service provider or commodity provider .

In some instances wallet application may have stored an association of pricing information and the wireless service and or wireless service provider. In this instance the end user may be made aware of the current price for minutes. Alternatively or additional wallet application may obtain a real time price quote for the wireless minutes by transmitting the identification information to computer system . The end user may purchase wireless minutes based on the obtained identification information.

Other implementations uses and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

