---

title: Printing device, system, and method when changing of printers
abstract: A print instruction assistance device includes an acquisition unit, a recognition unit, and an output unit. The acquisition unit acquires usage record information concerning a usage record of multiple functions of each of multiple printers. The recognition unit recognizes a change of a printer to be used for printing among the multiple printers from a first printer to a second printer. The output unit outputs information indicating a function which is identified in accordance with the usage record information among multiple functions of the first printer and which is not included in the second printer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09575697&OS=09575697&RS=09575697
owner: FUJI XEROX CO., LTD.
number: 09575697
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150122
---
This application is based on and claims priority under 35 USC 119 from Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 014921 filed Jan. 29 2014.

The present invention relates to a print instruction assistance device a printing system a method and a non transitory computer readable medium.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a print instruction assistance device including an acquisition unit a recognition unit and an output unit. The acquisition unit acquires usage record information concerning a usage record of multiple functions of each of multiple printers. The recognition unit recognizes a change of a printer to be used for printing among the multiple printers from a first printer to a second printer. The output unit outputs information indicating a function which is identified in accordance with the usage record information among multiple functions of the first printer and which is not included in the second printer.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention will be described hereinafter in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The terminal apparatus is a client computer used to instruct the image forming apparatus to form an image. Specifically the terminal apparatus creates data using application software hereinafter referred to simply as an application operating on an operating system OS such as document creation software spreadsheet software or drawing software and instructs the image forming apparatus to form an image based on the created data. Examples of the terminal apparatus may include a notebook personal computer PC a tablet PC a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone and a mobile phone. In this exemplary embodiment the terminal apparatus is provided as an example of a print instruction apparatus.

The image forming apparatus is an apparatus that forms an image on a recording medium such as paper and outputs the recording medium as a printed medium. The image forming apparatus may be an apparatus only having a printer function or may be an apparatus having additional functions such as a scanner function a copying function and a facsimile function which will be described below. In this exemplary embodiment the image forming apparatus is provided as an example of a printer.

The network is a communication unit used to communicate information between the terminal apparatus and the image forming apparatuses and and may be for example the Internet.

The terminal apparatus further includes a communication interface hereinafter referred to as the communication I F for communication with an external device a display device such as a display and an input device including a keyboard and a mouse.

The CPU loads various programs stored in the ROM or the like onto the RAM and executes the programs to implement the functions described below. The RAM is a memory used as a working memory or the like of the CPU and the ROM is a memory for storing various programs executed by the CPU and so forth. The HDD is for example a magnetic disk device that stores image data and the like used to form an image using the image forming unit .

The operation panel is a touch panel that accepts display of various kinds of information and input of operation by a user. The operation panel includes a display on which various kinds of information are displayed and a position detection sheet for detecting a position pointed at by a finger a stylus pen or the like. Instead of a touch panel a display and a keyboard may be used.

The image forming unit forms an image on a recording medium. The image forming unit may form an image by an electrophotographic method by which toner applied to a photoconductor is transferred onto a recording medium to form an image or may form an image by an inkjet method by which ink is ejected onto a recording medium to form an image.

The communication I F transmits and receives various kinds of information to and from another device via a network.

Although not illustrated in the image forming apparatus may include an image reading unit configured to read an image recorded on a recording medium such as paper. That is the image forming apparatus may have in addition to the printer function using the image forming unit a scanner function using the image reading unit and a copying function using the image reading unit and the image forming unit . The image forming apparatus may also have a facsimile function using the image reading unit the image forming unit and the communication I F .

In this exemplary embodiment in the image forming system described above the terminal apparatus has a universal printer driver installed therein. The universal printer driver is a printer driver common to multiple models in which printer drivers for image forming apparatuses of multiple models are combined into a single printer driver so that the image forming apparatus specified as an output destination is selectable each time a printing operation is performed. The universal printer driver allows a user to select one of the multiple image forming apparatuses on the network to instruct the selected image forming apparatus to perform printing without having to install the printer drivers respectively supporting the image forming apparatuses into a PC.

To that end in order to enable printing on the multiple image forming apparatuses on the network the universal printer driver includes a dedicated printer driver a general purpose printer driver and a basic mode printer driver as modules.

The dedicated printer driver is a printer driver configured to make all the unique functions of an image forming apparatus of a predetermined model selectable and configurable to make the best use of the performance and quality of the image forming apparatus of the model. The dedicated printer driver provides functions equivalent to those of a printer driver supporting each existing model and also provides functions not supported by image forming apparatuses of the other models.

The general purpose printer driver is a printer driver configured to make common functions of image forming apparatuses of predetermined multiple models selectable and configurable so as to be capable of supporting the image forming apparatuses of the models. The general purpose printer driver provides standard functions supported by image forming apparatuses manufactured by the same company which are generally available on the market. The general purpose printer driver may sometimes provide functions not supported by image forming apparatuses manufactured by other companies but does not provide functions unique to a model.

The basic mode printer driver is also a printer driver configured to be capable of supporting image forming apparatuses of multiple models and provides a printing function that is minimal enough not to cause errors in most of the Printer Command Language PCL compatible image forming apparatuses . The basic mode printer driver provides fewer functions than the dedicated printer driver or the general purpose printer driver. The basic mode printer driver is a printer driver that places a strong emphasis on the large number of output compatible devices rather than the huge abundance of function types to be provided.

In the universal printer driver a selection of models may be switched when multiple image forming apparatuses are used and the image forming apparatuses are of different models. That is if the universal printer driver includes dedicated printer drivers respectively supporting image forming apparatuses of multiple models the dedicated printer drivers may be switched.

Here consideration will be given of the switching of dedicated printer drivers in the universal printer driver from a dedicated printer driver supporting an image forming apparatus of a model A to a dedicated printer driver supporting an image forming apparatus of a model B. In this case the functions provided by the model A may be different from the functions provided by the model B. For example the model A provides a two sided or duplex printing function and a staple function whereas the model B does not provide such functions. In this case a user who frequently uses the duplex printing function and the staple function on the model A may also open a user interface UI screen of an image forming apparatus of the model B and attempt to select the duplex printing function and the staple function after the output destination has been switched to the model B. The user may also misunderstand that the duplex printing function and the staple function are also active on the image forming apparatus and perform a printing operation.

In the related art as described above it is difficult to effectively provide a user who has switched the models of the image forming apparatuses for the output destination with information concerning a function that is no longer available due to the difference in capability between the two models that have been switched.

It may also be possible that a user who has switched the models of the image forming apparatuses for the output destination is informed of a list of functions that are provided by the original model but are not provided by the new or replacement model. In this case a function that has not been used by the user may be possibly included in the list. Such information is not useful to the user.

Accordingly in this exemplary embodiment when a user has changed the model to be used the user is informed of a function not available on the replacement model among the functions previously used by the user on the original model due to the difference in function between the two models before and after the change.

The situation described above will also occur during switching of printer drivers 1 from a dedicated printer driver for a given model which is included in the universal printer driver to the general purpose printer driver or basic mode printer driver which is included in the universal printer driver 2 from a dedicated printer driver for a given model which is included in the universal printer driver to a printer driver for a different model which is installed separately from the universal printer driver 3 from a printer driver for a given model which is installed separately from the universal printer driver to a dedicated printer driver for a different model which is included in the universal printer driver and 4 from a printer driver for a given model which is installed separately from the universal printer driver to the general purpose printer driver or basic mode printer driver which is included in the universal printer driver. In the following a description will be given of the switching of printer drivers from a dedicated printer driver for a given model which is included in the universal printer driver to a dedicated printer driver for a different model which is included in the universal printer driver.

The application is application software such as document creation software spreadsheet software or drawing software. When a user performs an operation of requesting the creation of data the application generates data such as document data table data or drawing data. When a user performs an operation of requesting the printing of the generated data the application calls the rendering API .

The rendering API is an API for the rendering of text drawings and the like and corresponds to the Microsoft Windows registered trademark graphic device interface GSI for example.

As described above the universal printer driver is a printer driver that allows a user to give instructions to image forming apparatuses of multiple models to form an image by using a single printer driver. Upon receipt of a rendering command from the application via the rendering API the universal printer driver generates data written in Page Description Language PDL hereinafter referred to as the PDL data to instruct an image forming apparatus of a model selected from among the multiple models to form an image in accordance with the rendering command. In this exemplary embodiment a portion implemented by the universal printer driver of the terminal apparatus is provided as an example of a print instruction assistance device.

When the PDL data is output by the universal printer driver the spooler receives and spools the PDL data and transmits the spooled PDL data to the image forming apparatus via the communication I F see .

The universal printer driver will now be described in more details. The universal printer driver includes a model selection unit a function selection unit and a function use history memory . The universal printer driver further includes a rendering command accepting unit a model change determination unit a message controller and a PDL data sending unit . In other words the universal printer driver operates thereby allowing the model selection unit the function selection unit the function use history memory the rendering command accepting unit the model change determination unit the message controller and the PDL data sending unit to be implemented in the terminal apparatus .

The model selection unit displays a user interface screen hereinafter referred to as the UI screen for selecting the model of the image forming apparatus specified as an output destination. The UI screen will be described in detail below. The model selection unit accepts the operation of a user or a print instructor on the UI screen to select a model. If the model has been changed the model selection unit acquires a list of functions previously used on the original model and a list of functions of the replacement model from the function use history memory and calls the message controller using the acquired lists as arguments. In this exemplary embodiment the model selection unit is provided as an example of a recognition unit that recognizes a change of a printer to be used for printing and as an example of an acquisition unit that acquires usage record information.

The function selection unit displays a UI screen for selecting a function to be used for output to the image forming apparatus of the model selected by the model selection unit . The UI screen will also be described in detail below. Then the function selection unit accepts the operation of the user on the UI screen to select a function and holds the selected function.

The function use history memory stores a history of use of functions hereinafter referred to as the function use history for each model of image forming apparatus . The function use history will also be described in detail below.

The rendering command accepting unit accepts the rendering command generated by the application for the image forming apparatus which serves as an example of print instruction information via the rendering API . If the rendering command includes information that designates the model of the output destination and the function to be used the rendering command accepting unit calls the model change determination unit using the information as an argument. In addition the rendering command accepting unit translates the rendering command into the PDL output format that the image forming apparatus supports and adds a control command in accordance with the selected function to generate PDL data which will be output to the image forming apparatus of the selected model.

The model change determination unit determines whether or not the model has been changed in accordance with the information that designates a model which is received from the rendering command accepting unit and the function use history stored in the function use history memory . If the model has been changed the model change determination unit acquires a list of functions previously used on the original model and a list of functions of the replacement model from the function use history memory and calls the message controller using the acquired lists as arguments. In this exemplary embodiment the model change determination unit is provided as an example of a recognition unit that recognizes a change of a printer to be used for printing and as an example of an acquisition unit that acquires usage record information.

The message controller compares the list of functions previously used on the original model with the list of functions of the replacement model and displays on the display device a function not provided by the replacement model among the functions previously used on the original model. Then control is returned to the caller. In this exemplary embodiment the message controller is provided as an example of an output unit that outputs information indicating a function.

The processing units described above are implemented by using software and hardware resources in combination. Specifically for example the CPU reads a program that implements the model selection unit the function selection unit the rendering command accepting unit the model change determination unit the message controller and the PDL data sending unit onto the main memory from the HDD and executes the read program to implement the processing units described above. The function use history memory is implemented by for example the HDD .

The drop down list displays options which include for example a model A a model B and a model C. These models are the same company s models with high frequency of use and are selectable. The Other Models option is also displayed and is selected to present a screen not illustrated that allows the user to select for example the same company s model with low frequency of use. It is assumed that the universal printer driver has installed therein as modules dedicated printer drivers supporting the models selectable via the options described above. When a model is selected by the model selection unit the function selection unit and the rendering command accepting unit perform the operation defined by the dedicated printer driver supporting the selected model.

The Common to All Models option is also displayed in the drop down list . The Common to All Models option is selected when for example a dedicated printer driver supporting the same company s desired model to be used is not installed. It is assumed that the universal printer driver has installed therein as a module a general purpose printer driver that provides only functions common to the same company s models. When the Common to All Models option is selected by the model selection unit the function selection unit and the rendering command accepting unit perform the operation defined by the general purpose printer driver.

The Basic Mode option is also displayed in the drop down list . The Basic Mode option is selected when for example the universal printer driver does not have installed therein a dedicated printer driver supporting the desired model to be used regardless of whether the desired model to be used is the same company s model or not. It is assumed that the universal printer driver has installed therein as a module a basic mode printer driver that provides only minimum functions to use. When the Basic Mode option is selected by the model selection unit the function selection unit and the rendering command accepting unit perform the operation defined by the basic mode printer driver.

First the operation of the model selection unit in the universal printer driver to select a model will be described. It is also assumed here that as described above printer drivers in the universal printer driver are switched from the dedicated printer driver for the model A to the dedicated printer driver for the model B. is a flowchart illustrating an example of the operation of the model selection unit in the above described case.

As illustrated in the model selection unit displays a model selection screen illustrated in on the display device step S and accepts the operation of the user on the model selection screen to select the model of the output destination by using the input device step S .

Then the model selection unit determines whether or not the model has been changed by the operation of selecting the model of the output destination step S . If it is determined that the model has not been changed the process ends. If it is determined that the model has been changed the model selection unit searches the function use history memory and determines whether or not the function use history for the replacement model after the change has been stored step S . If it is determined that the function use history for the replacement model has been stored in the function use history memory the process proceeds to step S. If it is determined that the function use history for the replacement model has not been stored in the function use history memory the model selection unit reserves an area for storing the function use history for the replacement model in the function use history memory step S . Then the model selection unit records information for example the model name that identifies the replacement model and a list of functions provided by the replacement model in the reserved area of the function use history memory in the manner illustrated in step S .

The function use history memory has recorded thereon together with the list of functions provided by the model the usage record indicating whether or not each of the functions provided by the model has been previously used. The operation for recording a usage record on the function use history memory will be described below.

Then the model selection unit acquires a list of functions of the replacement model from the function use history memory step S and also acquires a list of functions previously used on the original model from the function use history memory step S .

Then the model selection unit calls the message controller step S using as arguments the list of functions of the replacement model which is acquired in step S and the list of functions previously used on the original model which is acquired in step S.

For example it is assumed that the information illustrated in has been stored in the function use history memory at the time when step S of is completed where the model A is the original model before the change and the model B is the replacement model. Then at the time when step S of is completed the arguments used to call the message controller are arguments and illustrated in . The argument is a list of functions previously used on the original model which is obtained by extracting functions with the usage record marked YES from the functions defined in the function usage record in the function use history of the original model. The argument is a list of functions of the replacement model which is a list of functions defined in the function usage record in the function use history of the replacement model.

The operation of the message controller will now be described. The message controller performs a process based on the list of functions previously used on the original model which is passed as the argument and the list of functions of the replacement model which is passed as the argument to extract functions which are included in the list of functions previously used on the original model and which are not included in the list of functions of the replacement model. For example if the list of functions previously used on the original model is indicated in the argument and the list of functions of the replacement model is indicated by the argument four functions that is A3 size paper two hole punching two staples on A4 size long edge and two staples on A4 size short edge are extracted as a function difference . Then the message controller displays the extracted functions on the display device as functions that have been previously used on the original model but are not available on the replacement model . In the illustrated example as illustrated in a message indicating that the four functions that is A3 size paper two hole punching two staples on A4 size long edge and two staples on A4 size short edge are not available is displayed. Then the message controller returns control to the caller.

Accordingly information on the selected model is transferred from the model selection unit to the function selection unit and the function selection unit displays the print setting screens illustrated in corresponding to the selected model on the display device . When the user performs the operation of selecting a function to be used from among the functions provided by the model on the print setting screens by using the input device the function selection unit accepts the operation. For a function selected by the function selection unit the usage record marked YES is recorded in the function use history of the selected model on the function use history memory .

The operation of the universal printer driver to instruct the image forming apparatus to perform a printing operation will now be described.

In some cases the universal printer driver may receive a rendering command including information that designates the model of the output destination and the function to be used from the application and may perform an instruction for printing in accordance with the rendering command. In this case the rendering command accepting unit calls the model change determination unit using the designated model and function as arguments. is a flowchart illustrating an example of the operation of the model change determination unit called in the manner described above.

As illustrated in the model change determination unit checks the designated model against the model that is stored in the function use history memory and that has most recently been used step S and determines whether the two models are different or not that is whether the model has been changed or not step S . If it is determined that the model has not been changed the process proceeds to step S. If it is determined that the model has been changed the model change determination unit searches the function use history memory and determines whether or not the function use history for the replacement model after the change has been stored step S . If it is determined that the function use history for the replacement model has been stored in the function use history memory the process proceeds to step S. If it is determined that the function use history for the replacement model has not been stored in the function use history memory the model change determination unit reserves an area for storing the function use history for the replacement model in the function use history memory step S . Then the model change determination unit records information for example the model name that identifies the replacement model and a list of functions provided by the replacement model in the reserved area of the function use history memory in the manner illustrated in step S .

The function use history memory has recorded thereon together with the list of functions provided by the model the usage record indicating whether or not each of the functions provided by the model has been previously used. The operation for recording a usage record on the function use history memory will be described below.

Then the model change determination unit acquires a list of functions of the replacement model from the function use history memory step S and also acquires a list of functions previously used on the original model from the function use history memory step S .

Then the model change determination unit calls the message controller step S using as arguments the list of functions of the replacement model which is acquired in step S and the list of functions previously used on the original model which is acquired in step S.

Then the message controller extracts based on the list of functions previously used on the original model and the list of functions of the replacement model which are passed as arguments functions which are included in the list of functions previously used on the original model and which are not included in the list of functions of the replacement model. Then the message controller displays the extracted functions on the display device as functions that have been previously used on the original model but are not available on the replacement model . Then the message controller returns control to the caller.

Thus the model change determination unit records the usage record marked YES for the designated functions in the function use history of the designated model on the function use history memory step S . Then the model change determination unit returns control to the caller.

Accordingly the rendering command accepting unit translates the rendering command into the PDL output format that the image forming apparatus supports and adds a control command in accordance with the designated function to generate PDL data. Then the rendering command accepting unit outputs the PDL data to the PDL data sending unit . Then the PDL data sending unit sends the PDL data to the image forming apparatus of the designated model via the spooler and the communication I F see .

If the rendering command received from the application via the rendering API does not include information that designates the model of the output destination and the function to be used the rendering command accepting unit uses the default model and function or the model selected by the model selection unit and the function selected by the function selection unit as a designated model and function. Which of them is used as a designated model and function is a matter of implementation. Then the rendering command accepting unit generates PDL data in the way described above without calling the model change determination unit . Then the PDL data sending unit sends the PDL data to the image forming apparatus of the designated model.

In this exemplary embodiment the function use history memory stores a function use history for each model and outputs in response to a change of the model a message indicating a function which is not available on the replacement model after the change among the functions previously used on the original model. This is not intended to be limiting in any way. For example the function use history memory may store a function use history for each image forming apparatus and output in response to a change of the image forming apparatus a message indicating a function not available on the replacement image forming apparatus after the change among the functions previously used on the original image forming apparatus . Accordingly even if an image forming apparatus of a given model is changed to another image forming apparatus of the same model a message indicating a function not available on the replacement image forming apparatus after the change among the functions previously used on the original image forming apparatus is output.

In this exemplary embodiment furthermore the function use history memory does not store a function use history for each user. The function use history memory may store a function use history for each user. That is the information illustrated in which is stored in the function use history memory may be information on a given user and other information having the same format as that illustrated in may be stored as information on another user. In this case the operation described above may be performed with reference to the function use history for a login user.

In this exemplary embodiment furthermore the universal printer driver recognizes switching of models for the output destination at the time when a model is selected on the UI screen illustrated in or at the time when a rendering command including information that designates the model of the output destination is received. However this is not intended to be limiting in any way.

For example the universal printer driver may recognize switching of models for the output destination if a model different from the model having the most recent use date and time which is recorded on the function use history memory is selected at various points in time such as when the UI screen of the universal printer driver is opened or when a printing operation is performed.

In some cases the universal printer driver may perform the following operation If a dedicated printer driver for the model designated as the output destination is present on the network the universal printer driver installs and uses the dedicated printer driver and if a dedicated printer driver for the model designated as the output destination is not present on the network the universal printer driver uses the general purpose printer driver installed therein. In a case where the universal printer driver performs the above described operation the universal printer driver may recognize switching of models for the output destination in response to as a trigger the selection of the general purpose printer driver because of no dedicated printer driver present on the network .

In the manner described above this exemplary embodiment may be applied to switching of printer drivers in the universal printer driver from for example the dedicated printer driver for the model A to the general purpose printer driver. In this case in step S of FIG. and step S of a list of functions provided by the general purpose printer driver may be acquired in place of a list of functions of the replacement model.

In this exemplary embodiment furthermore the universal printer driver informs the user of functions which are not included in the functions of the replacement model among the functions previously used on the original model. This is not intended to be limiting in any way. For example the user may be informed of functions which are not included in the functions of the replacement model among the functions of the original model whose frequency of use is greater than or equal to a predetermined value. Alternatively for more general application the user may be informed of functions which are not included in the functions of the replacement model among the functions identified in accordance with the usage record of the original model.

A program that implements this exemplary embodiment may be provided via a communication unit or may also be stored in a recording medium such as a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and provided.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the present invention has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments and with the various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

