---

title: Location-based messaging
abstract: Systems and methods are described for location based messaging. In one embodiment a mobile device is configured to receive a first recipient selection input identifying a second mobile device, a first content message associated with the first recipient selection input, and a first geofence input associated with the first content message, wherein the first geofence input identifies a first delivery area. The mobile device then initiates communication of the first content message from the mobile device to the second mobile device via a network, wherein the first content message is configured for presentation on the second mobile device when the second mobile device is within the first delivery area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628950&OS=09628950&RS=09628950
owner: Investment Asset Holdings LLC
number: 09628950
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150112
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional 61 926 324 titled LOCATION BASED MESSAGING AND CONTENT PLATFORM filed on Jan. 12 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This application relates generally to mobile messaging systems and more specifically to methods systems and devices to enable location based messages to be generated by a user for receipt by a selected recipient when the selected recipient is within a location associated with a message.

The ever increasing use of smart phones and other mobile devices with data connections and location determination capabilities is slowly changing the way people interact. Such mobile devices can provide users with nearly universal connections to a network. Such mobile devices also commonly include mechanisms such as global positioning system GPS receivers and network assisted location services that allow the devices to determine location information. Embodiments described herein relate to the use of such mobile devices for location based messaging.

Example systems and methods are described for location based communications. In particular certain example embodiments show communications generated by a user on a mobile device that are configured to be made available to a selected recipient when that recipient is within a target location. Certain embodiments provide systems for both sending and receiving location based content to a user defined audience with individual recipients identified by a sender using a sender s contacts.

For example in one embodiment a user may want to send a location based message to a roommate reminding the roommate to pick up pet food when the roommate is at the store. Prior to the message being generated the user and the roommate that is to receive the message each separately register devices with separate location based messaging accounts. As part of each registration process the user and the message recipient may each download an application for location based messaging to their respective registered devices. Additionally the roommate enables the sender to target the recipient s device or devices with location based messages. The user is then able to generate a location based message from the user s device targeting the roommate s device.

As part of generation of a location based message the user then inputs an identifier for the roommate to the user s device. The identifier is used to identify the roommate as the message recipient. The user also inputs information to select a delivery area as part of the location based message generation. Message content is then associated with the identifier and the delivery area. This may be a text message saying remember the pet food an image such as a picture of an empty pet food bag or a video of a pet in front of an empty food bowl. In various embodiments the delivery of the message may be performed in a variety of different ways as described below. In one example embodiment the roommate s device may notify the roommate that a message will be available when the roommate is at the store without providing the message content until the roommate is within the delivery area. When the roommate s device uses location management features of the device to identify that the device is within the delivery area then the message content will be made available for display on the roommate s device.

A location based message provides the benefit of presenting the message to the user when the recipient is in the most relevant context to receive the message rather than presenting the message to the recipient and then relying on the recipient to remember the message when the recipient is in the appropriate context that was related to the message. There are many additional use cases for such location based messages in both personal and business settings. Non limiting additional examples include leaving reminders for contacts at specific locations reinforcing network contacts with communications when they are in relevant locations delivery of location specific content to interested individuals reaching out to interested consumers in a given location and many other communication types.

Wireless devices and are configured to communicate with each other and with other devices via a wireless connection to a communication node . Communication node may be any access point cellular node or other source of wireless access to network . Wireless connection may be enabled via any communication standard or protocol such as IEEE 802.11 3GPP LTE Bluetooth mesh networks beacons or any other such communication method.

Network then provides access to cloud server computer . Network may include a local area network a wide area network or the Internet and may comprise any number of communication devices. In certain embodiments cloud server computer may manage system accounts and identifiers used for location based communications. Cloud server computer may also provide map information and network based location assistance that may be used as part of location based communications described herein.

Each messaging module manages both outbound and inbound location based communications. In the embodiment of each messaging module includes data service module a data storage module a location manager module and a user interface module. As illustrated messaging module includes data service module data storage module user interface UI module and location manager module . Similarly messaging module includes data service module data storage module UI module and location manager module .

UI modules and manage the receipt of inputs from input devices such as input device UI navigation device or any sources of user input data generated by a user interacting with a mobile device on which the corresponding messaging module for each UI module and are operating. This includes user inputs selecting a message recipient identifier. This includes user inputs identifying a geofence or boundary area which is used to delineate a delivery area. This also includes input commands used to generate or select elements of a content message that is part of a location based communication such as text inputs image selection video selection generation of graphics or illustrations as part of a user input or any other such data that may be part of a content message. UI modules and may also manage output of notifications on an output of a mobile device including audio alerts display of content messages when a mobile device is within a delivery area display of interface options mobile device vibrations and any other such output elements described herein.

Location manager modules and manage location measurements of a mobile device based on default settings and user selections received from a corresponding UI module. Location manager modules and may thus initiate location measurements using global navigation satellite system GNSS elements and measurements of a mobile device network based location measurements or any other such location measurement or combination of location measurements. Additionally in certain embodiments location manager modules and may use geofence information to determine location states as inside or outside of a geofence or delivery area. A geofence as described herein refers to data that defines a spatial boundary. A geofence may define a delivery area such that when a location manager module determines that a mobile device is within a geofence that defines the delivery area a content message associated with that delivery is made available on the mobile device. Location manager modules and may thus both determine a location of a mobile device and determine whether the location is within a geofence as part of receipt of a message for display on a receiving mobile device. Such geofence areas may be defined by user inputs received at a UI module or may be stored as previously define locations in data storage modules.

Data storage modules and manage local storage of any data that is associated with location based communications described herein. This may include any identifier information message content information location information system setting information or any other such information associated with any embodiment described herein.

Data service modules and manage transmission and receipt of information associated with location based communication on a corresponding mobile device. This includes communication of geofence or delivery area information communication of message content information and interaction with other mobile devices and or cloud based server computers that are associated with a communication process. Data service modules and may additionally manage registration information and communications with other users to establish contact settings that enable a user of a device to send and or receive location based messages involving another user.

Method is performed by a mobile device such as mobile device having one or more processors such as processor and memory such as main memory and static memory . Method which is a location based method for communication begins with operation involving receiving at an input device of a first mobile device a first recipient selection input identifying a second mobile device where the first mobile device is different than the second mobile device and the second mobile device is associated with a first identifier value. The input device may be a touch screen interface a microphone with voice recognition processing element a physical keyboard or any other such input device that may be used with a mobile device. The first identifier value may be a previously generated identifier value as described in more detail below. The first mobile device executes messaging module and the second mobile device executes messaging module . The first identifier may be stored in data storage module and presented as part of UI module or may be received at data service from cloud based server computer .

Operation then involves receiving at the input device of the first mobile device a first content message associated with the first recipient selection input. This may involve receipt of a keyboard text input a drawing input on a touch screen an image or video input from a camera or a file of data storage a sound input or any other such input that may be used to generate the content message.

Operation then involves receiving at the input device of the first mobile device a first geofence input associated with the first content message wherein the first geofence input identifies a first delivery area. The first geofence input may be input as text describing latitude and longitude coordinates with an associated radius. In certain embodiments location manager module may be used to generate a geofence associated with a current or previous location of the mobile device. In other embodiments data storage may store data for a geofence that may be selected by a user input via UI module . In other embodiments geofence information may be received via data service from cloud based server computer . The first geofence input is associated with the first content message based on selections entered by a user via UI module and the mobile device input device or devices. Such inputs also select a geofence associated with the first geofence input as the first delivery area. In certain embodiments a single message may be associated with multiple delivery areas.

Operation then involves initiating communication of the first content message from the first mobile device to the second mobile device via a network wherein the first content message is configured for presentation on the second mobile device when the second mobile device is within the first delivery area. In various alternative embodiments this may initiate a communication directly from a first mobile device to a second mobile device or this may initiate a communication from first mobile device to a cloud server computer or . In one potential embodiment this may initiate a single message service SMS text message to the second mobile device from the first mobile device wherein the SMS text message indicates the availability of the first content message in the first delivery area. This SMS text message may then be used by second mobile device to download or otherwise access messaging service . Such an embodiment may particularly be used where a second mobile device has not registered with a location based messaging service at the time that the content message is generated on the first mobile device .

In addition to the above described selections for generating a location based message in certain embodiments a message sender may mark a message for future delivery in the event the sender does not want the recipient to view the message until a certain date. Users can designate messages as recurring in order for the intended recipient to receive the content on an ongoing basis once arriving at a location. Finally a user can stipulate whether a message is sent to recipients once the recipient gets to the desired location or conversely when the sender gets to the intended location e.g. send a message to pre selected individuals when the sender arrives at the airport etcetera . Each of these may be presented as options by a messaging module during generation of a location based communication.

Further in addition to user generated content users can purchase premium content to be delivered through the messaging module. This content can be in the form of themed messages e.g. new map icons custom drawings and etcetera or pre packaged location based content e.g. NYC tourist pack US history pack Celebrity sightings pack and etcetera . Users may also download checklists that are accomplished upon reaching the designated locations e.g. airports of the USA natural wonders of the world Michelin starred restaurants and etcetera . The Application can also be used to facilitate peer to peer payments e.g. buying a gift card for a recipient at a given location purchasing a dessert for a contact at a given restaurant transferring funds to a recipient once they reach a location etcetera . Users may receive coupons and offers from businesses and service providers of potential interest once the user is in the vicinity of the participating location. Finally the Application may have an API that will allow 3parties to use the Application s technology to deliver content on a location enabled basis.

As mentioned above multiple different methods may be used to communicate and present a content message on a second recipient mobile device after the communication is initiated by a first mobile device. describes one embodiment for such a communication. For the purposes of illustration method of is described as a continuation of method above and is described in the context of . Method may be used with method and may also be used with additional methods. Additionally method may be used with other different communication methods than method .

Method begins with operation involving a location based drop message being created on first mobile device . In one embodiment operation may be the same as method . In other embodiments different methods may be used to generate a location based message.

Operation then involves first mobile device uploading the content message to a cloud server computer using data service module . The cloud server computer will receive from the first mobile device a location based message comprising the first identifier value the first content message and the first delivery area. This location based message is received in response to the communication initiated in operation .

Operation then involves any recipient devices being notified of the available content message including notifying the second mobile device using a push message of the location based message. In alternative embodiment rather than cloud server computer pushing a notification of the message the cloud server computer may simply automatically push a copy of the content message with information about the first delivery area to second mobile device .

In operation second mobile device synchronizes an unfound message list with could server computer using data service module . This synchronization may be performed in response to the push notification from operation in response to a periodic message check in response to a new network connection establishing for example wireless connection or based on any other such trigger to perform a message synchronization with cloud server computer . This synchronization verifies that the second mobile device has information about the first delivery area which may be used to determine when to move the content message that is part of the location based communication to a found list. In one embodiment this may involve receiving at the second mobile device the push message and synchronizing by the second mobile device an unfound message list with the cloud server computer to receive the location based message from the cloud server computer.

In operation location manager receives information about a location change of second mobile device that is operating messaging module . Such a callback on location change may involve GNSS measurements network based location measurements device sensors or any other such means of determining a location change.

Operation may further involve location manager determining a location of second mobile device and comparing that location with the first delivery area identified by a geofencing input of first mobile device when the location based message was created. If the second mobile device is outside the first delivery area the process repeats operations and until the second mobile device is within the first delivery area until the message expires or is terminated.

In operation after the location manager module determines that the second mobile device is within the first delivery area the messaging module adds the content message to a local found list within data storage module . In various embodiments a single mobile device may have multiple different unfound messages within a list at any given time. Operations through may check each delivery area associated with each unfound message as part of a single operation and may repeat this process until every unfound message is terminated or found.

In operation after messaging module adds the found message to a local found list a message status is updated at could server computer . In operation a notification is provided on second mobile device that a message has been found and the content message is available for output on the second mobile device .

In another example embodiment the message is created on the user s device. Then the message is uploaded to the cloud. Once the message is in the cloud the intended recipient device s of available data via Apple or similar push notification service APNS . After receiving the notification the recipient device s sync their unfound message list with the data available in the cloud. Once the message is stored on a user s unfound list the messaging module on a user s device will receive feedback as the user s location changes. As soon as the user gets within the intended delivery radius as determined by a location manager module of the messaging module the user s device outputs a notification that the user found the message and a message status is updated in the cloud. In alternative embodiment the back end configuration may be modified such that messages are pulled from the intended user s device rather than pushed. Additionally in another embodiment the message including the location data may be immediately provided to the intended recipient s mobile device only becoming visible or available to the intended recipient device once it enters the specified location radius. Thus in addition to hidden messages that are only received from a cloud server computer once a recipient enters the stipulated delivery radius of a given location users may also toggle between leaving location specific content on a recipient s map that appears irrespective of the recipient s location. In the event the sender leaves the message on this visible basis the sender can further choose between showing the full message and marker or simply showing the marker without message to encourage the recipient to move to the location in order to view the content. If the marker is shown without the content message the content message may be stored locally or may be stored on a cloud server computer without a copy of the content message being stored at the mobile device until the message is found by the mobile device entering the delivery area around the marker.

Installation illustrates aspects of a location based messaging system related to placement of a messaging module such as messaging module on a mobile device such as mobile device . Installation includes a number of different value elements. Identifier ID is associated with a unique identifier for each system element. Each instance of system element and may have an identifier assigned by a system to enable management of each record.

Additionally each user may have an associated user element such as user user user user and user that enables the system to track which user is associated with various communications or data instances in a system. Such a user identifier may be assigned by a system upon user registration. For example a cloud server computer such as cloud server computer may assign an user identifier when a user interacts with the cloud server computer as part of a registration process. Each instance of a system element including installation user drop drop share dropped comments user friends and user request which is generated by the user actions may include the user s assigned identifier whenever an a data record using a particular structure element format is created. Such a user identifier is present in the various structure elements as owner user user user user and user . Such user identifiers may be user generated values as part of registration e mail values phone number values or values associated with other systems or networks such as Facebook Twitter or other such social network identifiers uniquely associated with an individual user. Each of these user elements associates corresponding system element with a particular user based on the value in the user element. The use of element IDs and user identifying elements enables system to be manage data by having a unique ID associated with each data record in a structure element format.

Additionally each system element may include security or control features. The embodiment of system includes access control list ACL value elements for each system element. These ACL value elements determine which sources have read and write access to the information in a particular data instance any system element described herein. As shown drop comments includes ACL user includes ACL drop is includes ACL drop comments includes ACL user friends includes ACL user requests includes ACL and drop share includes ACL .

Application identifier application name and application version are identifier values associated with an installation of a messaging module and may be used for system management and updates to a messaging module. Badge is a value that may be used for security and integrity verification of a messaging module. Channels may be used to store information about channels in a communication system that may be used by a mobile device on which a messaging module installation may operate. Device token and device type may be associated with descriptions or details of a mobile device on which a messaging module is installed. Installation and parse version may provide identifiers for a particular installation session or version that was used to place a messaging module on a mobile device and may be used for system troubleshooting. Owner may be an identifier associated particularly with a mobile device on which a messaging module is placed and may further be used for situations in which multiple user accounts or installations may be placed on a single mobile device. Createdate and updatedate may store timing details associated with placement of a messaging module or update of a messaging module on a mobile device.

In various embodiments each of these element values may be stored as part of a system element structure either in a local data storage such as data storage as part of messaging module or they may be stored on a cloud server computer such as cloud server computer . In other embodiments multiple copies of such elements may be stored in multiple locations.

User illustrates aspects of a user record that may be generated upon the user registering with the system to be able to send location based communications as described above for example in methods and . As shown in system the example embodiment user includes ID which may be similar to ID . Username may be a login username generated by a user to provide the user access to system. This may be part of a login used to gain access to a messaging module such as messaging module . Password may similarly be a password selected by a user on registration as part of security and identity protection with location based communications. Additional elements of user may include details associated with the user s identity including authorization data email verification birthday first name last name normalized first name normalized last name email and phone . In other embodiments additional information about a user a user s contacts and other profile information may be stored as part of a user system element. Additionally user elements may store location preferences for a user. For example as described in more detail below with respect to a system record such as user may include record elements for multiple locations. Each location stored in the user record may have a location elements used to identify the location as well as associated latitude and longitude elements that identify coordinates for the physical location associated with location elements. Created at element and updated at element may store information identifying a date and time when a user element was initially generated and when any element value of user was updated.

Drop is a system element associated with a particular location based message. Each location based message sent via a communication system using system includes a drop element. An instance of drop may for example be generated using method described above. ID elements comprise an identifier associated with the user and user elements include additional information identifying a user that generates the location based message associated with drop . Message elements are element values that store text or other portions of a content message that are part of a location based message. Image data may be a separate record for a portion of the content message that includes picture images or video images as part of a content message in a location based communication. Friend list may include a recipient or a set of recipients targeted as recipients of a location based communication associated with drop . Radius location latitude and longitude are each aspects or details of a delivery area associated with a location based message as described herein. Thus as described above when a user generates a location based message a messaging module may automatically generate a drop element. This may automatically include the generating a message ID value in ID as well as a sender ID in user . The user will also identify a recipient from a friends list using the friend list . The user will input a message that will be stored in a message element an image data element or both. The user will also input a geofence input that generates information that may be stored or selected from location or radius latitude and longitude . Each of these element values is received via an input device of a mobile device and passed to a messaging module for storage as part of a location based message data record. In certain embodiments the geofencing input may include combination of a selection of a previously known location as well as user input radius or coordinate information. All of this information may be aggregated in a drop element as part of a location based communication. Additionally in certain embodiments drop elements may store a date and time of creation of the message in created at . In certain embodiments a location based message may be updated either before or after it is found by a recipient. When a location based message is updated by a sender updated at element may store data in times of updates as well as details of changes to the location based message of a particular instance of drop .

Drop comments is an example of an implementation of location based communications that uses a record for social comments to be stored and shared about previously sent location based messages. Each instance of a drop comment may have a unique ID . Each drop comment may also include the details of a comment in the comment which may be similar to a content message described herein such as a text message an image or a video. Drop may include an identifier which details which drop is associated with a particular drop comment . For example drop may include an ID from an ID element of the particular drop location based message. Drop comments includes a user element which identifies a user that generates a drop comment . Drop comments additionally includes created at and updated at elements for recording details of creation and update times and details.

User friends includes an identifier which may be a unique value for each instance of user friends . Friends user may include a list of contacts for a user identified by user elements which identifies the user associated with the user friends instance. User friends elements may have additional details about the connection between users or about either user individually including details about the activity state of either user in is active . User friends elements may also include details about which user initiated the connection associated with user friends in use user initiated as well as details about when the connection was established or updated in created at and updated at .

User request elements illustrate an implementation of system records in certain embodiments that are associated with user initiated requests for connections to other users. Examples of such requests are described in more detail below with respect to . The embodiment described in system of user requests includes an ID for each user requests instance a user element that identifies a user that initiates a connection request a user request element identifying the target or recipient of the user request request email element detailing connection information about users a status that may detail whether a request has been accepted or not and created at and updated at elements detailing when a user request was initiated or updated.

Drop share illustrates aspects of an embodiments where a recipient of a location based message may share a found location based message. In such embodiments when a location based message is presented to a recipient the recipient may use an interface element to relay the location based message to additional users. Drop share is thus similar to drop but is for a location based message that was previously generated and is being shared by a recipient of the previously generated location based message. ID is an identifier element for each instance of a drop share element. Created by provides information about the recipient that is sharing the received location based message. Drop drop status drop updated on drop name and other elements through include details about the previously created location based message that is being shared by the recipient user as well as some details about the originally generating user the sharing user and details about the location based message status related to the users.

While system illustrates one implementation of aspects of location based communications in various other embodiments additional combinations of elements different structural elements or different element values may be used as part of a system for location based communications.

While certain example devices are described herein it will be understood that various embodiments can be used on all mobile technology platforms as well as wearable devices and may be implemented using any combination of hardware and or software. Further in addition to being implemented using a mobile technology platform and wearable devices the various embodiments described herein are not limited as such. For example the certain embodiments may be hard wired in an automobile or any other like implementation. Further rather than being implemented on a mobile device various embodiments may be also be implemented using stand alone hardware and or software. Additionally certain embodiments may be implemented as computer readable instructions stored within non transitory computer readable media. This includes any non transitory memory described herein.

In certain embodiments when a user first downloads the a messaging module such as messaging module to a user s mobile device the user will be required to setup an account. depicts user interface of an initial sign up screen when a user creates an account according to one embodiment. Such account generation may be performed using a messaging module communicating with a cloud server computer. As shown a user is prompted to enter their first and last name as entry on an input device of a mobile device. Additional information may be entered as entries . Such entries may include current city which may be configured to populate automatically as well as and birthday. Other such entries may also be includes such as a profile picture. Additionally in one embodiment account creation involves selection of login information which will allow the user to access the account via a messaging module from any applicable device. In certain embodiments certain elements of this information may also be used as an identifier for generating a location based communication. For example a first or last name or an e mail address may be used by senders to select a particular user as a recipient of a location based communication. In other embodiments other values such as a phone number a third part account identifier a user generated image or picture a photograph or a user generated name may be used as identifiers.

In certain embodiments users have the ability to add saved addresses to his or her profile for other users to view in order to optimize the process of sending and receiving messages. One embodiment of this may be storing a location within location as described above for implementations using system . These saved locations can be any location such as a home work favorite bar nearest airport or any other such location and users are able to designate and save locations they will be visiting in the future e.g. vacation destinations football game etc. . Once a user adds an upcoming location in his or her profile via a mobile device UI such as UI the user s profile will appear as updated at the top of his or her contact s friend screens in order to allow efficient message creation with minimal clicks. In certain implementations such information may be sent to data storage modules or location manager modules of messaging modules for use in generating geofence inputs to identify delivery areas for messages. Users can control which other users have access to saved addresses via system settings.

In addition to the inclusion of addresses in certain embodiments a registration process may allow a user to determine different types and sources of location based communications that the user wants to receive on their account. For example a user may select individuals that they wish to receive location based messages from either as part of registration or in response to a request from the other user as described above and below. Additionally a user may wish to subscribe to curated groups or to location based message groups where location based messages will be propagated to any user that has opted into the group.

For example one embodiment may involve receiving at a cloud server computer from a first mobile device a first add group request wherein the message acceptance communication is associated with a location based message group receiving at the cloud server computer from a third mobile device a location based message directed to the location based message group communicating from the cloud server computer to the first mobile device the location based message in response to a determination that the second mobile device is associated with the location based message group. Subsequent messages from third and fourth devices received at the server that are directed to the location based message group will be directed to the first device. Similarly a mobile device may receive a user input including an identifier associated with a location based message group communicate an add group request using the identifier to a cloud server computer and then received location based messages in response to communication of the add group request to the cloud server computer. Location based messages may be delivered from the location based server to the first mobile device as part of group messages in any manner described herein including message delivery upon the device finding the message location or delivery area information delivered without the content message until the device is within the delivery area or full message delivery stored on the device prior to the device being within the delivery area with the message not being available in a found message UI of a messaging module until the device is within the delivery area.

Such group messaging may be integrated with any other embodiment described herein as a messaging option both for location based message transmission and for receipt of location based messages.

In one embodiment registration may additionally involve user interface of where a user is asked to input their phone number which enhances the user s ability to be found by other contacts using the system. If a user opts into submitting their phone number the messaging module or other module involved in registration may to auto generate a text message the user needs to send in order to authenticate the phone number. User interface of illustrates an example of an auto generated message that may be used for authentication of a phone number by a system.

Once a user has signed up for an account they will have the ability to leave messages and content using location based messages. then illustrates on example interface including a user s map screen displaying a map and a center element . Using interface a user can either search for an address to leave a message. Alternatively a user may use an input to center the map on his or her current location . Additionally a user can drag and pinch the map to manually select a location using map information within a messaging module or an associated map module. In one embodiment interface may enable users to move between the various tabs by swiping the screen in the designated direction. Swipes from the map screen may in certain embodiments be on the bottom of the screen in order to avoid interfering with the map interface.

User interface of illustrates a search interface. From this interface a user has the ability to search for specific locations anywhere in the world using search or to select previously used locations . Alternatively a user is able to select addresses directly from the intended recipient s profile if the selected recipient has saved locations. Once a user has selected a location the user can mark the location by selecting the center element . Holding the center element will either allow the user to quickly save the highlighted location or to define the message delivery radius with a visual indicator on the map as part of a geofence input.

In the embodiments described in once the center element is selected then user interface shown in will be displayed. Here user inputs to an input device of a mobile device can modify the name of the delivery area identified by the selected geofence add text or other data to the content message as well as include a picture video or other custom content . Users are able to input commands via UI to a mobile device to update or edit content messages and edit draw and add text to pictures and videos as part of a location based communication using custom content . In addition to user generated content various embodiments may include pre populated pictures and content that users may include in messages.

The embodiment of user interface includes a boundary adjustment input . In certain embodiments after selecting a location as described above users have the ability to select the delivery radius with a visual indicator for which the delivery of the message will be triggered once a selected recipient is in range.

User interface illustrates an embodiment where a messaging module is configured to allow users have the ability to select one or multiple recipients using a recipient selection checkbox in addition to having the option to leave messages for themselves with a self selection checkbox . In certain embodiments this includes the ability for a sender of the message to stipulate whether to leave the message at every type of a certain location e.g. every Starbucks identified by map data that the messaging module has access to at each of the selected recipients specific homes etcetera . The sender is also able to state whether the message expires after a specified period of time either before or after opening. In certain embodiments in the event an intended recipient is not registered with the system the messaging module includes a configuration to allow a user have the ability to include an unregistered recipient on messages at which point the unregistered recipient will receive either an SMS or email indicating he or she has received a message from the user at the selected location. A messaging module may also include a configuration option to leave messages to followers as well as to the broader public. In certain embodiments public messages will only be received by users that have opted into receiving public content.

User interface of illustrates push notification which may be used in certain embodiments. As described above in certain embodiments once a user is in the delivery radius of a message that has been left for the user the user will receive a push notification from a cloud server computer. Such a push notification may have data indicating both the sender of the content in addition to the location geofence or delivery area associated with the content. Messages may also be left for users that are delivered on a time limited basis. If the sender sends a time based message to a recipient the recipient will receive a pin on his or her map wherever the user is when the content delivery time is met. The pin indicator in a recipient mobile device s map UI may appear when a sender selected time period begins and may disappear when the sender selected time period ends. Push notification may include details on a time limit for the message in certain embodiments.

User interface of illustrates one embodiment of a messaging module user interface that may be displayed when a user opens the messaging module on the user s device after receiving the notification such as push notification . In such an embodiment the user will be taken to the log screen where the user will be able to see new messages . New messages may be presented in bold or emphasized formatting. A messaging module may utilize separate colors and symbols to differentiate between sent and received messages in addition to indicating which messages have been responded to. Additionally messages sent from a location where the sender is currently located as opposed to a remote location may appear as a different icon on the map. New actions may be presented on user interface by a badge number on a lower tab. A message module may be configurable to enable users may sort and filter messages by time location sender and receiver amongst other metrics. User interface includes an edit element to quickly remove log entries. In other embodiments such an input may be performed by either swiping left as an input or selecting the edit element .

User interface of illustrates a screen where the user has the ability to see the full message and content message . This includes text content image content and video content. In certain embodiments an interface may also enable output of other content such as audio content. From here a messaging module may be configured for a user to reply to the message using reply element which will send a notification to the sender and as well as show up in the sender s log illustrated by user interface . The reply element may be associated with a pre populated reply. The messaging module may also be configured with ability to customize the response at the user s choosing. Once the sender of a message receives a response the messaging module of the sender s device may be configured with the ability to continue the conversation with the message recipient. For messages sent to more than one recipient messaging modules may be configured such that users are able to choose whether they want to reply directly to the sender or to all recipients. Messaging modules include interfaces such that users included in group messages can collaborate to modify and edit the original message content and so that users have the ability to save messages to a favorites folder for easier access as well as the ability to save the message location to the user s saved locations area in the user s profile. As described above this profile information may both be stored locally as well as shared with the messaging modules of other users.

User interface of illustrates an embodiment where a messaging module enables access to messages through a map display screen showing a user location . In certain embodiments icons on such a user interface are color coded based on whether they were sent such as message or received such as message . In certain embodiments new messages contain blinking icons. Selecting a specific icon pops up the sender and location of the message and selecting the message again will take the user to a message interface. On the map screen users can send a pulse in a pre selected range that allows them to see how many messages are waiting for them in the selected vicinity.

In certain embodiments in order for a user to send and receive messages from specific individuals the user must first add others users to the user s contact list. This may include embodiments where a user may initiate a message by sending an SMS text message or e mail but where the actual message may not be sent until the recipient of the SMS text message or e mail joins the system and adds the sender to the recipients contact list. User interface of illustrates one implementation of a contacts list where a user can both see the user s existing contacts as well as an add new contact interface . A messaging module may be configured such that users can create groups within the friends screen in order to simplify the message sending process. In such an embodiment responses to messages left to groups will be visible by all members of the group even if certain group members are not friends on the messaging module.

User interface of then illustrates an interface providing the ability to search for other users by name or other unique identifier. The search may be input via search element and may show a list of contacts of contacts that are registered on the system so long as the user has the contact s phone number or email address saved in the user s phone contact list. In order to add contacts that are already registered with the location based messaging system a user simply needs to select the add element next to the contact s name. From there a push request will be sent to the selected contact that the contact has the option of either accepting or declining. For a user s phone contacts that are not on the system the user has the option of inviting phone contacts to join the system using invite element from a list of contacts .

User interface then illustrates one embodiment of an interface that may be presented once a phone contact has been invited to join the system. In such an embodiment the user will be directed to user interface where an auto generated message and invitation to join the system can be sent to contact .

Certain embodiments may additionally include a setting interface. Setting interface of includes messaging module configurations to enable users to modify account information on the settings tab. As part of setting interface a user can change the user s profile as well as customize the map display using places icon selection received communications display selection and sent communications display as part of map customization . In certain embodiments in addition to choosing hidden messages that are only received once a recipient enters the stipulated delivery radius of a given location users may also selecting settings to toggle between leaving location specific content on a recipient s map that appears irrespective of the recipient s location. In such embodiments in the event the sender leaves the message on this visible basis the sender can choose between showing the full message and marker or simply showing the marker without message to encourage the recipient to move to the location in order to view the content.

Thus one embodiment may be a method for location based communications comprising receiving at a input device of a first mobile device a first recipient selection input identifying a second mobile device where the first mobile device is different than the second mobile device and the second mobile device is associated with a first identifier value. Such a method may involve receiving at the input device of the first mobile device a first content message associated with the first recipient selection input receiving at the input device of the first mobile device a first geofence input associated with the first content message wherein the first geofence input identifies a first delivery area and initiating communication of the first content message from the first mobile device to the second mobile device via a network wherein the first content message is configured for presentation on the second mobile device when the second mobile device is within the first delivery area.

Additional implementations of such an embodiment may operate where the first identifier is a mobile telephone number or where the first identifier is an e mail address.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may operate where initiating communication of the first content message from the first mobile device to the second mobile device comprises communicating a single message service SMS text message to the second mobile device wherein the SMS text message indicates the availability of the first content message in the first delivery area.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may operate where receiving at the input device of the first mobile device the first geofence input associated with the first content message comprises displaying a map interface on a touch screen of the first mobile device receiving a location selection via the touch screen displaying the map interface the location selection identifying a point within the first delivery area receiving a delivery radius input on the touch screen displaying the map interface wherein the delivery radius defines at least in part a boundary of the first delivery area and displaying a visual indicator of the location selection and the delivery radius on the touch screen display.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may include receiving at the first mobile device a first visible message setting prior to initiating communication of the first content message receiving at the second mobile device a notification identifying the point within the first delivery area and the boundary of the first delivery area displaying at the second mobile device in response to the first visible message setting and a determination that the second mobile device is outside the first delivery area a second map interface comprising a first delivery area representation without displaying the first content message determining by the second mobile device that the second mobile device has moved within the first delivery area and displaying the first content message in response to the determining that the second mobile device has moved within the first delivery area.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may operate by receiving at the input device of the first mobile device an expiration input identifying an expiration time period wherein the expiration input is received at the first mobile device prior to a beginning of the expiration time period and wherein the second map interface comprising the first delivery area representation is only displayed by the second mobile device during the expiration time period.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may operate where receiving at the input device of the first mobile device the first geofence input associated with the first content message comprises receiving a location search input displaying a list of locations in response to the location search input and receiving a location selection input selecting a first location associated with the first delivery area from the list of location.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may operate where receiving at the input device of the first mobile device the first geofence input associated with the first content message comprises displaying in response to the first recipient selection input a list of saved profile locations associated with the first identifier value and receiving a location selection input selecting a first location associated with the first delivery area from the list of saved profile locations.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may operate by receiving at the input device of the first mobile device a second geofence input associated with the first content message the second geofence input comprising a first sender area and determining that the first mobile device is within the first sender area wherein initiating communication of the first content message from the first mobile device to the second mobile device is performed in response to the determining that the first mobile device is within the first sender area.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may operate by prior to receipt of the first recipient selection input at the first mobile device receiving at a cloud server computer from the second mobile device a first registration communication wherein the first user registration communication comprises the first identifier value receiving at the cloud server computer from the first mobile device a first add contact request communicating from the cloud server computer to the second mobile device an add contact request associated with the first mobile device receiving at the cloud server computer from the second mobile device a first add contact acceptance and communicating from the cloud server computer to the second mobile device an add contact acceptance associated with the second mobile device.

Another embodiment may be a mobile device for location based communications. Such a mobile device may include a user input module configured to receive a first recipient selection input identifying a second mobile device wherein the first mobile device is different than the second mobile device and the second mobile device is associated with a first identifier value receive a first content message associated with the first recipient selection input and receive a first geofence input associated with the first content message wherein the first geofence input identifies a first delivery area. Such a mobile device may also include a messaging module communicatively coupled to the user input module wherein the messaging module is configured with at least one processor and a memory of the mobile device and the messaging module is configured to access the first identifier value in response to the first recipient selection input generate a location based message from the first identifier value the first content message and the first geofence input and initiate communication of the first content message as part of the location based message from the first mobile device to the second mobile device via a network wherein the first content message is configured for presentation on the second mobile device when the second mobile device is within the first delivery area.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may include an antenna coupled to the at least one processor with the antenna configured to communicate the location based message via the network and a location manager module configured with the at least one processor and the memory wherein the positioning module is configured to receive position communications and determine a position of the mobile device.

Further implementations of such an embodiment may include an output display coupled to the processor and the memory where the messaging module is further configured to receive a notification via the antenna and the network that a second message associated with a second delivery area has been directed to the first mobile device by a second mobile device determine when the mobile device is within the second delivery area and initiate display of the second message on the output display in response to determination that the mobile device is within the second delivery area.

Another embodiment may be a non transitory computer readable medium comprising computer readable instructions that when executed by at least on processor of a mobile device cause the mobile device to receive at a input device of a mobile device a first recipient selection input identifying a second mobile device wherein the mobile device is different than the second mobile device and the second mobile device is associated with a first identifier value receive at the input device a first content message associated with the first recipient selection input receive at the input device a first geofence input associated with the first content message wherein the first geofence input identifies a first delivery area initiate communication of the first content message from the mobile device to the second mobile device via a network wherein the first content message is configured for presentation on the second mobile device when the second mobile device is within the first delivery area.

Additional implementations of such an embodiment may operate where the instructions further cause the mobile device to send a registration communication to a cloud server computer receive a second location based message from a third mobile device via the could server computer in response to a first visible message setting of the second location based message store the second location based message without generating a user notification to notify a user of the mobile device of the second location based message determine a second delivery area associated with the second location based message determine a current location of the mobile device and generate and output a second location based message notification in response to a determination that the current location of the mobile device is within the second delivery area.

Example computer system machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system machine can further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system machine can additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which can include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a Global Positioning Sensor GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system machine with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium can include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions.

A machine readable storage medium or other storage device can include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . In the case of program code executing on programmable computers the computing device can include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that can implement or utilize the various techniques described herein can use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The instructions can further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific implementations it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the embodiments described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This detailed description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

