---

title: Estimated time of arrival for vehicle navigation
abstract: Arrangements related to determining an estimated time of arrival for vehicle navigation are described. A travel route between an origin and a destination is determined. The travel route includes a toll road. It can be determined whether one or more toll payment areas are located along the toll road. A toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas can be determined. Responsive to receiving an indication of automatic toll payment, the toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas can be adjusted. An estimated time of arrival to the destination can be determined using the adjusted toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas. The determined estimated time of arrival can be presented to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429436&OS=09429436&RS=09429436
owner: Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc.
number: 09429436
owner_city: Erlanger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150113
---
The subject matter described herein relates in general to vehicle navigation and more particularly to determining an estimated time of arrival for vehicle navigation.

Vehicle navigation systems can determine a travel route between an origin and a destination. Some vehicle navigation systems are configured to calculate an estimated time of arrival at the destination. The estimated time of arrival is calculated based on a plurality of factors such as the travel route the total distance posted speed limits current road speeds and or predicted or average vehicle speed along the travel route.

In some instances a portion of a travel route may include one or more toll roads. Toll roads require payment of a fee to drive a vehicle on such roads. The fees are paid at toll payment booths located along the toll road. A driver must stop the vehicle to pay the appropriate toll at each toll payment booth. Backups and delays at toll payment booths may occur. Such stopping backups or delays can affect the accuracy of the determined estimated time of arrival at a destination.

Some toll roads have programs which allow tolls to be automatically paid. In such instances a transponder may be placed within a vehicle. A vehicle equipped with such a transponder can pass through a toll payment booth or a designated automatic toll payment lane. The transponder transmits a signal to or is otherwise detected by sensors positioned with respect to the toll payment booth or the designated automatic toll payment lane. When the transponder is detected the appropriate toll is deducted from or charged to an account associated with the transponder.

In one respect the present disclosure is directed to a method for estimating time of arrival for vehicle navigation. The method can include determining a travel route between an origin and a destination. The travel route can include a toll road. The method can also include determining whether one or more toll payment areas are located along the toll road. The method can further include determining a toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas. Responsive to receiving an indication of automatic toll payment the method can include adjusting the toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas. The method can also include determining an estimated time of arrival to the destination using the adjusted toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas. The method can further include presenting the determined estimated time of arrival to a user. One or more of the above aspects of the method can be performed using a processor.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for determining an estimated time of arrival for vehicle navigation. The system can include a processor. The processor can be programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include determining a travel route between an origin and a destination. The travel route can include a toll road. The executable operations can also include determining whether one or more toll payment areas are located along the toll road. The executable operations can further include determining a toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas. Responsive to receiving an indication of automatic toll payment the executable operations can include adjusting the toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas. The executable operations can include determining an estimated time of arrival to the destination using the adjusted toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas. The executable operations can also include presenting the determined estimated time of arrival to a user.

This detailed description relates to determining an estimated time of arrival for vehicle navigation. More particularly the estimated time of arrival can be determined and or configured for vehicles that are equipped for automatic toll payment e.g. by an automatic toll payment device . In one or more implementations responsive to receiving an indication that tolls will be paid automatically traffic delays associated with toll payment booths along a travel route can be adjusted for purposes of determining the estimated time of arrival. The present detailed description relates to systems methods and computer program products that incorporate such features. In at least some instances such systems methods and computer program products can for example improve the accuracy of the estimated time of arrival determination and or can increase user satisfaction with navigation systems that make such determinations.

Detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are intended only as exemplary. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the aspects herein in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of possible implementations. Various embodiments are shown in but the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated structure or application.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein can be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to an example of a system is shown. The system includes a vehicle . As used herein vehicle means any form of motorized transport. In one or more implementations the vehicle can be an automobile. While arrangements will be described herein with respect to automobiles it will be understood that embodiments are not limited to automobiles. In some implementations the vehicle may be a motorcycle watercraft an aircraft or any other form of motorized transport.

The vehicle can be operated on a road. Road means any surface upon which a motorized vehicle can travel including roadways streets highways expressways dirt roads paved or unpaved roads etc. The road can be a private or a public road. The road can be a toll road. As used herein toll road means any road in which a fee is charged for use thereof. The term toll road includes turnpikes tollways and toll roads.

In some instances there can be one or more toll payment areas located along a toll road. As used herein toll payment area means any spot location travel lane zone area place booth toll houses plaza station gate and or structure in which a toll is collected or is designated to be collected for the use of at least a portion of a toll road.

In one or more arrangements a toll payment device can be operatively associated with the vehicle . Operatively associated with means located in on or near and includes direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact. Toll payment device means any device that can be detected by an automatic toll collection system so that a toll can be charged debited billed and or collected from an account associated with the toll payment device. In one or more arrangements the toll payment device can be a transmitter a responder or a transponder. In one or more arrangements the toll payment device can be a barcode or other machine readable identifier. The toll payment device can be located within the vehicle or on the exterior of the vehicle . The toll payment device can be permanently installed in the vehicle or the toll payment device can be temporarily installed in the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the toll payment device can be a portable unit that can be readily used in connection with a plurality of vehicles and or selectively used in one vehicle.

In some instances a toll collection system can be configured so that the vehicle can automatically pay tolls without a toll payment device . For instance some automatic toll collection systems use automatic number plate recognition. In such systems cameras and or optical character recognition is used to read the license plates on vehicles. In some instances automatic number plate recognition can be used in combination with the toll payment device .

Various automatic toll collection systems are used throughout the world. In the United States some examples of automatic toll collection system include Freedom Pass Alabama E ZPass network Delaware Illinois Indiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts New Hampshire New Jersey New York North Carolina Ohio Pennsylvania Rhode Island Virginia West Virginia I Pass Illinois NC Quick Pass North Carolina SunPass E PASS LeeWay O PASS C Pass Florida TxTAG TollTag EZ TAG Texas Peach Pass Georgia EXpressToll Colorado Fastrak California Good To Go Washington state K Tag Kansas MnPass Minnesota Palmetto Pass South Carolina Pikepass Oklahoma and GeauxPass Louisiana .

In some instances a toll road can include one or more automatic toll payment areas. An automatic toll payment area means any spot location travel lane zone area place booth toll houses plaza station gate and or structure which is designated for only automatic toll collection for the use of at least a portion of a toll road. In automatic toll payment areas a vehicle does not have to stop to pay a toll. Some toll payment areas are exclusively automatic toll payment areas. To properly use such toll payment areas a vehicle must be equipped for automatic toll payment. Some toll payment areas support both automatic and manual payment of tolls. For example there can be a mix of automatic toll payment areas and non automatic toll payment areas. As another example one or more toll payment areas can support both manual and automatic toll payment. In one or more arrangements one or more travel lanes can include an automatic toll payment area and one or more other travel lanes can include toll payment areas in which the toll can be paid automatically or manually. Manual toll payment means that a vehicle must stop to pay the toll.

One type of an automatic toll payment area is referred to as open road tolling. Open road tolling is a system in which tolls are collected without the use of an actual toll booth. In open road tolling a vehicle can drive through a toll payment area at posted speeds without having to stop slow down or significantly slow down to pay the toll.

The system can include a navigation system . Navigation system means one or more components mechanisms devices elements components systems modules applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to determine a current geographic location of a vehicle or the system determine one or more travel routes between an origin and a destination determine a distance for a determined or selected travel route and or determine an estimated time of arrival for a determined or selected travel route. As used herein estimated time of arrival is a measure prediction estimation and or determination of when arrival at a destination is expected. The estimated time of arrival can be expressed in any suitable manner. For example the estimated time of arrival can be expressed as the total amount of time to reach a destination from an origin or a current location. Alternatively or in addition the estimated time of arrival can be expressed as a time at which a destination will be reached e.g. the current time plus the predicted total amount of time to reach a destination from an origin or a current location .

Some of the possible elements of the navigation system are shown in and will now be described. It will be understood that it is not necessary for the navigation system to have all of the elements shown in or described herein. The navigation system can have any combination of the various elements shown in . Further the navigation system can have additional elements to those shown in . In some arrangements the navigation system may not include one or more of the elements shown in . In some arrangements one or more elements of the navigation system can be a part of another system of the vehicle . Further the elements shown may be physically separated by large distances.

The navigation system is shown as being operatively associated with e.g. located within and or on the vehicle in it will be understood that one or more of these elements can be located external to and or remote from the vehicle . In one or more arrangements one or more of the elements of the navigation system can be provided together as a navigation unit that can be used in connection with the vehicle . In one or more arrangements such a navigation unit can be installed in the vehicle . In one or more arrangements such a navigation unit can be configured to be portable so that it can be selectively placed in and removed from the vehicle . In such case the navigation unit can be selectively used in a plurality of vehicles as a handheld device and or in one or more non vehicular applications.

The navigation system can include one or more processors . Processor means any component or group of components that are configured to execute processes including any of the processes described herein or any form of instructions to carry out such processes or cause such processes to be performed. The processor may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or one or more special purpose processors. Examples of suitable processors include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Further examples of suitable processors include but are not limited to a central processing unit CPU an array processor a vector processor a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic array PLA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic circuitry and a controller. The processor can include at least one hardware circuit e.g. an integrated circuit configured to carry out instructions contained in program code. In arrangements in which there is a plurality of processors such processors can work independently from each other or one or more processors can work in combination with each other.

The navigation system can include one or more data stores for storing one or more types of data. The data store can include volatile and or non volatile memory. Examples of suitable data stores include RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The data store can be a component of the processor or the data store can be operatively connected to the processor for use thereby. The term operatively connected as used throughout this description can include direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact.

The navigation system can include an input system . An input system is defined as a component system device element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be entered into a machine. The input system can receive an input from a user e.g. a person a vehicle occupant etc. . Any suitable input system can be used including for example a keypad display touch screen multi touch screen button joystick mouse trackball microphone and or combinations thereof.

The navigation system can include an output system . An output system is defined as a component system device element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be presented to a user e.g. a person a vehicle occupant etc. . The output system can include one or more visual outputs including for example one or more displays. Alternatively or in addition the output system may include one or more audial outputs including for example a microphone earphone and or speaker.

One or more components systems devices elements and or arrangements may serve as both a component of the input system and of the output system . For example a display may serve as both a component of the input system and as a component of the output system . Further one or more components systems devices elements and or arrangements of the navigation system may also serve as a component system device element and or arrangement of the vehicle . For instance a display of the navigation system can also be part of a radio system or a monitoring system of the vehicle .

The navigation system can include one or more transceivers . A transceiver is defined as a component or a group of components that transmit signals receive signals or transmit and receive signals whether wirelessly or through a hard wired connection. The transceiver can be operatively connected to the processor and or the data store . Any suitable transceiver can be used to access a network access point node or other electrical device for the transmission and receipt of data. The transceiver may be a wireless transceiver using any one of a number of wireless technologies. Examples of suitable transceivers include a cellular transceiver broadband Internet transceiver local area network LAN transceiver wide area network WAN transceiver wireless local area network WLAN transceiver personal area network PAN transceiver body area network BAN transceiver WiFi transceiver WiMax transceiver Bluetooth transceiver 3G transceiver 4G transceiver ZigBee transceiver WirelessHART transceiver MiWi transceiver IEEE 802.11 transceiver IEEE 802.15.4 transceiver or a Near Field Communication NFC transceiver just to name a few possibilities. The transceiver can include any wireless technology developed in the future. Again the transceiver can include one or more transceivers and can be any suitable combination of transceivers including any combination of the transceivers noted above. However it will be understood that arranged described herein are not limited to wireless transceivers. Indeed the transceiver can be configured for wired network connections.

The navigation system can include one or more navigation modules . The navigation module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement various processes described herein. For instance the navigation module can be configured to determine a current geographic location of the vehicle and or the navigation system determine one or more travel routes between an origin and a destination determine one or more revised travel routes based on a changed condition e.g. route location traffic etc. determine a distance for a determined or selected travel route and or determine an estimated time of arrival for a determined or selected travel route.

The navigation module can be a component of and or executed on the processor or the navigation module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected. The navigation module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

In one or more arrangements the navigation module can include have access to and or can execute one or more mapping applications or map data to determine a travel route between an origin and a destination. The origin or destination can be provided in any suitable manner. For instance a driver or passenger of the vehicle or other user of the navigation system may input an origin and or a destination. The navigation module can determine one or more suitable travel routes between the origin and the destination. A travel route may be selected based on one or more parameters e.g. shortest travel distance shortest amount of travel time etc. . In some arrangements the navigation module can be configured to update the travel route dynamically. Such updating can be performed while traveling along the travel route and or as the location of the navigation system and or the vehicle changes. Such updating can be performed responsive to a change in conditions or information e.g. traffic accidents road closures etc. .

The navigation system can include a positioning system which can include for example a global positioning system a local positioning system or a geolocation system. The navigation module can be implemented with any one of a number of satellite positioning systems such as the United States Global Positioning System GPS the Russian Glonass system the European Galileo system the Chinese Beidou system or any system that uses satellites from a combination of satellite systems or any satellite system developed in the future including the planned Chinese COMPASS system and the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. Further the positioning system can use Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or a Geographic information system GIS and location services.

The positioning system may include a transceiver e.g. transceiver and or other transceiver configured to estimate a position of the vehicle with respect to the Earth. For example positioning system can include a GPS transceiver to determine the vehicle s latitude longitude and or altitude. The positioning system can use other systems e.g. laser based localization systems inertial aided GPS and or camera based localization to determine the location of the vehicle and or the navigation system .

Alternatively or in addition the positioning system can be based on access point geolocation services such as using the W3C Geolocation Application Programming Interface API . With such a system the location of the vehicle and or the navigation system can be determined through the consulting of location information servers including for example Internet protocol IP address Wi Fi and Bluetooth Media Access Control MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location or device GPS and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA cell IDs. Thus it will be understood that the specific manner in which the geographic position of the vehicle and or the navigation system is determined will depend on the manner of operation of the particular location tracking system used.

The navigation system can be configured to obtain traffic condition information or data from any suitable source of such information or data. For instance the navigation system and or one or more components of navigation system can be communicatively linked to one or more traffic data sources through one or more communication networks . As used herein the term communicatively linked can include direct or indirect connections through a communication channel or pathway or another component or system. A communication network means one or more components designed to transmit and or receive information from one source to another.

The one or more communication networks can be implemented as or include without limitation a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a wireless network a mobile network a Virtual Private Network VPN the Internet and or one or more intranets. The communication network further can be implemented as or include one or more wireless networks whether short or long range. For example in terms of short range wireless networks the communication network can include a local wireless network built using a Bluetooth or one of the IEEE 802 wireless communication protocols e.g. 802.11a b g i 802.15 802.16 802.20 Wi Fi Protected Access WPA or WPA2. In terms of long range wireless networks the communication network can include a mobile cellular and or satellite based wireless network and support voice video text and or any combination thereof. Examples of long range wireless networks can include GSM TDMA CDMA WCDMA networks or the like. The communication network can include wired communication links and or wireless communication links. The communication network can include any combination of the above networks and or other types of networks. The communication network can include one or more routers switches access points wireless access points and or the like.

The traffic data source can be any source of traffic related information or data. The traffic data source can be for example a traffic server a traffic condition database a traffic news source an online traffic database e.g. a traffic related website a publication a system or a source as may be available from one or more public agencies e.g. a national state or local department of transportation one or more public groups e.g. a news reporting agencies and or one or more private groups. The navigation system can be configured to determine or obtain traffic related information or data in real time. As used herein the term real time means a level of processing responsiveness that a user or system senses as sufficiently immediate for a particular process or determination to be made or that enables the processor to keep up with some external process.

Examples of traffic related information or data that can be obtained by the navigation system can include traffic alerts road closures accidents congestion construction current traffic speed posted speed limit and or other traffic related events. Additional examples of traffic related information or data include the identification of toll roads the location of toll payment areas along a toll road the type of each automatic toll payment area e.g. open road tolling a toll payment booth designated automatic toll payment lanes non automatic toll payment lanes etc. current traffic delays at automatic toll payment areas and or current wait times at automatic toll payment areas. In one or more arrangements the navigation system can obtain historical traffic related information or data e.g. historical traffic delay data or information for a given location.

As noted above the navigation module can be configured to determine an estimated time of arrival at a destination. The estimated time of arrival can be determined in any suitable manner now known or later developed. The estimated time of arrival is determined based on a plurality of factors. Examples of such factors can include the travel route the total distance speed limits predicted vehicle speed and or average vehicle speed. As a non limiting example the estimated time of arrival can be determined at least in part by dividing the total distance between the origin and the destination by the average vehicle speed as determined by the posted speed limits over the total distance.

Further examples of factors include current traffic conditions e.g. current traffic levels accidents current road speeds and or backups or actual speed of the vehicle along the travel route. For instance if a vehicle actually stops at a toll payment area such stopping can be considered when determining or updating the estimated time of arrival.

In one or more arrangements the estimated time of arrival can be updated continuously periodically or at any suitable interval based on one or more factors. Non limiting examples of such factors include current traffic conditions changes in traffic conditions and or actual speed of the vehicle along the current travel route.

The determination of the estimated time of arrival at a destination can also be based on toll payment delays at toll payments areas located on a toll road. Toll payment delay means the additional time that is required to pay a toll at a toll payment area located on a toll road. According to arrangements herein the toll payment delays can be an amount of time that is added to the estimated time of arrival. Thus in the above example of determining the estimated time of arrival the estimated time of arrival can be increased by the toll payment delay determined for each toll payment area located along the travel route. The toll payment delay can be included in the determination of the estimated time of arrival in any suitable manner.

The toll payment delay can be determined in any suitable manner. For instance the toll payment delay can be a predetermined amount of time for each toll payment area. In one or more arrangements the predetermined amount of time for each toll payment area can be the same for all toll payment areas along a toll road. In one or more arrangements the predetermined amount of time associated with at least one toll payment area can be different than the predetermined amount of time associated with the other toll payment areas along the toll road.

In one or more arrangements the toll payment delay can be determined and or updated based on current traffic condition information or data. For instance current traffic condition data or information can be obtained from any suitable source e.g. traffic data source s . As an example a traffic data source may indicate that there is an average of a two minute wait at a toll payment area on a toll road. In such case the toll payment delay can be determined to be about two minutes or more. The toll payment delay can vary over time. Alternatively or in addition to average wait times the traffic data source may also indicate minimum and or maximum wait times at a toll payment area. In some instances when a toll payment area includes a plurality of travel lanes the source of current traffic condition data may provide the wait time separately for each of the plurality of travel lanes.

Some toll roads are configured for automatic toll payment. In such cases a toll payment area can be configured to automatically collect an appropriate toll. A separate toll payment area may be designated for automatic toll payment. In such cases a vehicle can automatically pay the toll typically without having to stop. Moreover the vehicle may not have to reduce its speed or it may not have to substantially reduce its speed. Accordingly the toll payment delay associated with one or more toll payment areas located along a travel route can be adjusted if the navigation system receives an indication of automatic payment of tolls. In this respect adjusted means that the toll payment delay for a toll payment area is reduced ignored or otherwise filtered and thus effectively ignored. Indication of automatic payment of tolls means any input or signal that instructs advises explains commands or otherwise indicates that tolls will automatically be paid at automatic toll payment areas located along a toll road. If a toll payment delay associated with one or more toll payment areas located along a travel route is adjusted the adjusted toll payment delay can be used in the determination of an estimated time of arrival.

The toll payment delay can be adjusted in any suitable manner. For instance the toll payment delay can be reduced to a predetermined amount of time. In one or more arrangements the predetermined amount of time can be 0 seconds 5 seconds or less 10 seconds or less 15 seconds or less 20 seconds or less 25 seconds or less or 30 seconds or less just to name a few possibilities.

In one or more arrangements the toll payment delay can be reduced by a predetermined percentage. For instance in one or more arrangements the predetermined percentage can be at least about 75 percent at least about 80 percent at least about 85 percent at least about 90 percent at least about 95 percent or 100 percent just to name a few possibilities. In one or more arrangements the toll payment delay can be reduced by a predetermined reduction amount. For instance the predetermined reduction amount can be 5 seconds 10 seconds 15 seconds 20 seconds 25 seconds 30 second 35 seconds 40 seconds 45 seconds 50 seconds 55 seconds or 60 seconds.

In certain circumstances the navigation system can be configured to ignore the received indication of automatic payment of tolls. For instance if traffic related data indicates that there is an actual traffic delay at an automatic toll payment area then the estimated time of arrival can be determined using the actual traffic delay or the non adjusted toll payment delay even if an indication of automatic payment of tolls has been received. Thus if there is actually a delay at a designated automatic toll payment area of a toll road the toll payment delay will not be adjusted.

In one or more arrangements the navigation system can include a sensor system . Sensor means any device component and or system that can detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense something. In arrangements in which the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors the sensors can work independently from each other or one or more of the sensors can work in combination with each other. The sensor system and or the one or more sensors can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the navigation module and or other element of the navigation system .

The sensor system can include any suitable type of sensor. For example in one or more arrangements the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess and or sense whether a toll payment device is operatively associated with the vehicle .

Now that the various potential systems devices elements and or components have been described various methods for determining an estimated time of arrival will now be described. Referring now to one example of a method of determining an estimated time of arrival when a travel route includes one or more toll roads is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

At block a travel route between an origin and a destination can be determined. The origin and destination can be input into the navigation system by for example a vehicle occupant. In one or more arrangements the origin and or the destination can be automatically input. For instance the origin may be automatically input based of a detected current location of the navigation system and or vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the origin and or the destination can be obtained from any suitable source. For example the one or more data stores can store one or more contacts addresses default locations as set by a user or some other entity previous origins and or destinations frequent origins and or destinations etc. The travel route can also include any user travel preferences such as preferred or non preferred roads preferred or non preferred types of roads or preferred route parameters e.g. shortest amount of time shortest distance etc. .

The travel route can be determined in any suitable manner such as by using any suitable mapping application. In one or more arrangements the travel route can be determined by the processor and or the navigation module . In some instances a plurality of travel routes can be determined. In such instances a user may select the desired travel route or a travel route may be automatically selected based on a predetermined criteria. In some instances the determined travel route can include one or more toll roads. If the determined travel route does not include one or more toll roads the method can end. However if the determined travel route includes one or more toll roads the method can continue to block .

At block it can be determined whether one or more toll payment areas are located along the toll road. Such information may be obtained from any suitable source. For instance such information may be included in the data store the navigation module or in a source external to the vehicle e.g. traffic data source s . The method can continue to block .

At block a toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas can be determined. For example the toll payment delay can be a predetermined amount which can be obtained from any suitable source. For instance such information may be included in the data store the navigation module or in a source external to the vehicle e.g. traffic data source s . In one or more arrangements the traffic delay can be determined based on current traffic conditions. For instance such information can be obtained from any suitable source e.g. traffic data source s . In such case the traffic delay for each toll booth can vary over time. The method can continue to block .

At block an indication of automatic payment of tolls can be received. The indication of automatic payment of tolls can be received in any suitable manner. In one or more arrangements the indication of automatic payment of tolls can be input by a user. As an example a user can input the indication of automatic payment of tolls using the input system of the navigation system . As an example the indication of automatic payment of tolls can be input by a touch screen or a microphone. In one or more arrangements the indication of automatic payment of tolls can be determined automatically. For instance the sensor system can detect the presence of the automatic toll payment device within a predetermined distance of the sensor system . An indication of automatic payment of tolls can be considered as being received if the automatic toll payment device is detected.

Responsive to receiving the indication of automatic toll payment the toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas can be adjusted. The adjustment of the toll payment delay can occur in any suitable manner including in any of the ways described herein. It should be noted that in one or more arrangements if an indication of automatic toll payment is not received the toll payment delay may not be adjusted. The method can continue to block .

At block an estimated time of arrival to the destination can be determined. The estimated time of arrival can be determined in any suitable manner. For instance the determination of the estimated time of arrival can include adding or otherwise using the adjusted toll payment delay for the one or more toll payment areas located along the determined travel route. The method can continue to block .

At block the determined estimated time of arrival can be presented to a user. The estimated time of arrival can be presented in any suitable manner. For instance the estimated time of arrival can be presented in a visual manner and or in an audible manner such as by being presented by one or more components of the output system .

A non limiting example of the determined an estimated time of arrival in accordance with systems and methods described herein will now be presented in relation to . According to arrangements herein an indication of automatic payment of tolls can be input in any suitable manner. For instance referring to a user can be presented with an options screen . For instance the options screen can be presented on a display . The display can be a part of the output system and or the input system of the navigation system . The options screen can be presented at any suitable time. For instance the options screen can be presented at every use of the navigation system for a travel route. As another example the options screen can be presented when a determined or selected travel route is determined to include one or more toll roads. As another example the options screen can be presented in response to receiving a user input to access the options screen .

A display is defined as a component or a group of components that present information data in visual form including for example video images graphics etc. In one or more arrangements the display can be located in a front interior portion of a vehicle . As an example the display can be included in a dashboard or instrument panel not shown of the vehicle .

The display can be any suitable type of display. The display can be any suitable type of display. For instance the display can be a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display or some other suitable display. In one or more arrangements the display can be a touch screen display a multi touch display or a remotely controlled display. A touch screen can allow a user to engage or interact with one or more displayed elements such as a graphical user interface GUI and or other applications running on any vehicle system including any of those described herein through contact with the display . For example a user may make selections and move a cursor by simply touching the display via a finger or stylus.

The options screen can present one or more options for user input with respect to the navigation system . In a toll automatic payment option is presented. While the toll automatic payment option is the only option shown in it will be understood that one or more other options may be available.

The options screen can be configured to provide an interface to allow a user to indicate whether tolls will be automatically paid. The user can provide such an indication in any suitable manner. For instance the display and or the input system can include one or more user interface elements. A user interface element is defined as a component or a group of components that enables a user to interact with a machine. In one or more arrangements the options screen can provide one or more graphical user interface elements. The term graphical user interface element is defined as an image or a portion of an image that presents information to a user or allows the user to interact with a device through a display.

The graphical user interface elements can have any suitable form. In one or more arrangements the graphical user interface elements can include one or more buttons such as an ON button and an OFF button . A user can select enable or disable the toll automatic payment option by engaging the appropriate one of the buttons such as with a finger pointer or a stylus. The user s selection can be implemented as a default setting for all future usage of the navigation system unless otherwise changed. Alternatively the user s selection can be implemented for a one time use and or for a temporary period of time. For instance the user s selection can be implemented for a single travel route. If a query for a new travel route is submitted the options screen or other prompt may be presented to the user again.

If the user selects the OFF button then for purposes of determining an estimated time of arrival the navigation system can be configured to treat the vehicle as if it is not equipped and or not enabled to automatically pay tolls at toll payments areas located along toll roads included in the travel route. Accordingly the estimated time of arrival can be determined using e.g. by adding the toll payment delay associated with each toll payment booth located along the travel route.

If the user selects the ON button then for purposes of determining an estimated time of arrival the navigation system can be configured to treat the vehicle as if it is equipped and or enabled to automatically pay tolls at toll payments areas located along any toll roads included in the travel route. Accordingly the estimated time of arrival can be determined using e.g. by adding the adjusted toll payment delay associated with each toll payment booth located along the travel route.

In one or more arrangements if the user selects to enables the toll automatic payment option a warning can be presented to the user. The warning can warn alert advise indicate or inform the user of one or more things associated with the user s selection of the toll automatic payment option . For instance the warning can indicate that the selection of toll automatic payment is used for determining an estimated time of arrival only. The warning can also indicate that the selection does not result in tolls being automatically paid. The warning can also advise the user to ensure that a toll payment device is located in the vehicle the toll payment device must be activated the toll payment device must be in working condition and or the account associated with the toll payment device must be in good standing.

In one or more arrangements the warning can be presented as a visual output. Visual output is any output that provides information in a manner that is perceptible to the human sense of sight. One example of a warning being presented as a visual output is shown in . In this example a warning can be presented on a warning screen on the display . The warning screen can be presented for a predetermined amount of time or it can be presented until an input is received to close or minimize the warning screen .

Alternatively or in addition the warning can be presented as an audial output. Audial output is any output that provides information in a manner that is perceptible to the human sense of hearing. The audial output can be presented by one or more components of the output system such as by being emitted over one or more speakers. Speaker means one or more elements one or more devices one or more components one or more systems and or any combination thereof that produce sound in response to an audio signal input. Examples of speakers include for example electroacoustic transducers sound chips and sound cards. Each speaker can have one or more audio output channels not shown operatively connected thereto. Audio output channel means any suitable device component or structure for carrying audio signals.

The determined estimated time of arrival can be presented in any suitable manner. For instance the estimated time of arrival can be presented as a visual output. As an example as is shown in the estimated time of arrival can be presented on the display . In one or more arrangements the estimated time of arrival can be expressed as an amount of time to arrive at the destination or as the time at which the vehicle will arrive .

In one or more arrangements the estimated time of arrival can be presented on a separate screen. In one or more arrangements the estimated time of arrival can be presented with additional information or data. One example of a screen in which the estimated time of arrival can be presented with additional information or data is shown in . Any suitable information can be presented in addition to the estimated time of arrival. For instance a map of at least a portion of a selected or determined travel route can be presented. The map can present graphical photographic video and or map information or data which can be obtained from any suitable source including for example from the data store the navigation module and other source to which one or more elements of the navigation system and or the vehicle are operatively connected.

An origin and a destination can be indicated on the map . In one or more arrangements the screen can enable a user to selectively zoom in and out on the map . The current location of the vehicle and or the navigation system can be indicated on the map . The information presented on the travel route screen including the estimated time of arrival can be updated in real time.

Further examples of additional information that can be presented on the screen can include the total distance of the travel route and or the current time . Further the screen can present the travel directions as a list view. In one or more arrangements the screen can present an options button . The options button is selected the options screen can be presented on the display .

Alternatively or in addition to presenting the estimated time of arrival in a visual manner the estimated time of arrival can be presented as an audial output. The audial output can inform a vehicle occupant or other user of the navigation unit of the estimated time of arrival at a destination. The audial output can be presented by one or more components of the output system such as by being emitted over one or more speakers.

It will be appreciated that arrangements described herein can provide numerous benefits including one or more of the benefits mentioned herein. For example arrangements described herein can improve the accuracy of the estimated time of arrival determined by a navigation system and or vehicle. Arrangements described herein can increase user satisfaction when using a navigation system.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The systems components and or processes described above can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with computer usable program code that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The systems components and or processes also can be embedded in a computer readable storage such as a computer program product or other data programs storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform methods and processes described herein. These elements also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

Furthermore arrangements described herein may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied e.g. stored thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium means a non transitory storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present arrangements may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The phrase at least one of . . . and . . . as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As an example the phrase at least one of A B and C includes A only B only C only or any combination thereof e.g. AB AC BC or ABC .

Aspects herein can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

