---

title: Concurrently uploading multimedia objects and associating metadata with the multimedia objects
abstract: In one embodiment, a first computing device receives a first user input selecting a set of multimedia objects stored on the first computing device, and initiates upload of the set of multimedia objects to a second computing device. While the upload is in progress, a second user input is concurrently received selecting a subset of the set of multimedia objects, and a third user input is concurrently received comprising metadata, and the metadata is associated with one or more multimedia objects from the subset of multimedia objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661076&OS=09661076&RS=09661076
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09661076
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151020
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 168 076 filed 24 Jun. 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to transmitting multimedia objects and metadata associated with the multimedia objects between computing devices such as clients and servers.

Cloud storage is a model of networked online storage where data are stored on multiple virtual servers generally hosted by third parties. There are several advantages with cloud storage. For example by storing data on remote servers instead of on one s own user devices i.e. clients the storage space on the user devices may be freed up for other uses. At the same time the data may be professionally managed by the third parties e.g. organize backup secure etc. and easily shared with other people.

Online storage has become popular in recent years as the amount of digital data grows rapidly. In one instance many social networking websites provide various forms of online storage to their users in order to support and encourage information sharing among the users. For example FLICKR www.flickr.com is a web based service that enables its users to upload and share digital images and YOUTUBE www.youtube.com is another web based service that enables its users to upload and share digital videos and audios.

This disclosure generally relates to transmitting multimedia objects and metadata associated with the multimedia objects between computing devices such as clients and servers. More specifically in particular embodiments while a set of multimedia objects e.g. digital photographs stored on a first device e.g. a client is being uploaded to a second device e.g. a server metadata are associated with at least some of the multimedia objects being uploaded. Subsequently the metadata may also be uploaded to the second device.

In particular embodiments accessing a set of multimedia objects stored on a first computing device initiating upload of the set of multimedia objects to a second computing device and while the set of multimedia objects is being uploaded to the second computing device receiving metadata entered by a user of the first computing device and associating metadata with each of one or more multimedia objects from the set of multimedia objects.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

This disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. However this disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure this disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

With online storage a user may upload digital images or other multimedia objects such as digital photographs to a server managed by a third party for storage or for sharing with other users. A user may select a set of images stored on a user device e.g. a client and instruct the user device to establish a network connection with another device e.g. a server and upload the set of images to the other device. Often there may be metadata e.g. tags associated with at least some of the images. For example the metadata associated with a photograph may include without limitation the photograph s title or description camera settings e.g. exposure value shutter speed aperture etc. names of the people in the photograph the date or time when the photograph is taken the event during which the photograph is taken the location e.g. latitude and longitude city attraction etc. where the photograph is taken or the album to which the photograph belong.

Given a set of one or more images sometimes it may take some time to transmit the image data from a user device to a server especially when the amount of data is relatively large or the bandwidth of the network connection is relatively low. With some types of user devices e.g. mobile devices such as mobile telephones while the image data are being transmitted from the user device to the server there may not be many other operations the user may perform with the user device because the resources of the user device may be substantially consumed by the data transmission e.g. the bandwidth of the network connection is substantially used up for transmitting the image data or because the user device does not support concurrent executions of multiple applications e.g. devices running Apple iOS applications .

In particular embodiments while waiting for a set of images e.g. photographs being uploaded from a user device to a server metadata are associated with at least some of the images being uploaded. Subsequently e.g. after the upload of the image data has been completed the metadata may also be uploaded to the server. illustrates an example method for concurrently uploading images and associating metadata with at least some of the images being uploaded. The client side processes described herein may be implemented as a JavaScript object embedded in a web page from which a user may opt to select one or more digital media files for upload.

In particular embodiments there may be digital images e.g. photographs stored on a first device e.g. a user device associated with a user. The user may identify a set of images from the images stored on the first device for uploading to a second device e.g. a server as illustrated in STEP . Note that there may be any number of images in the set that are uploaded at one time.

When the user is done selecting the images for upload the first device may establish a network connection e.g. a TCP FTP or any other suitable connection with the second device as illustrated in STEP and begin uploading the image data to the second device over the network connection as illustrated in STEP .

In particular embodiments while the image data are being uploaded from the first device to the second device the first device may associate metadata with at least some of the images being uploaded as illustrated in STEP . As one example the user may select some images in the set and provide metadata to each selected image via a user interface component. In some implementations the user may scroll or swipe through a set of the images in the upload queue and select one for tagging with metadata. The user provided metadata are then associated with the corresponding images. As another example the first device may automatically determine metadata for some of the images in the set based on information stored on the first device and associate the determined metadata with the corresponding images. For example if the first device includes a digital camera e.g. a mobile telephone with a built in camera the first device may be used to take digital photographs. The camera settings date time or location information e.g. obtained from a GPS sensor of the first device may be associated with a photograph as its metadata. In addition the first device may automatically associate appropriate user information with a photograph as its metadata. Automatically tagging users to an image is described in more detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 890 283 entitled Auto Tagging in Geo Social Networking System filed on 24 Sep. 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes. In one implementation the user may be asked during the upload process to confirm the tags that have been automatically associated by the server.

After upload of the images or other digital media files the first device may upload the metadata associated with the images to the second device as illustrated in STEP . In particular embodiments the first device may wait until all the image data corresponding to the set of images have been completely uploaded to the second device and then upload the metadata associated with the images. Alternatively in particular embodiments the first device may alternate between uploading the image data and the metadata. In this case the first device may concurrently upload a first image and associate metadata with the first image upload the metadata of the first image then concurrently upload a second image and associate metadata with the second image upload the metadata of the second image and so on. In one implementation the metadata is associated with a file name or other handler associated with a corresponding image file.

Although the steps illustrated in are described in reference to images the same concept may be applied to transmitting any type of data. For example a set of files e.g. text files audio files video files as well as image files may be uploaded from a first device to a second device. While uploading the file data metadata may be associated with at least some of the files being uploaded. Subsequently e.g. when the file data have been completely uploaded the metadata associated with the files may also be uploaded to the second device.

In particular embodiments in screen there may be a upload queue that displays the user selected set of images to be uploaded and a progress bar that displays the current status of the upload process. For example one specific image that is currently being uploaded may be visually distinguished from other images in upload queue . The user may navigate to and select any image from upload queue and provide metadata for that image via an input component . In particular embodiments the metadata may be in free form text. In other implementations the metadata may be tags or pointers to other files or records to other information stored on the client device such as pointers to address book contacts calendar event entries and the like. In one implementation the tagging interface may provide a type ahead field that suggest entries from a local database on the client device e.g. contacts calendar etc. based on the text string currently entered by the user.

User interface enables the user to provide metadata for images without exiting the upload application and while images are being uploaded.

In particular embodiments the user may be a member of a social networking website and may from time to time upload photographs to his account at the social networking website in order to share them with other members of the website. A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike or relationships of beliefs knowledge or prestige. In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social networking websites. Such social networking websites enable their members who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. For example the social networking website operated by Facebook Inc. at www.facebook.com enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails instant messages or blog postings organize social events share photos receive news of their friends or interesting events play games etc. Upload server may be associated with the social networking website.

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA C or C . In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

