---

title: Method and system for routing messages and connecting users associated with live-connected content
abstract: A first request is received from a first user device, including a content item identifier identifying a first content item. In response, a list of media content documents is identified from a content database based on the content item ID. Document identifiers of the media content document are transmitted to a second server. A list of agent identifiers is received from the second server identifying agents who are currently available to establish a live communication session with the first user. A subset of the media content documents is determined based on the availability information of the agents and transmitted to the first user device. Each of the subset is presented with at least one agent identifier identifying an available agent, at least one geographic location of the available agent, and a live connect button to allow the first user to reach the corresponding available agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357073&OS=09357073&RS=09357073
owner: TELETECH HOLDINGS, INC.
number: 09357073
owner_city: Eaglewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150414
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 521 783 filed Oct. 23 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 895 963 filed Oct. 25 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 014 434 filed Jun. 19 2014. The disclosure of the above provisional applications is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to content distribution. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to routing messages of the live connected content.

In online advertising internet users are presented with advertisements as they browse the internet using a web browser. Online advertising is an efficient way for advertisers to convey advertising information to potential purchasers of goods and services. It is also an efficient tool for organizations such as non profits and political organizations to increase their awareness in a target group of people. Ad advertisement serving describes the technology and service that places advertisements on web sites. Ad serving technology companies provide software and or services to web sites and advertisers to serve ads count them choose the ads that will make the website the most money or the advertiser the best return and monitor progress of different advertising campaigns. Ad servers come in two flavors local ad servers and third party or remote ad servers. Local ad servers are typically run by a single publisher and serve ads to that publisher s domains allowing fine grained creative formatting and content control by that publisher. Remote ad servers can serve ads across domains owned by multiple publishers. They deliver the ads from one central source so that advertisers and publishers can track the distribution of their online advertisements and have one location for controlling the rotation and distribution of their advertisements across the Web.

Most of the conventional Ads are static in which certain information will be displayed and in some cases includes contact information of the service provider who is advertising. However a viewer of this ad is not able to know whether the services described in an Ad can be provided in a time relevant way i.e. within the hour within the day . Today for example if one looks for a local orthodontist surgeon one would type local orthodontist surgeon in for a search field of a browser. The search engine e.g. Yahoo would come back with a list of orthodontist businesses that prescribe to this ads type. Depending upon the browser a phone number of the business may or may not be clickable to establish the phone contact. If a user is using a Chrome browser and if he she has installed the Google Voice plugin of the case then one can click the hyperlink the Google Voice plugin will verify the phone number that the user would like to call then initiate the dial for the user. The user will then be connected to the end point of that phone number in this case it would likely be the orthodontist office receptionist assuming that person is available. If the user is using a Safari browser the user will also be presented with a phone number which the user can text to its iPhone using iMessage . Once the user has received the text you can dial the orthodontist office from the iPhone and conduct a conversation assuming there is someone who is able to answer the phone on the orthodontist s end. Although sometimes a map is also presented however the map is only related to static information such as an address associated with the Ad. It does not provide anything regarding the location of the service provider.

Such a limitation is sometimes unacceptable and problematic to some Ad visitors and or providers. A visitor would not know whether there is actually a person or support person available and nearby. Similarly an Ad will run regardless whether there is actually a person or support person available. The lack of a live time relevant connection with an Ad provider may discourage a visitor from interacting with an Ad to inquire further information.

Various embodiments and aspects of the inventions will be described with reference to details discussed below and the accompanying drawings will illustrate the various embodiments. The following description and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in conjunction with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

According to some embodiments a live connect system is utilized to coordinate with content providers and content distribution systems to provide and distribute live content also simply referred to as live connect content to end users as visitors. With the live connect system an end user e.g. visitor who accesses live content can establish a live communication session with another user e.g. support agent specialist that is associated with the live content at the point in time for example for the purpose of discussing further detailed information concerning the content presented. The live content presented to the visitor includes information indicating that there is a support agent who is available at the point in time to have a live conversation with the visitor. The live content also includes information indicating a geographic location of that support agent with respect to the geographic location of the visitor e.g. within a predetermined geographic proximity . As a result the end user does not have to go through tedious manual operations in order to reach out someone who is nearby and familiar with the content in question or someone who he or she can talk to immediately concerning the content at the point in time.

According to one embodiment when a user accesses content presented by a content server e.g. Web server such as a Yahoo or Google Web server also referred to as a content presentation server the content server may communicate with a live content also referred to as live sponsored content server e.g. Ad network to request a list of live content e.g. live connect Ads that is associated with the information or content currently accessed by the user e.g. search term keyword or search result . In response the live content server identifies for example from its content database a list of live content associated with the information the user is currently interested in e.g. search information user information . For each of the live content the live content server communicates with a live connect server to determine whether there is another user or at least one specialist also referred to as subject matter expert or SME support agent or simply agent currently available who is familiar with the subject matter in question and who can communicate with the user at the point in time. For each of the inquired live content the live connect server identifies zero or more specialists that are currently available for example based on the geographic locations presence information and status of the specialists which may be stored and periodically updated in a user or specialist database associated with the live connect server.

The live connect server returns information indicating which of the live content that has at least one live support person or agent e.g. specialist available. In one embodiment the live connect server returns identifying information of the live support persons that are associated with the live content being inquired e.g. live Ads . For each of the associated support persons for example prior to presenting the live content the live connect server further determines whether the respective support agent is currently available and if the support agent is currently available the respective geographic location e.g. longitude and latitude data with respect to the geographic location of the visitor. For each of the live content that has at least one support agent available according to one embodiment the live content may be presented to the user by the live content server and or the content presentation server. In addition each live content may be presented with a live connect button or control to enable the user to contact another user that is associated with the live content. In one embodiment an available specialist may also be someone located within a predetermined geographic proximity with respect to a geographic location associated with the visitor. For example an available agent can contact the visitor discussing the live content in real time or within a very short period of time and potentially go to and arrive at a premises or property e.g. house or building of the visitor within a reasonable period of time for example to provide services related to the live content which may also be desired or expected by the visitor.

Alternatively according to another embodiment each live content may be presented with identifying information of one or more support agents or specialists who can communicate with the visitor immediately or within a short period of time for discussing the corresponding live content. In one embodiment the identifying information includes a name and or a picture of the specialist and a geographical location of the specialist with respect to the user. One or more of the available specialists are presented to the user with a live connect button or control. The displayed live content may also indicate that the user can contact a specialist or agent associated with the live content in real time and guaranteed to reach a live person within a short period of time. The user can activate or click a live connect button or control to contact the corresponding specialist at the point in time for example based on the geographic location of the specialist or based on reputation of the company the specialist is associated with. If particular live content does not have at least one specialist that is currently available that particular live content may not be presented to the user or the content is presented as static content without indicating that the user can contact an agent in real time. This ensures availability of both parties the user who would initiate a connection and the specialist who must be available to accept respond to communication and is dependent upon the specific configuration or rules of the content server. Alternatively that live content may be presented as regular static content for example without presenting the live connect button or control when there is no specialist currently available. In such a situation if subsequently there is a specialist who becomes available the live connect button or control is then presented to the user again dependent upon the specific implementation or configuration of the content presentation server and or content distribution server.

When the visitor activates or clicks on a live connect button of a particular live content a connection request is transmitted to the live connect server. The request may include contact identifying information of the visitor e.g. name address phone number email etc. and other user information e.g. search information activities performed by the visitor and or a geographic location of the visitor . In response the live connect server routes the visitor s information to a specialist who is associated with the live content and is also available. In one embodiment a specialist may be selected for example based on its availability status and or its geographic location by the live connect server when the live content server requests for availability information. As a result the identifying information of the selected specialist may have been embedded as part of executable code associated with the live connect button. Thus when the visitor activates the live connect button the underlying code is executed and a data message is transmitted to the live connect server which in turn routes the information to the selected specialist. That is a specialist has to be selected before the live content is displayed. That matters in two ways 1 in order to display a map of specialists the specific and unique geographic information for each specialist must be ascertained 2 chat or call information must be determined and embedded in part of the live content code. In this situation the live connect server can automatically routes the request to the selected specialist without user intervention. The selected specialist can then respond to the connection request at the point in time. Alternatively according to another embodiment the visitor can initiate a contact request by activating the live connect button as a general live connect button to connect with the live content owner to communicate with a dispatcher or manager associated with that particular live content which in turn selects and routes the contact request to a specialist who is available. In this situation a dedicated person such as an administrator a manager or a dispatch person has to be available to receive the request and determine to which of the available specialists the request should be routed. If a specialist becomes unavailable or is unwilling to accept the request the request may be rerouted to the dedicated person such as a dispatcher manager or a dedicated overflow specialist.

In one embodiment live content server as a content distribution server provides live content services such as for example Ad services for content presentation servers to leverage Ad opportunities via content or services offered to client devices . When content server presents content to users in addition to presenting regular static content e.g. search result content server communicates with live content server to inquire any live content of a specific type e.g. content related to those the users are currently interested in . Live content server in turn identifies a list of live content which may be configured previously for participating in particular live content distribution e.g. Ad campaign . For each of the identified live content live content server e.g. Ad server communicates with live connect server to determine one or more specialists that have been registered with live connect server and are currently available to contact the users who may be interested in the live content. In response live connect server identifies zero or more of the specialists that are available and their respective geographic locations. The information of the available specialists is then transmitted back to live content server and the live content having at least one available specialist may then be presented to the users. The users can then access the live content and contact with the available specialists for further discussion about the live content Ad.

According to one embodiment in the field of advertising the live content may represent Ads from which a visitor can contact a specialist associated with the Ad. Live content server may represent Ad infrastructure Ad networks Ad servers and or Ad exchanges for serving advertisements via content servers to client devices . Live connect server may offer live connect Ads via Ad services to allow a user of client device to communicate in real time e.g. live with a specialist of an advertiser of the live connect Ads. Live connect server may include a live connect system to interface with live content server and availability system to select facilitate available specialists for establishing live communications for example between client devices and service provider devices to render an advertised or requested service to the user of devices by a specialist using service provider devices .

The live content can be a variety of information such as for example Ads sponsored by various Ad providers. The real time live connect Ad service can provide a solution that allows a visitor or a user to access a live specialist e.g. nearby a live person via a communication link established from an advertisement presentation e.g. live content via a desktop device a mobile device a phone device or other devices. For example a visitor may be presented with an Ad via a search on the network e.g. Internet from their desktop or mobile browser for a specific support or service need. An Ad integrated into a real time connected Ad service can be presented to the visitor. From interactions with the Ad presentation the visitor can be connected with an available live support or service person to provide services. Live connect Ad services may be applicable for different kinds of services in various types of businesses.

In one embodiment existing Ad services may be augmented with the live support and service capability when integrated with real time live connect Ad service. A visitor can select a live connect Ad or real time live connect Ad to automatically connect with a live person or service in real time without a need to make additional contact request. A registered specialist can be connected to the visitor when the Ad is selected e.g. clicked within a short time period e.g. or less minutes or other applicable specified time period or a scheduled time period without requiring the visitor to wait for later and or unspecified date time by way of filling out a form or sending an email to the business advertising services. Live connect Ad service can perform analytics on data received from existing Ad services e.g. originated from a client device used by a user or a visitor to provide intelligent routing between the visitor and a highly skilled specialist. For example the data may include presence and geo location information to allow the live connect Ad service to present those specialists who can meet up with the visitor for specific services.

Live connect Ad solution service can make intelligent decisions to serve live connect Ads with a multitude of situational and presence based capabilities. For example a live connect Ad of a company or a service provider a specialist may be presented to a visitor at a specific day and time based on whether a live person of the company is available. A live connect Ad for a specialist may be presented or served when this specialist is available to talk real time once the Ad is clicked through via the visitor or user .

In one embodiment the availability of a specialist for presenting a live connect Ad to a visitor may be determined based on but not limited to presence of the specialist location of the specialist geographic proximity between the visitor and the specialist expertise of the specialist and or other applicable information made available. Presence of a specialist may be based on a presence indicator managed or updated by the specialist e.g. when logging into a management system for the live connect Ad service management system . Location of a specialist may be based on the current geo location of the specialist collected from an associated mobile device. Proximity between a visitor and a specialist may be determined based on geo locations detected or collected from separate devices used by the visitor and the specialist.

In one embodiment if the specialist and the visitor are in different geographic locations e.g. different states yet the specialist is present and available and can service the visitor virtually without meeting face to face then a live connect Ad can be offered or served to the visitor to establish a communication link in real time between the specialist and the visitor on the visitor s request. However if a face to face meeting is required for a service provided by the specialist no live connect Ad of this remote specialist with respect to the visitor would be offered to the visitor. The live connect Ad system may include configurations or settings including business rules or knowledge for example specifying which specialists or companies can serve visitors remotely or face to face i.e. locally according to requirements of the services provided.

Service campaigns or advertisements for a specialist or a company may be configured with proximity settings for example to only allow face to face meet up with a visitor only allow virtual meet up e.g. online connections with a visitor allow a mix of face to face and virtual met up with a visitor or apply other applicable constraints or requirements. If a face to face meet up is required as an example a live connect Ad for a specialist can be served to a visitor if the specialist and visitor are in the same state within a specified distance from the visitor and the specialist is present and available.

In some embodiments availability of a specialist or company may depend on time or schedule required or indicated by a visitor to meet face to face with the specialist. The live connect Ad service can identify multiple factors such as travel time type of urgencies etc. to determine whether a certain specialist can be available for the visitor. The live connect Ad service can extract a schedule request from a visitor e.g. based on search terms to select which specialists e.g. via Ad campaign settings are available for the requested schedule e.g. day time to provide possible services to the visitor e.g. face to face or online .

According to one embodiment when a visitor associated with client device accesses via its corresponding client application content presented by content server based on the user interaction with the content server for example interaction with static content content server communicates with live content server to request live content such as live content to be presented to the visitor. In response to the request live content server identifies one or more live content that are eligible or related to the request. For each of the identified live content live content server communicates with live connect server to determine whether there is at least one specialist or user that is currently available to have a live communication with the visitor.

Live content server may maintain a content database that stores all the live content that have been registered and configured by different live content owners or administrators in this example represented by client device . In one embodiment for each of the live content that is identified based on the request live content server transmits a request to live connect server including a live content item identifier ID . Based on the content ID availability module also referred to as availability unit or logic of live connect server identifies a list of specialists or support agents who have been previously configured for providing live support to that particular content. For each of the specialists availability module determines whether that specialist is currently available to have a live communication session with the visitor at the moment and the geographic location of the specialist. The availability module determines the availability of the specialists using presence services provided by a presence engine which may be implemented locally or remotely via a third party vendor status or state of the specialists and or geographic locations of the specialists.

In one embodiment information indicating whether a particular live content has at least one available specialist is transmitted from live connect server to live content server . Alternatively a list of zero or more specialists that are currently available is transmitted from live connect server to live content server including the geographic locations of the specialists also referred to as a subject matter experts or SMEs . In response to the list of zero or more specialists live content server selects an appropriate subset of the eligible live content and transmits the selected live content to content server to be presented as part of live content to visitors. Alternatively the selected live content may be directly transmitted to client device which may be integrated with the content delivered by content server by client application . In addition according to one embodiment the list of one or more available specialists or support agents that are associated with the presented live content may also be presented including their respective geographic locations. The geographic locations of the specialists may be presented in a map with respect to a geographic location of the visitor optionally with a geo fence or predetermined geographic proximity . According to one embodiment a live content owner may specify or configure a set of rules not shown under which the corresponding live content may or may not be presented. For example if there is no specialist currently available the content owner may decide not to present the live content or alternatively the content owner may specify in the rules to allow the live content to be presented as static content e.g. static content without presenting the live connect button or control if no specialist is available.

According to one embodiment for each of the live content presented by content server there is a corresponding live connect button or control to allow the visitor to contact the corresponding specialist for a live communication session discussing the subject matter of the live content . The live communication session can be established using a variety of communications methods or channels such as for example voice chat text Web conferencing or social media etc. The visitor of client device may select and contact one of the presented specialists by activating or clicking the corresponding live connect button or control. In response to the activation or click of the live connect button live connect module also referred to as live connect unit or logic of live connect server obtains user information associated with the visitor and routes the information of the visitor to a specialist currently available in this example represented by client application of client device . The user information of the visitor may be collected from the visitor directly for example using an interview or dialog engine to prompt the visitor for contact information of the visitor. In response the specialist can establish a live communication session with the visitor for discussing the live content in question. This is done by the SME clicking a button to accept the request and call or message the visitor. Alternatively when the visitor clicks the live connect button a call is directly made between client device of the visitor and a dedicated person associated with the Ad e.g. administrator or job dispatcher . The dedicated person can then select one of the available SMEs. If the selected SME accepts the assigned job the user information is routed to the selected SME and a live communication session is established.

Since live content is presented dependent upon the availability of the associated specialists and the available specialists may become unavailable from time to time the presented live content may become expired after a predetermined period of time if the visitor does not initiate a live contact by clicking the corresponding live connect button. The rationale behind it is that a specialist may support multiple live Ad campaigns or a single Ad campaign but presented at multiple content presentation servers and or multiple live content servers. A specialist may accept a live communication request at any moment of any of the live content which causes the specialist becoming unavailable. As a result when a visitor clicks a live connect button if the corresponding live content has expired the live content may be refreshed by the content presentation server and or live content server in which the live connect server is invoked to determine the availability of the specialists for the same live Ads again.

According to one embodiment system may be utilized to provide live advertising from various advertisement providers. For example live content server may represent an Ad server and or Ad network in which an advertisement owner can set up and configure an advertisement to be distributed by Ad server . The advertisement owner can also configure a set of one or more specialists in live connect server that are associated with the advertisement presented by Ad server . Content server may be a Web server that provides information accessed to a visitor represented by client device .

For example content server may be a Web server with a search engine e.g. Yahoo or Google search Web site . As an Ad owner a plumbing company may set up an Ad account in Ad server having a plumber related advertisement. In addition the Ad owner may further set up one or more plumbers as specialists or agents for the plumber advertisement in live connect server including registering their client devices and communication methods to contact them. When visitor performs a search of a keyword such as I need a plumber via a search engine the Ad server will identify the Ad setup for plumbing and collect specialist availability from live connect server pass information to content server which would transmit information representing what the visitor is currently interested in in this example plumber to live content server for inquiring any advertisements related to plumber. Based on the request live content server searches in a live content database which is stored in a persistent storage such as a hard drive of a data processing system to identify a list of advertisements that have been previously registered and associated with the keyword in this example. For each of the identified advertisements live content server as an Ad network communicates with live connect server to determine a list of specialists that are associated with the Ad in question. For example server may send an Ad ID to server to request a list of specialists currently available for that particular Ad identified by the Ad ID. Sever may further send user information of the visitor to live connect server such as for example name address and or geographic location of the visitor.

Availability module of live connect server determines zero or more specialists that are currently available based on their respective geographic locations. The list of available specialists and their geographic locations are sent back to live content server . Live content server then transmits the live connect advertisement to client device via content server or directly to client device to be integrated by client application therein. A live connect Ad may be presented with a corresponding live connect button or control to allow the visitor to contact an available specialists. In one embodiment only the advertisements that have at least one specialist available are presented to the visitor otherwise the advertisement may be presented as static advertisement for example without live connect buttons or suppressed all together based on the Ad configuration.

According to another embodiment content server may be social networking server e.g. Facebook Twitter in which Ads are displayed to their users. Users may interact with the social networking server and based on the user interaction with the social network server may communicate with live content server to obtain a list of live connect advertisements associated with available specialists. The users can contact the available specialists from the advertisements at the point in time. For example when a visitor interacts with a social Web site for example by typing need a plumber can someone help the user interactions are monitored by the social Web site. In response the social Web site creates a search package with one or more search terms and pushes the search package back to a client device of the visitor prompting the visitor to click a search link presented by the search package. When the visitor clicks on the link it causes browser to be displayed and a search is performed according to the search package. The search request is received by a predetermined search engine and the above processes are then performed amongst the search engine the live content server and the live connect server as described above.

Note that the system configuration as shown in is described for illustration purpose only. Other configurations may exist. For example content server and live content server may be implemented as a single server or a cluster of associated servers e.g. within the same domain . Live connect server may be integrated with a server or a cluster of servers representing a support center. A multi channel communication system associated with a support center can be utilized to establish a communication session between a visitor and a specialist. Similarly an Ad owner can utilize other resources of the support center such as the infrastructure of the support service system e.g. multi channel communication system support agent management and routing data analytics capability presence service etc. to provide support services to the advertisements.

In response to the request for live content live content server searches a live content database maintained therein not shown to identify a list of live content that is associated with the search information provided by content server . The live content has been previously configured or registered by the corresponding live content owners or administrators. For each of the identified live content live content server transmits a request to live connect server via transaction for availability information of SMEs associated with the specific live content. The request may include a content ID identifying the live content and optional some visitor information e.g. geographic location of the visitor . In response live connect server identifies a list of zero or more of SMEs that are available at the point in time. Live connect server may search in an SME or agent database not shown based on SME information such as for example SMEs status e.g. SMEs with status of available geographic location of the SMEs and skill set e.g. Ad campaign configuration etc. Live connect server returns the list of zero or more available SMEs back to live content server via transaction .

Based on the available SMEs provided by live connect server live content server determines a list of one or more live content to be presented to the visitor. In one embodiment only the live content that has at least one SME available will be represented to the visitor. Alternatively if multiple live content having available SMEs are associated with the search information live content server may select a subset that are most appropriate under the circumstances. For example if a search result page provided by content server only has enough space for two Ads live content sever may select two of the multiple live content that have SMEs whose geographic locations closest to the geographic location of the visitor. The selection of the live content may also be upon other data or rules e.g. privilege or membership level of the live content owners .

The search result as well as the live content is then delivered to client device and presented to the visitor by client application . In one embodiment the live content may be transmitted by live content server to client device directly via transaction while the search result is delivered to client device by content server via transaction . The live content is then rendered and incorporated with the search result by client application . In this embodiment content server may instruct client application and or live content server by indicating in the search result the location and size of space for presenting the live content. In return live content server transmits executable code e.g. HTML XML JavaScript etc. to client application to allow client application to render the live content and incorporate the live content with the search result. Alternatively according to an alternative embodiment live content server sends information representing the live content to content server via transaction . Content server integrates the live content with the search result and sends the search result with the live content integrated therein to client device via transaction . Furthermore when content server sends the request for live content via transaction it may also send the search result page to live content server . The live content server is responsible to render the live content with the search result and sends the integrated search result to client device via transaction . Other configurations may exist.

According to one embodiment when the visitor activates the live connect button presented as part of the live content a live connect request is transmitted to live connect server via transaction . That is when the visitor clicks the live connect button the underlying executable code is executed and as a result the request is sent to a predetermined destination address i.e. live connect server or a specific SME e.g. SME or agent device . The live connect request may request for a text voice chat communications session. If the live connect button has been configured as a voice connection when the visitor clicks the live connect button a data message is transmitted to live connect server and routed to a predetermined SME in this example SME device via transaction . The data message may include a phone number of the visitor. When client application of SME device receives the message the SME can simply click the phone number to initiate a voice call with the visitor. For text or chat communications method the SME can invoke the corresponding text chat application to establish a text chat communications session with the visitor in this example client device via transaction . Alternatively the live communications session may be established by a multi channel communications system for example as part of a support center associated with live connect server .

According to one embodiment if the SME becomes unavailable or is unwilling to accept the request the request is routed to a preconfigured dedicated person which may be an overflow SME an administrator or a dispatch person. If the request is routed to a dispatcher the dispatcher can select another SME from a dispatch or SME management interface and causes the request to be routed to the alternative SME. The dispatcher can also accept the request and communicate with the visitor. When the SME accepts the request through client application the client may automatically communicate with live connect server to change its status for example from available to unavailable. By changing the status from available to unavailable a subsequent request will not be routed to the same SME. This may also change the availability of the associated live content to be presented to another visitor. The status and states of the SMEs are maintained by live connect server in an SME or agent database not shown .

In one embodiment live connect server further includes an SME management module or manager that is responsible for registering SMEs and tracking the status and states of the SMEs. A client application of an SME device e.g. client application of SME device may periodically communicate with the SME management module to update the status and states of the SME which will be stored in an SME database. The SME manager can access the information stored in the SME database and perform certain management actions such as taskforce management by allocating different SMEs to different jobs or Ad campaigns for workload balance purposes.

The SME manager may further communicate with the customer in view of the status or states of the SMEs. For example when an SME goes to customer s premises for performing a job that has been negotiated between the SME and the customer the SME may set its state via its client application of the SME device to on the way job site state in the SME database. In response the SME manager or some other components may dynamically set up a geo fence e.g. a geographic proximity with certain size and tracking the physical movement of the SME. For example the SME management system may periodically receive location information from the application running within SME device e.g. client application of SME device . The location information may be obtained by the client application from an operating system of the SME device. In one embodiment when the SME enters the geo fence the SME management module sends or pushes SME information to customer s client device e.g. visitor device . The SME information may include a picture of the SME and other identifying information of the SME and the job to be performed. As a result the customer can positively know who he or she is dealing with for security reason. By monitoring the status and states of SMEs the SME manager can proactively manage the availability of the SMEs and proactively engage with the customers to further improve customer s satisfaction.

In response social post monitor sends a message with a link to client application of client device via transaction . The message may include a button link or control to prompt the visitor that the visitor can find a plumbing specialist who is currently available and possibly nearby. The visitor can activate the link or control which in turn sends a message to live content server via transaction . The link or control may be generated by social monitor including underlying executable code which when executed e.g. by activating the link or control sends a message to a predetermined destination in this example live content server . The message may include information describing the requested content information e.g. plumbing and or related services as well as certain information concerning the visitor e.g. geographic location of the visitor . The visitor information may also be obtained via information from the visitor s social networking account provided by social networking server . In response to the message received from client device live content server identifies a list of live content that have been registered with the live content server and the rest of operations involved in transaction to transaction are performed similar to those involved in transaction to transaction of . Note that an Ad is utilized as an example of a live content throughout this application. However the techniques described throughout can also be applied to other types of content such as for example media content documents presentations etc.

Interface module may include live connect live content management module to manage content data included in live connect Ads based on for example Ads templates stored in a database or storage device. Live connect management module can filter a list of requests e.g. each request associated with a business for live connect advertising received from an external Ads network according to whether associated specialists are available e.g. via availability module or logic and or other configured selection criteria e.g. via live connect module or logic . No live connect Ads will be provided for these requests if no specialists are available at the time these requests are received. Note that live connect interface module may also be implemented within an Ad server such as server of .

In one embodiment executable code e.g. script or other applicable instructions executable in a client device may be embedded in a user interface element e.g. a button link or control generated via live connect management module or logic to allow establishment of live communications. The code may include timer mechanism that will automatically expire if the user interface element is presented to a client device for a specified period of time without receiving user inputs e.g. clicking on a live connect button . When expired the user interface element may be automatically updated for example to ask a user e.g. a visitor of the client device to cause a refresh of the user interface element e.g. sending another request directly to system or a web server coupled with system etc. .

Availability module can determine whether there is a match no match or degrees of match between a specialist and a visitor. For example presence engine presence determination logic can determine whether a specialist or a group of specialists is currently registered for providing services via live communications and the current state of the specialist. A specialist may be available if this specialist is registered and also in an available state which can change in real time . Geo location engine or location determination logic can identify or track current locations of the visitor s and the specialists. In some embodiments geo location engine can provide routing guidance and or dynamic vicinity area such as geo fence of the visitor to facilitate face to face meeting between a visitor and a specialist.

The geo location engine may perform operations to capture extract and or identify location and tracking information for both a visitor as well as specialists of the support or service. For example geo location engine can obtain geo location information of the specialists and visitors via external location service providers through an interview with the visitors and or specialists and or other user actions. Alternatively geo location engine may communicate with a client application running with a client device of the specialists and or visitors to obtain geo location information and determine the geographic location in real time. The presence engine may determine availability of a specialist or a group of specialists to support or service a visitor at the time a request is made for example via the visitor s clicking through on a custom ad e.g. a live connect ad . Once a specialist is identified and selected the live connect Ad system can route the visitor to the specialist to establish a communication link. The geo location engine may perform operations to support Ad based live interactions by collecting location information for both the visitor and the specialist. For example current locations of the visitor and specialists may be identified and or updated e.g. tracked monitored via the geo location module. A specialist that is located within a local vicinity of the visitor may be recommended based on an analysis e.g. via DAE module on the identified location information.

In one embodiment the identified e.g. real time monitored geo location information of both the visitor and the specialist may be leveraged to provide navigational guidance for the specialist to travel to the visitor s location for face to face meetings work to be performed etc. A geo fence may be created e.g. dynamically via the live connect ad service around the visitor s location to allow sending timely notifications to the visitor of the specialist s arrival at the meeting or work place. A specialist s information and photo may be sent to the visitor for verification and security purposes.

The presence engine may identify whether a specialist is currently registered on the support center system for the live connect ad service and in which state e.g. indicating availability the specialist is currently. The live connect ad service may automatically include or exclude the specialist for establishing a communication link with a visitor based on the state of the specialist. For example if the specialist is in a state or status other than available the visitor will not be informed of this specialist for further their interactions. States other than available or non available states for the specialist may include for example not available on a call in meeting on job off site in training or other applicable states. The specialist may be associated with one single state at a time. A visitor may not be routable to a specialist currently in an unavailable state.

The state or status settings e.g. terms for states and or status may be customized to the specific needs of an owner of specific live content e.g. specific Ad campaign . Each company of the live content may have different state and or status definitions and rules associated with the states and status. Each live content of the same company e.g. Ad campaign may have different states and status settings. The customized states and status may be presented and set via the client application of an SME who has been associated with or assigned to a specific live content. As described above an SME may be associated with multiple Ad campaigns dependent upon which of the associated Ad campaigns the SME currently logs into the terms definitions and or rules of the states and status may be the same or different. An administrator or owner of the live content can configure such terms definitions and rules via a management or administration interface or portal not shown of live connect server and the terms definitions and rules of the states and status can be stored as part of a client account of client database maintained by live connect server .

Data analytics engine DAE or data analyzer can perform analysis operations on data collected for a visitor from various sources such as visitor data passed via interface module and or visitor data identified via live connect management module . Data analytics engine may include customized algorithms or rules selectively applied for the analysis operations as instructed. In one embodiment SME selection module or logic can determine which specialist s best match a visitor based on analysis results of data analytics engine . For example SME selection module can select a specialist from multiple specialists available for an onsite service requested by a visitor e.g. via a live connect Ad ranked by data analytics engine based on closeness or accessibility of geo locations related to the visitor and the specialists.

DAE can analyze available data to determine or select applicable live connect ads for a visitor. Data utilized by DAE may include data collected from a client device e.g. used by the visitor based on client actions e.g. search actions or user behavior via a client application e.g. a browser geo locations of the client device geo locations of the specialist e.g. via an associated mobile device and or other pertinent data. DAE module may be configured with different analysis algorithms for different live content to perform customized data analysis created for the corresponding businesses.

For example DAE can analyze Ads related data passed to the live connect Ad service e.g. a support center to determine a best route between a visitor and a specialist e.g. to meet up with the visitor or establish a communication link with the visitor . Optionally or alternatively DAE can analyze in real time data collected via interview engine or interview data geo information and or presence information to identify the best route via custom models based on the details and or output events interpreted by the system as navigation and or routing instructions for the best skilled specialist matching the visitor s requirements. DAE may analyze combined Ads related data and interview data for the best route.

In one embodiment live connect routing module or logic may exchange messages with a client device e.g. based on embedded code in a live connect button used by a visitor to establish a real time live communication between the visitor and a specialist. For example live connect routing module may receive a message from the client device via the embedded code for presenting a live connect button of a live connect Ad to the visitor. Live connect routing module may determine whether any specialist associated with the live connect Ad is currently available via availability module . Depending on whether there are live specialists available e.g. available and local to the visitor the live connect button may be presented differently. For example the live connect button may not be presented if there is no specialist currently available. If there are specialists available live connect routing module may exchange messages with the client device to establish a live communication link between the client device and a device used by a specialist selected via for example availability handler module .

System may include live connect module to maintain manage data related to visitors and specialists. For example content e.g. advertiser management module or logic can provide administrative interfaces for businesses or specialists registered for live connect Ad service. Content management module may include or couple with a demand side platform or DSP to interface with multiple external content e.g. Ad exchanges or infrastructures. Visitor data management module or logic can extract visitor related data from requests received from the live content server such as for example Ad servers e.g. live connect Ad requests or visitor client devices e.g. button clicks . In some embodiments visitor data management module may include or couple with a data marketing platform or DMP to identify visitor data from multiple sources for example applicable for availability decision and or specialist selection in availability module . Interview engine or logic may be activated to solicit e.g. via user interfaces presented in a browser application of a client device used by a visitor additional visitor information in real time.

In one embodiment rule engine may include custom configurations or settings which can be leveraged or referenced for customizable data analysis and or visitor routing to a specialist e.g. matching the specialist with the visitor . Optionally interview engine may enforce custom interviews to be required of visitors to collect additional information that can be utilized for routing to a specialist or for information the specialist can leverage within the interaction with the visitor. Feedback engine can facilitate social postings from a visitor. For example comments experience or a few words about their experience from a visitor upon completion of an interaction with a specialist via a company s Ad can be posted to a variety of social systems such as Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In etc. via the social feedback engine.

According to one embodiment live connect module or logic may include SME management module or logic for registering and tracking specialists providing services advertised over live connect Ad services. For example SME management module can provision a specialist for participating in live connect Ad service. SME management module may track job status and or current states of specialists via mobile applications running in client devices used by specialists. SME DB may store registration information of specialists businesses and or current states or related information tracked real time for the specialists. Business rule engine may include configurable settings rules to control operations performed in live connect Ad services.

For example the business rules may be applied to determine or enable disable visibility of the live connect button when no agents or specialists are present visibility of the live connect button when no agents are available even though they are present whether to enable or disable button image change based on specific prequalification states or values associated with the visitor e.g. the user presented with the live connect advertisement . Different button image may be displayed based on analysis data via DAE and or a visitor s prequalification.

Business rules may include setups or settings in the live connect Ad system to allow or restrict a specific capability or feature related to entities such as a visitor and or a specialist. Exemplary setups may include enabling disabling capabilities related to 

Activities of live connect Ad services provided in system may be captured logged in content activity DB . The logged activities may indicate for example a history of requests received from external Ad servers or Ad networks corresponding live connect Ads served visitor data live communications established and or attempted between a recorded visitor and a specialist s job history job statues visitor comments or other applicable transaction data. Report module may generate various reports based on or derived from data captured in log report DB . For example history of live connect services may be analyzed to reveal a variety of statistics related to a business participating in a live connect Ad services. The statistics may include number of times or frequencies live Ads were served number of specialists responded number of live conversations communications established number of jobs completed or other applicable service characteristics etc.

As described above live connect server may be integrated or communicatively coupled to a server or a cluster of servers e.g. cloud servers representing a support center. In one embodiment data communications and routing request logic may include a set of java script code or other applicable script code to be executed in a client device to enable communications to the support center. When executed the logic can provide a button for the visitor to click to engage with a specialist. The logic may communicate the necessary data from an Ad system to the support center for analysis. The channel skill specified in the code may be updated based on a response received back from the live connect Ad service e.g. based on the data analysis by the DAE to change the route to a skilled specialist for a live communication to be established for the specific visitor. The logic may communicate to the support center the initiation e.g. via the visitor of a request for the associated channel and skill to establish the live communication e.g. predominantly voice or chat .

Once a live communication session has been established the support center may collect or log interaction activities between the visitor the specialists and the live connect Ad system. This information can be stored into a database e.g. database for operational reporting and analysis of the efficiency of the live connect ad system. The support center may perform data processing operations to enable interactive advertisement activities message routing data communication and data collection during the course of the interaction.

Photos from the visitor can be taken e.g. dynamically via the live communication link and communicated to the specialist allowing a remote view into the needs of the visitors issue. A specialist can then determine the scope of the job the amount of work required to complete the job e.g. short job or long job one person or multiple person job whether the specialist business has the exact expertise to perform the work or other characteristics attributes of the job based on the visitor needs and the business s capabilities. As a result the job may be agreed or declined between the specialist and the visitor in real time via the live communication link.

The live connect Ad service may work with Ad services to provide a variety of types of real time live connected advertisements. For example a live connected advertisement may result from direct internet or web searches landing pages of search results landing pages of mapping related search results web navigation from rich media advertisement e.g. banner ads video playing e.g. video placement ads video overlaying TV television connection mobile connections navigations or other applicable advertisement triggering opportunities.

The live connect Ad services may perform routing operations after a form of analysis is completed to determine a route to a skill channel in order to reach a specialist in support of visitors needs based on live connect Ads clicked. The support center system of the live connect Ad services can support a number of routing or communications channels such as traditional voice IVR interactive voice recording voice traditional chat Facebook chat Facebook posts Twitter posts SMS short message service messages or other application real time communication links etc. An Ad network associated with the live connect Ad services may set up advertising operations that leverage one or many of these channels. Each channel can be setup to show or hide the button a visitor would click based on availability of a specialist. The code behind or embedded in the button or other UI elements may include processing logic to communicate with the support center to determine such availability.

Referring back to when an availability request for live content is received from an Ad server e.g. server via interface module SME selection module searches in SME DB to identify a list of SMEs that are associated with the live content. For example as shown in SME selection module examines table or data structure to determine a list of SMEs and based on the SMEs presence engine and geolocation engine determine whether the SMEs are online and their respective geographic locations. In one embodiment based on the SME IDs SME selection module determines based on table or data structure the availability of each of the SMEs that are associated with the live content in question.

In one embodiment the request for live content received from live content server may include a content ID identifying a specific live content e.g. media content or media documents in this example a specific live connect Ad campaign. If there are multiple Ad campaigns associated with a particular live content owner the request may further include a client ID identifying that client. The request may further includes certain user information of the visitor such as a geographic location associated with the visitor at which the requested service will be performed. Based on the content ID and or client ID SME selection module accesses a client account based on the client ID or content ID in client DB to identify a list of SMEs that are associated with the client and or requested content. For each of the SMEs the SME selection module accesses SME DB to determine the states and or status of the SMEs and to select the SMEs that are currently available at the point in time.

Referring now to which represents at least a portion of client DB as shown in . Specifically data structure or table may represent a client account or entry of a particular client e.g. a live content owner maintained as part of client DB . In one embodiment data structure includes one or more entries each corresponding to a specific live content in this example a live connect Ad which may be identified by content ID . Content ID may be received from live content server when an administrator of the client provisioned live content for example creating a live connect Ad. Each entry may further includes an optional group ID or name describing the live content one or more SME IDs identifying the SMEs that have been associated with the live content ID identifying an administrator dispatcher or an overflow SME for the live content terminology defined for that specific live content one or more rules governing the live content and communications methods or channels e.g. voice chat text email social networking to be utilized for supporting the live content. Terminology includes the terms defining the states and status of the associated SMEs such as available and unavailable. An example of the terminology and rules is shown in for a client providing plumbing services.

Note that the configuration as shown in is described for illustration purposes only other layouts formats and or architectures may also be utilized. For example data structure may be indexed or sorted based on a client identifier identifying an owner or author of live content. Data structure may also be indexed or sorted based content identifiers identifying the specific live content. Client database represented by data structure may further include a query interface that allows a component to query based on different types of query terms such as for example client identifiers content identifiers etc.

Referring now to which may be part of SME DB and or content activity DB table or data structure includes multiple entries. Each entry corresponds to an SME identified by SME ID . Each SME entry further includes one or more live content IDs that the corresponding SME are associated with. For example a single SME may be associated with multiple Ad campaigns as shown in . An SME entry further includes geographic location of the SME current job state of the SME current status of the SME contact information of the SME skill set of the SME and other information such as user preferences or a picture of the SME . Status may be one of available and unavailable. Job state may be one of accepted in process on hold transferred canceled and completed. Note that the data structures as shown in are described for illustration purpose only other formats or layouts may also be implemented. Furthermore data associated with the SMEs and or live content may also be stored therein.

According to one embodiment referring to live connect content interface module of live connect server receives a request for availability information of SMEs associated with a live content. In response availability module is invoked to determine a client ID and or a content ID identifying the requested live content of a particular client e.g. a particular Ad of an Ad owner from the request as well as other user information of a visitor. In one embodiment DAE performs an analysis on the request for example determining the content ID and user information from the request. Geo location engine is to determine a geographic location associated with the visitor based on the analysis of the user information. SME selection module accesses client DB to identify based on list of one or more registered live content of the client based on the client ID and or content.

Specifically in one embodiment SME selection module identifies a client account based on the client ID for example client account data as shown in . Based on content ID SME selection module identifies a list of one or more SMEs . For each of the identified SMEs SME selection module accesses SME DB and determines the states and or status of the identified SMEs from the client account of for example based on SME IDs as shown in . SME selection module selects one or more SMEs that are currently available at the point in time where the availability of the SMEs may be determined by presence engine . SME selection module then transmits via interface module to live content server the SME information such as for example SME information as shown in including but is not limited to an indicator indicating whether an SME is currently available and the geographic location of the SME. Similarly the configuration as shown in is described for illustration purposes only other layouts formats and or architectures may also be utilized. Data structures and may be maintained in a single database or multiple databases.

According to one embodiment referring back to the list of available SMEs is transmitted to the Ad server via interface module . The Ad server e.g. server can then decide what live connect Ads will be presented to the visitors for example based on the availability of the SMEs and other factors e.g. geographic locations of the available SMEs which may be configured as part of rules or configurations at the Ad server. Subsequently when the visitor clicks a live connect button of an Ad a request is received at live connect server where the request includes identifying information of the visitor e.g. visitor s contact information . In response live connect module selects an available SME and informs live connect routing module to route the visitor s information to a selected SME s client device to allow the selected SME to establish a live communication session with the visitor which can be a voice text video chat social forum etc. The availability of the communications methods or channels may be determined based on the client s settings and or individual live content settings e.g. settings of which may be the same or different from one client to another client or from one live content to another live content of the same client.

According to one embodiment when a selected SME becomes unavailable or unwilling to accept a live connect request from the visitor live connect routing module routes the request to a pre configured overflow SME such as one or more overflow SMEs specified in field of . There may be multiple overflow SMEs configured including but are not limited to a primary overflow SME and a secondary overflow SME. The overflow SME s may be specified by an administrator of the live content and stored in the corresponding client account of client DB . In addition SME management module may automatically set the state of the SME from available to unavailable. Alternatively in response to a rejection from the assigned SME the request may be routed to a preconfigured administrator or dispatcher manager . The administrator then dispatch the request to another SME who is available and willing to accept the request. The administrator can also accept the request operating as an SME. The rerouting of the request may be performed according to a specific set of rules e.g. rules associated with that specific live content owner. Note that any of the components as shown in can be implemented as logic in software hardware or a combination thereof. The content activity database SME database and client database may be maintained in a persistent storage device such as a hard drive. Data stored in these databases can be loaded by a processor into a memory to be accessed by other components as shown in .

In one embodiment content processing module can identify a list of possible live content in this embodiment advertisements e.g. identified by advertiser identifiers from content DB based on client data extracted from client service requests e.g. a search term geo location network address etc. One or more of the possible advertisements may be registered with live connect capability e.g. live connect advertisers in the content DB for the purpose of illustration an advertisement DB. Live connect module can determine or select which of the identified live connect advertisements are currently available to offer live connect Ads according to the live connect capability.

For example live availability service module can determine locally or remotely availability states of specialists associated with the identified live connect advertisers. In some embodiments live availability service module may be notified e.g. pushed for example from a remote or locally coupled live connect service with changes of availability states of specialists related to live connect advertisers registered in advertisements DB . The information of the specialists may be stored and or cached in SME or agent database from SME agent database of live connect server of . Live connect module can select a number of the identified live connect advertisements who are currently available e.g. having specialists with available states for content processing module .

Live content generation module can generate or retrieve live connect Ad content for selected live connect advertisers. Live connect Ad content may include for example a live connect button or other applicable user interface element indicating to a visitor that a live person is available to offer a service in real time. Live connect Ad content may include instructions e.g. script code or other applicable processing specifications embedded with a user interface element e.g. a button to be executed in a client device when activated by user actions to cause establishment of live connections between for example the client device and devices used by specialists with available states. In some embodiment the embedded instructions may cause the client device to notify send requests to the content presentation server to refresh for example the live connect Ad content after a specified time period e.g. 20 seconds or other applicable time out period . Changes of availability states of related specialists may update the user interface elements of the live connect Ad. For example if the specialists are no longer available the live connect button may be removed or disabled from the live connect Ad displayed in the client device in real time.

According to another embodiment an administrator of a company may configure or set up an Ad a configuration user interface e.g. Web interface not shown. The administrator may utilize standard Ad templates provided by live content server and the Ads are stored in content database . In response to a request received from a content presentation server e.g. Yahoo or Google search engine content processing module searches in content DB based on the information obtained from the request e.g. search term to identify one or more live Ads that have been previously registered with server . An intelligent analysis may be performed to identify the related Ads. For each of the identified Ads live availability service module communicate with another server i.e. live connect server to obtain a list of zero or more SMEs that are available at the point in time including their respective geographic locations. Based on the available SMEs the live Ads are then transmitted to the visitors optionally via the content presentation server.

According to one embodiment availability service module transmits a query to live connect server to inquire whether a particular content or Ad has at least one SME currently available. The definition of available refers to an SME has logged into the live connect server and set its status available. Merely logging into the live connect server only indicates that the SME is presence not necessarily available. In one embodiment the query message may include one or more Ad IDs representing the live Ads that have been registered and found in live content DB . In response live connect server identifies a list of zero or more SMEs for each of the Ads being queried and return a result back to live content server .

According to one embodiment as shown in the returned message or data packet includes one or more segments or data structures corresponding to the one or more Ads being query. Each data structure includes one of the Ad ID e.g. Ad ID identifying a corresponding Ad and an indication e.g. indication indicating whether the Ad is available or alive. If the corresponding Ad is available or alive the data structure also includes a list of one or more SMEs that have been configured and associated with the Ad. Each SME in the list includes an SME ID e.g. SME IDs identifying the corresponding SME an indication e.g. indications indicating whether the SME is available and geographic location information of the SME. The geographic location of an SME may be presented by longitude data and latitude data that are compatible with GPS data. For each of the Ads that is available or live e.g. with at least one available SME the return information further includes a communication link for each of the communication methods e.g. text voice links and a map link e.g. map link linking with a geographic location of the Ad. For example if the Ad supports both text and voice communication methods there will be two links presented one for each of the methods. The link or links include embedded therein executable code and to be associated with a live connect button or buttons e.g. buttons or controls of to allow a visitor to contact the live connect server in real time when the corresponding Ad is presented. In this example as shown in SMEs and are available and SME is unavailable. Note that if an Ad is indicated as unavailable the list of SME may not be provided by the live connect server. According to one embodiment live connect server may periodically send or push updated availability information to live content server to be cached in SME DB using the similar protocols or data structures as shown in . Furthermore the detailed information of the specialists may also be periodically synchronized between live content server and live connect server .

According to one embodiment live content server further includes content provisioning module to provision or configure live content stored in live content database or store . Provisioning module may provide a content provisioning interface not shown to allow a content owner or administrator to provision live content. For example a user may create a live content account stored in live content database and provision one or more live content such as for example live connect Ads. The user may use a live content template such as an Ad template to create a live connect Ad. An example of Ad templates are shown in . Once the live content has been provisioned and stored in content database content provisioning module transmits the identifying information e.g. a live content ID of the live content to live connect server of to be populated or incorporated into a live connect account associated with the live content owner. As a result the live content account maintained in live content server is linked with a live connect account maintained in live connect server .

According to one embodiment live content server as an Ad server may be communicatively coupled for example via a set of agreed upon application programming interfaces APIs or protocols to a specific Ad network being one of the Ad server members of the Ad network. Alternatively according to an alternative embodiment live content server may be communicatively coupled to multiple Ad networks for example using multiple Ad network interfaces not shown each corresponding to one of the Ad networks such as for example Yahoo Google Microsoft Bing etc. According to a further embodiment there may multiple live content servers one for each of the supported Ad networks communicatively coupled to the live connect server .

An Ad network represents an entity that connects advertisers to Web sites that want to host advertisements. The key function of an Ad network is aggregation of Ad space supply from publishers and matching it with advertiser demand. The phrase Ad network by itself is media neutral in the sense that there can be a Television Ad Network or a Print Ad Network but is increasingly used to mean online ad network as the effect of aggregation of publisher ad space and sale to advertisers is most commonly seen in the online space. An Ad server is a computer server specifically a Web server backed by a database server that stores advertisements used in online marketing and delivers them to website visitors. The content of the webserver is constantly updated so that the website or webpage on which the ads are displayed contains new advertisements e.g. banners static images animations or text when the site or page is visited or refreshed by a user. The purpose of Ad serving is to deliver Ads to users to manage a websites advertising space and in the case of advertiser Ad servers to provide an independent counting and tracking system for advertisers.

Note that any of the components as shown in can be implemented as logic in software hardware or a combination thereof. Live content DB and cached SME DB may be stored in a persistent storage device such as a hard drive. Data stored in these databases can be loaded by a processor into a memory to be accessed by other components as shown in . Also note that although a live connect Ad is utilized as an example of live content throughout this application however it will be appreciated that the techniques described throughout this application can also be applied to other types of content such as for example media content media presentation or media documents etc.

In one embodiment at transaction Ad network can request LCA server to determine which of the live connect Ads are live e.g. there is at least one SME currently available . For example Ad network can forward a list of identifiers of the candidate live connect Ads to LCA server for providing a specified number e.g. 2 or other number of live connect ads which are currently available. LCA server may provide live connect service such as live connect service of . Ad network server may pass visitor related data such as geo locations urgency schedule or other applicable data to LCA server to identify availability of live connect ads.

Specialists may have availability states timely updated with LCA server to indicate whether they are currently available for live connect services. For example a change of state from unavailable to available of a specialist SME may be notified from SME or agent device such as device of used by the specialist to LCA server at transaction . Accordingly LCA server can maintain an up to date state for the specialist for possible participation in live connect Ads service.

At transaction in one embodiment LCA server may analyze data received from Ad network to determine current availability of a list of candidate live connect Ads. LCA server may query currently available SMEs e.g. based on availability states and match geo locations to identify available SMEs based on visitor data received. At transaction the identified SMEs may be returned to Ad Network . In turn Ad Network can forward identified SMEs as selected live connect Ads and other applicable data to Ad Server at transaction . At transaction Ad sever can send packaged data e.g. for creating Ad content with availability info as part of Ad content e.g. live connect Ads to client device via web server .

The visitor may select live connect Ads presented in a returned search result for example by clicking on a live connect button in the live connect Ads. Embedded code in the live connect button may be executed in client device to exchange messages with LCA sever . At transaction client device may present a user interface UI prompt for user contact information e.g. phone number address or other visitor data . The visitor may fill out the contact information for a mobile browser of client device to send out service requests to LCA server at transaction .

LCA server may identify and or select available SMEs e.g. SMEs currently available for establishing live connections and send service messages to SME device e.g. via a mobile application for live connect Ad services used by the selected SMEs at transaction . SME device may receive user interface actions from SMEs to accept the service request at transaction . For example SMEs may click on call now button to accept the service request. In one embodiment SME device may notify LCA server changes of availability state of the SME e.g. becoming unavailable at transaction . A live communication session may be established between SME device and client device at transaction . The live communication session may be established based on existing communication networks e.g. phone network messaging network etc. out of band from advertisement connections sending live connect Ads. Alternatively or optionally the live communication session may be established based on connections established for serving live connect Ads e.g. in band .

The visitor and the SME may converse to determine if the SME will receive the work or not. The visitor may decide to contract the SME and the SME heads to the visitor s location. The live communication link e.g. a call between the visitor and the SME may then be disconnected. At transaction messages may be sent from SME device to LCA server to update service status or job status e.g. in progress complete on job etc. for the job requested by the visitor via live connect Ads. At transaction in one embodiment after the job is completed a notification may be sent from SME device to LCA sever for a state change of the SME to become available again for receiving additional service requests.

At transaction in one embodiment in response to an approval of an administrator service admin server may send an approval message to SME device to approve participation of the specialist for example via the mobile application to the live connect Ad campaign or service. The mobile application may allow change of states of the specialist after receiving the approval from service admin server . At transaction SME device may send a message e.g. in response to UI instructions received from the specialist to service admin server to update availability state of the specialist as available to participate in the live connect Ads service. The message may include authentication data such as login password to authenticate the specialist in service admin server .

At transaction in one embodiment LCA server detects timeout waiting for an indication that the selected specialist associated with SME device has responded to the service messages. The indication may include for example a state change notification from SME device to make the specialist unavailable for new service requests. LCA server may automatically set or force a change of availability state of the specialist to become unavailable when no response was received within a certain period of time for the timeout. A specialist with the unavailable state may not be selected to provide live connect services. At transaction LCA server reroutes service messages received from client device to an overflow SME device used by an overflow specialist designated to provide live service as needed e.g. when a selected specialist fails to respond to service requests or cannot be contacted in real time . A notice of acceptance to the service requests may be sent out from overflow SME device via the overflow specialist. As a result live communication link may be established between client device and overflow SME device even when an originally selected specialist is not available and or when no available specialists can be identified.

At block processing logic determines the status of each of the identified users or agents including determining whether each of the users or agents is available to communicate with the first user to discuss the content item at the point in time. Processing logic may further determine a geographic location for each of the users or specialists that are available. If there is at least one user or agent that is available for the content item at block processing logic sends availability information to the second server for such an indication optionally including a geographic location of at least one available user or agent. Alternatively a list of user or agent IDs identifying available users or agents may be transmitted from the first server to the second server optionally including their respective geographic locations. At block a second request is received from the second server or from a client device of the first user for contacting an available user or agent that is associated with the content item. The second request may include a content ID identifying the content item and contact information of the first user. In response to the second request at block processing logic transmits a message to a second client device or agent device of a second user or agent that is associated with the content item and is available. The message includes contact information of the first user to allow the second user or agent to establish a live communication session with the first user.

At block for each of the identified media content documents processing logic determines a document ID at block transmits the document ID to a second server over a network at block and receives an indication from the second server indicating whether there is at least one agent or specialist currently available for providing live support for the media content document at block . Alternatively a list of zero or more available agents or specialist is received from the second server as well as their respective geographic locations. At block one or more of the identified media content documents that have at least one available agent or specialist are presented to the first user device of the first user. Each of the media content documents is represented with at least one geographic location of the agent or specialist and a live connect button or control to reach the agent or specialist.

As described above the live content server may perform an analysis on the search term as well as the user data to identify a list of live content that has been registered with the live content server. For each of the live content the live content server sends a query to a live connect server e.g. live connect server to obtain the availability information of the live content. The live connect server determines zero to more specialists for each live content that are currently available and turns a signal for such an indication to the live content. Based on the availability information received from the live connect server the live content server determines a list of live content to be sent to the content presentation server. For example the live content server may decide e.g. based on a set of rules configured by the live content owner that only the live content that have at least one available specialist will be sent to the content presentation server to be presented to the visitor.

Referring back to in this example it is assumed live Ads are received from the live content server that has at least one specialist available. Furthermore the geographic locations of the live Ads are also shown in a map . In one embodiment only the live Ads having at least one available specialist within a geographic proximity of the visitor are presented which may be configured or specified by the Ad owners and or the visitor. The visitor can select any of the displayed Ads to evaluate the detailed information of the Ads. Referring now to it is assumed the visitor has selected Ad . In response to the user selection the detailed information of the selected Ad is displayed in display area including some pictures of the service or product provider associated with the selected Ad and a map showing its geographic location e.g. geographic locations of its headquarter or specialists . The detailed information may be retrieved from the live content server in response to the user selection. For example in response to the user selection the content presentation server may send a request to the live content server to obtain the detailed information of the Ad. The live content server in turn sends a request to the live connect server to obtain the current geographic locations of the associated specialists.

In addition according to one embodiment one or more live connect buttons are displayed for the selected live Ad. In this example the visitor can click a live connect button to initiate a chat session with an available specialist or click a live connect button to initiate a voice conversation with an available specialist. Note that the live connect buttons may only be displayed or enabled if there is at least one specialist available for that particular communication method e.g. SMS or voice call . Otherwise the corresponding live connect button may not be displayed or enabled. In one embodiment some Ads may be defined to allow for either a voice communication or a chat communication typically both will not be utilized together. This is defined by the business in which the Ad is displayed for.

In response to the activation of a live connect button the visitor may be prompted for further user information as shown in . Referring to the visitor is prompted via a dialog box to enter contact information of the visitor such as its phone number and address that a service will be performed. The user information is then transmitted to the live connect server in response to the send button in dialog box . The send button may include underlying executable code that in response to the activation of the send button sends the user information to the live connect server. The live connect server then selects and distributes the user information to one of the available specialist to allow the selected specialist to contact the visitor for a live conversation. Note that the Ads displayed in may be received directly from the live content server or alternatively from content presentation server .

According to one embodiment in order for an SME to provide live support services to a visitor or customer of live content the SME has to register with live connect server and or live content server . The registration of the SMEs can be done via a registration interface of live connect server and or live content server . In one embodiment an administrator of an Ad owner or a company that provides products and or services being advertised can set up and configure one or more SME for an Ad campaign. As described above and shown in a service or product provider can have multiple Ad campaigns and an SME can be associated with one or more Ad campaigns.

In one embodiment an administrator can specify the specialists for each Ad campaign including the contact information of the specialists in a specialist database such as SME or agent database as shown in . Each of the specialists has to install a specialist mobile application onto its mobile device and log into the live connect server from the mobile application in order to communicate with the live connect server such as registration receiving notification setting status of the specialist etc.

According to one embodiment during the registration of the SMEs an administrator sends emails or other applicable notifications with registration instructions to mobile devices of the SMEs to invite them to participate in live connect Ad campaign. Registration instructions may include a registration token or code dynamically generated for secure authorization purposes. In response to the notification an SME may download a mobile application for the live connect Ad service and install in the SME device. For example the registration instructions received by the specialist may include a link to download the mobile application from a remote server specified in the link. The SME device may send registration notice via the mobile application to the live connect server to authorize a request to participate in the live connect Ad campaign. The registration notice may include registration token or code previously received by the specialist. In one embodiment in response to an approval of an administrator the administrator may send an approval message to the SME device to approve participation of the specialist for example via the mobile application to the live connect Ad campaign or service. Thereafter the SME can indicate whether he she is available by changing the status through the mobile application where the status is stored as part of SME or agent database as shown in .

According to one embodiment the status of the SMEs can be utilized by live connect routing module to determine whether an incoming contact request should be routed to the respective SME. For example a request may only be routed to an SME that has an available status. The live connect routing module can automatically select and route an incoming request to any of the available SMEs. An SME can accept or deny an incoming request through its mobile application. If none of the SMEs is available or willing to accept an incoming request the live connect routing module can route the request to a predetermined or preconfigured overflow SME dispatch person or a manager administrator such that the visitor will be guaranteed to talk to a live person.

From the GUI page of the SME can accept the job offer by directly clicking a button to contact the customer in this example a call now button which may lead to the GUI page as shown in . In addition the SME can clicks the view detail button which the GUI displays the detailed information of the job offer as shown in . The detailed information may include the name of the potential customer brief description of the job contact information in this example a phone number and an address of the potential customer. From the detailed information page the SME can also decline or accept the job offer by clicking the respective buttons. In one embodiment if the SME accepts the job offer the application may automatically set the status of the SME as unavailable as shown in which will be transmitted back to the live connect server and stored in the SME or agent database therein. The rationale behind it is that since the SME has accepted one job it may take a while to complete the job and the SME is not able to accept another job. From the GUI page as shown in the SME can click the contact information in this example a phone number to directly contact the customer. The SME can also click on the address to view geographic location of the job site for example before accepting the job.

According to one embodiment a job offer may be received from a dispatch or administrator instead of automatic routing by the routing module as shown in . In this embodiment a visitor may directly click the phone number shown in a live Ad which is routed to a dispatch person or an administrator s device. The dispatcher can talk to the customer and then select and route a job offer to a selected SME as shown in . Similar to the situation as shown in the selected SME can decline the job offer as shown in or view the details of the job as shown in . An SME can also set its status via the client application as shown in where the updated status information will be transmitted from the client application back to the live connect server to be stored in the SME or agent database.

Referring now to in this example an incoming offer is received from a dispatcher. After the SME successfully logs into the live connect server the SME can set or change its status such as available status at block or unavailable status at block manually or automatically by the client application. For example an SME can configure the client application to set its status to available by default once the SME logs in. The SME s status is updated at the SME or agent database at the live connect server and seen by the dispatcher. As a result when an incoming query is received from the customer the dispatcher can assign the offer to an SME that becomes available. When the SME receives the dispatched message from a dispatcher at block the SME can contact the customer to negotiate a service contract and once the agreement is reached at block the SME can perform the job and its status is properly set. The SME can also decline the job at block after contacting the customer in which case the message is routed back to the dispatcher.

Referring to the GUI page represents dashboard as a home page. From the home page a user e.g. administrator can accesses a dispatch center from display area to manage and dispatch incoming or queued service requests received from the live Ads to proper SMEs that are available. The user can also access SME management system from display area for example for managing the SMEs and inviting new SMEs to participate a live Ad campaign.

In addition the administrator can display some or all of the users that are have been registered with the system. The users can be identified by searching based on a variety of categories such as group or Ad campaign name. If there is a new user that is pending for approval an approve button will be displayed next to the corresponding new user. For example if the administrator has sent e.g. email or text out an invite code to a new user via button after entering all of the contact information of the new user via button the new user may have received the invite code and registered with the system. That will require the final approval from the administrator after the administrator verifies the new user. The administrator can simply click the approve button to complete the registration of the new user. From the administrator can view the detailed contact information of the users status of the users recent activities of the users and market sector or geographic location of the users. The administrator can also select any one of the displayed users to display further detailed information of the selected user.

According to some embodiments the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of scenarios. For example in one scenario a visitor decides to research a jewelry company that can perform the custom creation of a ring. The visitor is not at home and decides to leverage a mobile device to start the research. A search portal system analyzes the visitor s search requests and provides optimized refined results to the visitor via the mobile device. The visitor while conducting the search is presented with a specialized Ad that presents the types of services the visitor is looking for. The visitor clicks on a Live Connect button of the Ad.

In response a live connect Ad system performs a query to identify a specialist slated to take personalized interactions. The system returns the name and location of an agent s who have been available for example for the longest period of time among currently available agents . The visitor is prompted via a browser to talk directly to the available agent e.g. represented via a name . Optionally if the visitor selects no via the browser when prompted with the named agent the visitor may be directed to generic advertisement related to general jewelry skill e.g. without live connect features . Alternatively if the visitor selects nothing via the browser when prompted the visitor may also be directed to generic advertisement. Other interactions may be possible.

If the visitor selects yes via the browser when prompted the visitor will be sent to the named specialist or agent . The visitor may be prompted to enter a number to be contacted at if none available . The system receives the information entered by the visitor and updates session record and processes the requests associated with the information entered.

For example the system may send a live connect connection notification to the selected specialist in response to receiving the information from the visitor. As the specialist receives the notification a screen pop up may be presented with the visitor data if available and results of an interview e.g. collected visitor data phone etc. . The specialist may accept the notification and is placed into an unavailable state for any new requests from a different visitor. The system may call the visitor on the number provided to connect the visitor with the specialist.

The visitor and the specialist may work through steps to complete the visitor requests. The visitor or the specialist may disconnect from the call. The specialist may direct the system to perform operations for wrapping up interactions between the visitor and the specialist. Subsequently the system may update records on interactions between the visitor and the specialist and closes the case.

In another scenario a visitor may decide to research a jewelry company that can perform the custom creation of a ring. The visitor is not at home and decides to leverage a mobile device to start the research. A search portal system may analyze the visitor s search requests to provide optimized and or refined results. The visitor while conducting the search may be presented e.g. via the mobile device with a specialized Ad that indicates the types of services the visitor is looking for. The visitor clicks on a Live Connect button included in the Ad.

The live connect Ad system or the system may collect the visitor s geo location if allowed by visitor and other information provided. A business rule engine in the live connect Ad system may apply business rules triggered by the visitor s Ad selection e.g. via the clicks and require pushing an interview on the visitor for more detailed information to get to the exact specialist to service the visitor based on an Ad campaign associated with the selected Ad 

In response the visitor may be presented with user interfaces for an interview via a mobile browser. The visitor may complete the interview to submit additional information to the system. The system may process information received via the interview to identify the exact specialist for the visitor. For example the system performs a query to identify specialists slated to take personalized interactions. The system can locate one or more specialists who are present and available. The system may return the name and location of a specialist s who have been available for the longest time period. The visitor is prompted via the browser to talk directly to the name specialist returned by the system. If the visitor selects no on the browser when prompted the visitor may be prompted by the system to request a callback for a different day time. If the visitor selects yes on the browser when prompted information of the visitor may be sent to the named specialist for live connections. Other operations in response to these interactions may be possible.

Subsequent to the selection of yes the visitor is prompted to enter a number to be contacted at if none available from visitor data . On receiving the number or other information from the visitor the system may update session record and process requests from the visitor. For example the system may reserve a specialist and send a notification to a device of the specialist. On receiving the notification the device of the specialist may present a screen pop up indicating the visitor data if available and results of the interview if available .

The specialist may accept the notification and is placed into an unavailable state for any new requests from a different visitor. The system can call e.g. phone call or message push the visitor on the number provided and establish live connections between the visitor and the specialist. The visitor and the specialist may work through steps to complete visitor requested services.

The visitor or specialist may disconnect from the live connections e.g. a phone call . The specialist may direct the system to perform operations for wrapping up interactions between the visitor and the specialist. Subsequently the system may update records on interactions between the visitor and the specialist and closes the case.

In another scenario a visitor decides to research a landscaping company that can perform custom landscaping designs. The visitor is at home and decides to leverage a mobile device or a desktop device to start their research. A search portal system analyzes the visitor s search requests and provides optimized refined results to the visitor via the mobile device. The visitor while conducting the search is presented with a specialized Ad that presents the types of services the visitor is looking for. The visitor clicks on a Live Connect button of the Ad.

The live connect Ad system or the system may collect the visitor s geo location if allowed by visitor and other information provided. A business rule engine in the live connect Ad system may apply business rules triggered by the visitor s Ad selection e.g. via the clicks and require pushing an interview on the visitor for more detailed information to get to the exact specialist to service the visitor based on an Ad campaign associated with the selected Ad 

In response the visitor may be presented with user interfaces for an interview via a mobile browser. The visitor may complete the interview to submit additional information to the system. Exemplary information solicited via the interview may include a contact number e.g. phone number visitor or customer name address of location where work is to be performed access to location open locked etc. security or safety settings for accessing to the location e.g. dogs to be aware of budget for work to be performed and or other applicable information.

The system may process information received via the interview to identify the exact specialist for the visitor. For example the system performs a query to identify specialists slated to take personalized interactions. The system can locate one or more specialists who are present and available. The system may return the name and location of a specialist s who have been available for the longest time period or based on other applicable analysis or selection criteria. The visitor is prompted via the browser to talk directly to the named specialist returned by the system. The visitor may select yes on the browser when prompted.

In response the system may reserve the specialist and send the specialist a notification. On receiving the notification the specialist may be presented with a screen pop up including data related to the visitor such as the visitor or customer name and the budget for the work to be performed. The system can call e.g. phone call or message push the visitor on the number provided and establish live connections between the visitor and the specialist. The visitor and the specialist may work through initial talks and decide that they need to meet at the residence.

The specialist may request that the visitor take a photo of the landscape area and submit to the specialist. The visitor may then take a photo to be submitted. The specialist may receive the photo as a part of the custom or visitor data via a mobile application. The visitor may click an accept or approve button via a mobile browser to allow the specialist to see the additional data address access pets etc. collected from the visitor.

The system may identify that the visitor is 5 minutes away from the job location and the specialist may be 20 minutes away from the job location e.g. based on geo location information tracked . The system may perform scheduling operations to provide both the visitor and the specialist with a note indicating that a meeting time of 30 minutes out is recommended. Accordingly the visitor may accept the recommended time via the mobile browser. The visitor may also issue permission via the mobile browser to allow the specialist to use GPS global position system information for navigation.

The specialist accepts from the mobile app the recommended time. The specialist changes job state via the system to in progress keeping the specialist unavailable from receiving a new notification from an Ad click by a new visitor if no specialist available Ad is not shown via search by visitors . The system creates a dynamic geo fence at the residence e.g. the job location of the visitor for notification upon arrival of the specialist. The specialist may be prompted to load GPS application to navigate to the residence. Either the visitor or the specialist may disconnect from the live communication e.g. a phone call .

On arrival of the specialist at the job location the system can identify or detect that the specialist has reached the residence based on the crossing of the geo fence placed around the residence. The system may send the visitor a notification e.g. via a web browser app SMS or other applicable messaging services related to the specialist such as credentials and a photo. The specialist and the visitor meet at the residence door and proceed to the back yard where the visitor would like to have the expected work done. The specialist proceeds to perform the work. When the work is completed the specialist may initiate wrap up operations of the interactions between the visitor and the specialist.

For example the system may update records on interactions. The visitor may be prompted by an application e.g. via embedded code delivered by a mobile browser to post comments to a social network about their experience with the specialist business. The visitor is very happy with experience and posts comments to Facebook Twitter and or other social network sites. The specialist may set the job state of the work to complete based on the business taxonomy defined in the ad campaign which makes them available for a new notification for another visitor ad click.

The system may perform follow on actions. For example the system can send notification to the visitor with a thank you note from the specialist business. The system may order and deliver quotes to the visitor for additional work. The system can create a case to kick off additional work to be done. Alternatively or additionally the system may perform scheduling operations to create a timed plan for the work order.

In a further scenario a visitor decides to see what are being played at local theaters. The visitor is mobile using a mobile device for the search. A search portal system analyzes the visitor s search requests and provides optimized refined results to the visitor via the mobile device. The visitor while conducting the search is presented with a live connect Ad related to the search via an Ad system integrated with a live connect Ad system e.g. the system providing the live connect Ad.

The visitor wanting to see the play clicks on the live connect Ad. In response the system performs a query to identify a box office specialist present and available to take an interaction with the visitor. The system locates a specialist who is present and available. The system may return the name of the specialist who has been available longest or meets some analysis criteria e.g. including geo location matching .

The visitor may be prompted via the mobile browser to talk directly to the available specialist e.g. indicated by name . The visitor selects yes button via the mobile browser when prompted to proceed. The visitor may be further prompted to enter a number e.g. phone number or other applicable contact information to be contacted at if none available from visitor data .

On receiving the information provided by the visitor the system updates session records and processes the visitor s requests. The system can reserve a specialist and send a notification is sent to the specialist. A screen pop up with the visitor s data if available is presented to the specialist when the notification from the system is received. The system may initiate a call to the visitor based on the number provided to establish a live connection with the specialist.

The visitor and the specialist work through the ticket sale for play over the live connection. The system creates a dynamic geo fence at the plays venue or the theater . The visitor or specialist disconnects from the call. The visitor heads to the theater for the show.

Once the visitor is physically close to the theater the system detects triggering of the geo fence by the visitor s geo location which has been tracked or monitored. The system can generate geo events based on the triggering of the geo fence. The geo events may be forwarded to the theater s ticketing system to update inventory status of the tickets for the play.

For example the theater is updated with information about the visitor s arrival and flags that the seat will be occupied. The theater can track all sales and visitor arrivals such that if the visitors are not present within a specific time close to show time of the play the theatre can update the Ad to increase the discount in order to sell the seat for a higher yield by show.

After the play ends the visitor is prompted by a client application e.g. based on embedded code delivered via a mobile browser to post comments to a social network about the play and their experience with the theater s ad service. The visitor is very happy with experience and posts comments to Facebook Twitter and or other social network sites.

In some embodiments a visitor selects a live connect Ad directed to a named specialist. Data analysis may be performed to identify a best route to provide requested service to the visitor. Business rules may be leveraged for soliciting additional data entered or volunteered by the visitor. The data analysis may be based on various data including geo locations of the visitor and available specialists. Pre qualification information may be provided by the visitor via an interview mechanism for example to determine whether or which specialists are available to provide requested services.

Immediate live message communication e.g. based on short messaging service or live voice calls may be established via the visitor s selection. Multiple factors may be included in selecting which specialist and or which route for providing the service. The factors may include current geo locations of the visitor and available specialists business rules configured for specialist selection applicable schedules provided by the visitor for a face to face meeting with the specialists and or other applicable criteria. Directions may be automatically provided in real time for the authorized or selected specialist to travel for scheduled meeting with the visitor for providing the requested service. For example geo fencing capability may be enabled e.g. via business rules for visitor notifications triggered by arrival of the selected specialist near the job location. Specialist specific information may be pushed to the visitor upon arrival at the visitor location. Interfaces for a real time social feedback may be presented to the visitor via a live connected ad event regarding the specialist and business providing the requested service to the visitor.

As described above a live connect server may be integrated with or communicatively coupled to another server representing a support center to utilize the existing or advanced resources or infrastructure. is a block diagram illustrating a system for providing support services to products according to one embodiment of the invention. System can be implemented with a live connect server described above. Referring to system includes a mobile device of a user customer or individual communicatively coupled to service center over a network. The network may be any kind of networks such as a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet a local area network LAN or a combination of both. Mobile device may be any kind of mobile devices including but is not limited to a laptop mobile phone tablet media player personal digital assistant or PDA etc. Communication connections between devices can be established either by routing through the network or by direct initiation of calls from one end device to another by a mobile application communicating with a server who selects the target. For routed calls the network provides the state of the connection and hence the call state component of agent availability. For direct initiation some device environments provide for notification of call state and others do not. The Apple Facetime implementation in the iOS operating system for example allows video calls to be established by API but does not provide subsequent information about the call. In that case we deduce whether a call has been successful and when it ends from the behavior of the operating system. A timer is set when the FaceTime call is invoked by the application and examined when control is returned to the application. From the timer duration we determine whether the call was successful and when it ended. Note that throughout this application a mobile device is utilized as an example of a client device for the purposes of illustration only other devices such as a desktop or server may also be applied herein.

Service center may be implemented in a centralized facility or server with data processing hardware. Alternatively service center may be implemented in multiple facilities or servers in a distributed manner e.g. cloud based service platforms . Service center provides services to a variety of products or services from a variety of clients or vendors. For example service center may be a caller center handling a variety of support call services on products or services for a variety of goods and service providers. A client may be a manufacturer a distributor a retailer a service provider or broker a purchasing facility e.g. Amazon Expedia or ISIS or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment service center includes one or more service application programming interfaces APIs to communicate over a network with other systems such as mobile device client s site social communities contact center including agents or experts client backend systems manufacturer backend systems eCommerce sites and other auxiliary systems e.g. billing system . Service center can handle service requests from customers of multiple clients. For example service center may handle customer service requests for a number of retail sales companies sales post sales calls for catalog sales companies and patient follow up contacts for health care providers. In such a structure the service center may receive service requests directly from the customers or through client support management systems.

In one embodiment service center further includes community service system support services system route sequence manager and data warehouse . Support services system is responsible for handling support services requests from the users including identifying and registering a product creating an transaction case context selecting and assigning a customer representative also referred to herein as an agent specialist or expert to provide support services to the users and managing work flows etc. An agent may be selected based on a skill set or expertise of the agent in a skill as well as other factors such as geographic location of the agent. The term agent specialist or expert refers to a service center personnel or a computerized application in some cases that respond to customer requests. An agent may be locally situated at the service center or remotely situated over a network. Throughout this application the terms of agent specialist and expert are interchangeable terms dependent upon the circumstances. In most cases the term of agent collectively refers to a customer representative a support agent a support specialist a support expert or a combination thereof which may be a service center personnel and or a computerized application.

In one embodiment integrated service API A may be utilized by certain integrated service providers such as payment services dispatch services location services tracking and delivering services short messaging services SMS social networking and blogging services e.g. Twitter and customer relationship management CRM services e.g. Salesforce etc. Automated service API C may be utilized by AI Artificial Intelligence services BOT services automated services like roBOT that mimic the actions or activity of a human processes or activities making the user think they are talking to a live person frequently asked question FAQ services survey services eLearning services etc. Partner service API D may be utilized by certain partner entities of the support center such as social knowledge multi channel communication system and social CRM e.g. Lithium etc.

In one embodiment support service API B can be utilized by customer to reach the support center. Support service API B may be utilized for example via a one touch application launched from a mobile device to register a user register a product access knowledgebase e.g. KBs A B and obtain a support service from an agent AI BOT service etc. Initially when a customer downloads and installs a one touch application on its mobile device the customer can access support center via support service API B to create a user account which may be performed by registration module . Subsequently the customer may also log into the account via support service API B which may be authenticated by security module to register a product and or to retrieve a list of registered one or more products that have been registered with support center using certain techniques described above.

When there is a need to contact support center on a product the customer can activate the one touch application from its mobile device or press a one touch button from a Web site which will access and log into support center via support service API B where the customer and or the mobile device can be authenticated by security module . In addition case management module is configured to create a unique case ID that uniquely identifies the instant support case. The case ID may be created based on a combination of at least some of the product identifiers e.g. serial number barcode quick response QR code high capacity color barcode HCCB code receipt transaction ID client information e.g. retailer ID manufacturer product ID customer information e.g. personal information username password mobile device ID and other information e.g. time date .

In one embodiment touch plan engine is configured to create a touch plan which is identified and tracked by the case ID. The touch plan may be created according to one or more business rules or templates of the client. The touch plan represents a roadmap an outline a tracking record or case context for the instant support case. The touch plan may also include or reference to other aiding information such as product information product intelligence information customer history data client information and manufacturer information etc. which may be retrieved and compiled from various informational sources such as customer database client database product database knowledgebase A B client and or manufacturer backend systems etc. The touch plan is then forwarded to an agent that has been assigned to the instant case to allow the agent to have all the necessary information to enable the agent to provide the best customer experience. The agent may be assigned based on a variety of factors such as skill set expertise demographic location language prior customer relationship etc.

Data warehouse includes but is not limited to self support KB B internal support KB A client database DB product database and customer database . Internal support KB A may store any support information or communications between an agent and a customer. Self support KB B contains published information extracted from other informational sources such as internal support KB A and other systems e.g. client backend systems and manufacturer backend systems . Self support KB B allows a customer to browse in an attempt to find a solution for the customer s problem hopefully without having to contact a live support agent. Client database may store any client related information including a client profile for each client supported by support center . For example client database may store client s preference of communication channels to be utilized between a customer and an agent. Client database may also contain membership information of the customers.

Product information store may store any user manual or technical manual of products. Product detailed information may further include complementary products and services availability etc. Such information may be drawn from external systems such as client s backend systems and or manufacturer s backend systems. Customer DB may store any customer related information such as personal information e.g. name address phone numbers sex age security credential device ID of its mobile device etc. Customer DB may store any product that has been registered by a customer. Customer DB may further store information regarding any interaction between a customer and an agent of previous support sessions such as topics detailed discussions time of the discussions contact mechanisms used reasons of the support products or services involved in the discussions last agent or expert the customer interacted with etc.

Other databases may also be included and utilized. For example an agent or expert database may be maintained for the purpose of selecting an appropriate agent or expert in response to a support service from a customer. An agent and expert information database may include a profile for each agent or expert respectively that includes individual agent or expert identifier individual name address communication device information personal information e.g. age sex hobbies physical condition spoken languages ethnicity geographic area of expertise etc. individual skills and or areas of expertise. The agent expert database may further include day s and time s during which and or areas in which the agent expert may be contacted to service customer contacts and or a number of times over a selected period in which the agent expert may be contacted to service customer contacts e.g. similar to presence information .

In addition a service statistics database may also be maintained. A service statistics database may represent any database that stores data related to the operation and management of the support center system . Data such as the number of customers in queue at a certain date and time the duration of support contact in queue the rate of contact abandonment and the use of communication resources are stored in the statistics database. Note that the databases and data stores are shown and described for the purposes of illustration only. These databases and data stores can be implemented or configured in a variety of configurations which may be implemented locally or remotely over a network. Note that some databases or data stores may be implemented as a single database or store or multiple databases or stores.

In one embodiment registration module is responsible for registering a customer and or a product of a customer where the customer s personal information or preferences may be stored in a customer profile store as part of customer DB while the registered product information may be stored in customer DB . For example when a customer installs a one touch application on its mobile device the customer typically performs an initial login to set up a user account including a username and or password as well as customer s preferences e.g. communication channel preferences . In one embodiment registration module can also be used to assist in registering a user for other accounts such as a loyalty account across one or more loyalty programs a rewards program etc. This information may be stored in customer DB . In addition a unique device ID such as a MAC address or IMSI code may be captured and stored in customer DB . As a result when the customer subsequently launches the one touch application the customer can be automatically authenticated by security module based on this information without requiring the customer to provide the same information again.

According to one embodiment when a one touch application is activated or launched from a mobile device by a user the one touch application is configured to communicate with service API . Service API invokes security module to authenticate the user based on the information e.g. MAC or IMSI transmitted from the one touch application without requiring the user to specifically provide user information.

Once the user has been authenticated according to one embodiment service API transmits a personalized page having a list of one or more products from a customer asset store not shown that have been registered to the user. The list of the registered products may be displayed on a display of the mobile device where each product is associated with one or more communication channels that are available for the user to contact an agent of the support center. In one embodiment the availability of the communication channels is determined based on the user preference obtained from customer DB and the client vendor preference from client database at that point in time. Such user preference and client vendor preference may be configured in a user profile and client vendor profile respectively which may be maintained by the support center.

In response to a selection of one or more of the available communication channels received at the service API according to one embodiment a unique case identification ID is instantly created by case management module to uniquely represent a current instant of the support case. In addition a touch plan is created by touch plan engine and tracked by the unique case ID where the touch plan represents a roadmap or outline of the corresponding support case activities to be performed throughout the life of the touch plan. The touch plan is updated regarding all activity of the user and is forwarded to an agent assigned to the current case and a communication session is established between the assigned agent and the user via the selected communication channel. Throughout the session the touch plan is updated on all activity between the user agent and their respective applications.

An agent may be selected based on a variety of considerations such as a skill set or expertise of the agent as well as whether the agent has previous experience with the same customer. The touch plan may include one or more references linked with all the information related to the current instant support service such as related product information client information customer information and support history with the customer etc. such that the agent can provide the best possible services to the customer. The touch plan may further include suggestion or prediction of products or services that the agent can provide the customer an alternative solution. The suggestion or prediction may be generated by a persuasive engine not shown based on the product information and the customer s interactive history etc. The interaction between the user and the agent is logged by a logging module not shown and tracked based on the touch plan and the unique case ID which may be stored in an interaction history database for example for subsequent analysis by an analysis module.

Processing logic associated with the touch plan e.g. touch plan engine case management module or some other logic also monitors for positive and negative activities from the user the agent and respective applications. If a negative event is occurring the processing logic can perform adjustments according to the touch plan in knowledge provided agent scripting spoken to the user and many others in a manner such to turn the interaction positive e.g. adapt to changing conditions and circumstances . If the activity is positive the processing logic can provide an additional activity in and around product or service upsell cross sell upgrades and product sales etc. The positive and negative activity monitoring and adjustments are not limited to a user and agent they can support any form of interaction even long running interactions that exceed the user activity for any period of time.

In some situations according to one embodiment of the invention the touch plan may include information that identifies a relationship between two products or services that have been purchased via a client e.g. purchasing house . When a first product service changes the support center may determine that a second product service may need to change as well based on the touch plan. Accordingly a proactive service module not shown is configured to proactively notify the user regarding the possible change of the second product service and offers support services for the second product service without requiring the user to initiate a support call. A suggestion or offer can be made to the customer by a persuasive engine based on the information obtained from databases of data warehouse .

According to one embodiment prior to contacting an agent a list of support options may be presented to the user including a link to a publication forum that may contain one or more solutions to a problem associated with the user. Such solutions may be generated by a publication module not shown by extracting certain information from knowledgebase from a variety of informational sources such as for example internal support KB A client vendor KB e.g. client database and client backend system manufacturer KB e.g. product database and manufacturer backend system online community KB and or customer interactive history KB etc. As a result a user may find a solution from the publication forum and does not need to contact an agent of the support center which in turn may lower the cost for the client and or the customer. This is also referred to as a call avoidance feature. Certain information from data warehouse may be queried and reported by a reporting module.

Note that components or modules shown in are described for the purpose of illustration only more or fewer components or modules may also be implemented. For example a customer satisfaction system CSAT may also be implemented within support center . A CSAT system provides a feedback form to a customer through a variety of communication channels at the completion of a request or a query made by the customer. The feedback form filled out and provided by customers is stored reviewed and analyzed by the CSAT system. All feedback forms stored in the CSAT system are used as a tool to conduct a customer service related survey. The feedback forms are further used to enhance the service provided by support center .

Referring back to in one embodiment community service system is responsible for communicating with social communities via an API for example to post a message received from a user and to route the responses received from social communities back to the user. Service center further includes other components such as a post market service system which is responsible for handling post market activities associated with the registered products including selling a registered product on eCommerce sites and arranging a disposal facility to dispose or recycle the product etc.

According to one embodiment in addition to registering a product with the service center a user can also register for example through the application running within a mobile device one or more social communities and or one or more eCommerce sites by storing the necessary credentials e.g. usernames and passwords of the servers hosting the social communities and eCommerce sites in a database e.g. user database of the service center where the database is associated with a user the mobile device. Subsequently the user can transmit a sales request to sell or dispose a registered product by specifying one or more of the eCommerce sites.

In response to the sales request post market service system of service center is configured to retrieve the necessary credentials for the specified one or more eCommerce sites and arrange the specified eCommerce sites for selling the product together with the associated credentials to allow the eCommerce sites to authenticate the user for the purpose of selling the product such that the user does not have to provide the necessary credentials at the point in time of the sales request and the user does not have to provide detailed information of the product to be posted on the eCommerce sites describing the product to be sold. A single sales request received from the mobile device can specify multiple eCommerce sites. The service center can also arrange a disposal facility to dispose e.g. recycle a registered product without having a user to specifically contact the disposal facility.

Some portions of the preceding detailed descriptions have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as those set forth in the claims below refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the invention also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. Such a computer program is stored in a non transitory computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable e.g. computer readable medium includes a machine e.g. a computer readable storage medium e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices .

The processes or methods depicted in the preceding figures may be performed by processing logic that comprises hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic etc. software e.g. embodied on a non transitory computer readable medium or a combination of both. Although the processes or methods are described above in terms of some sequential operations it should be appreciated that some of the operations described may be performed in a different order. Moreover some operations may be performed in parallel rather than sequentially.

Embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

