---

title: Method and system for performing a handover in a wireless broadband network
abstract: A method and system for performing a handover in a wireless broadband network is disclosed. The method comprises receiving, measurement reports from one or more User Equipment (UE) associated with a serving base station (BS); determining occurrence of one or more handover event types based on the one or more measurement reports; counting a number of occurrences of each of the one or more handover event types within a predefined period; determining a consistency count for each of the one or more handover event types based on the number of occurrences of the one or more handover event types; and performing a handover based on a comparison between the consistency count for each of the one or more handover event types and associated threshold consistency counts for the one or more handover event types.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510258&OS=09510258&RS=09510258
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09510258
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150904
---
This application claims the benefit of an Indian Patent Application Serial No. 3715 CHE 2015 filed Jul. 20 2015 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to wireless broadband networks and more particularly to a method and system for performing a handover in a wireless broadband network.

Handover HO is an integral procedure in cellular networks that guarantees users mobility across sectors of a base station and between base stations. One of the main input for HO is the measurement reports from the User Equipment UEs . Typical measurement reports may include the signal strengths of serving base stations and those of neighbor base stations. One of the main parameters of the UEs measurement report is the Reference Signal Received Power RSRP of the serving and configured neighbor base stations along with the reported HO events. A handover triggering mechanism may analyze the above parameters and decide whether to perform a handover or not.

With higher speed of movement of UEs there may be significant variations in the RSRP values reported by the UE over a period of time within few milliseconds . Existing HO detection mechanisms may not be able to take into consideration the higher variation of RSRP values as reported by UE in motion within the available short period of time for such determination causing unnecessary or frequent handovers failures leading to call drop. Also due to high speed movement of UEs most of the serving cells may fail to conclude on the HO decision within few milliseconds and during this time the UEs may move out of the serving cell coverage area with HO leading to call drop.

In one embodiment a method of performing a handover in a wireless broadband network is disclosed. The method comprises receiving one or more measurement reports from one or more User Equipment UE associated with a serving base station BS wherein the one or more measurement reports comprise Reference Signal Received Power RSRP values of the serving BS and one or more neighbor BSs determining occurrence of one or more handover event types based on the one or more measurement reports counting a number of occurrences of each of the one or more handover event types within a predefined period determining by a handover event analysis device a consistency count for each of the one or more handover event types based on the number of occurrences of the one or more handover event types and performing a handover based on a comparison between the consistency count for each of the one or more handover event types and associated threshold consistency counts for the one or more handover event types.

In another embodiment a handover event analysis device for performing a handover in a wireless broadband network is disclosed. The handover event analysis device comprises a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to receive one or more measurement reports from one or more User Equipment UE associated with a serving base station BS wherein the one or more measurement reports comprise Reference Signal Received Power RSRP values of the serving BS and one or more neighbor BSs determine occurrence of one or more handover event types based on the one or more measurement reports count a number of occurrences of each of the one or more handover event types within a predefined period determine a consistency count for each of the one or more handover event types based on the number of occurrences of the one or more handover event types and perform a handover based on a comparison between the consistency count for each of the one or more handover event types and associated threshold consistency counts for the one or more handover event types.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

An exemplary high level network depicting a wireless broadband network architecture in which various embodiments of the invention may function is illustrated in . Network may include but is not limited to cellular networks such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA third generation 3G network and Long Term Evolution LTE network. Mobile communication network may include one or more Base Stations BSs such as BSs and one or more Mobile Stations MSs such as MSs .

At a given point in time a MS may be in wireless communication with a single BS. In other words the MS may be served by a single BS. This BS is typically called the serving BS. The serving BS provides a link between the MS and the wider mobile network. For example in BS may be the serving BS for the MS and the MS . Similarly BS may be the serving BS for the MS . Each BS may be associated with a range wherein the range of a BS corresponds to the area to which the BS can transmit wireless signals. Thus each BS may be the serving BS for a number of MSs lying within the transmitting range of the BS.

When an MS moves from the serving area of one BS to the serving area of another BS a handover or handoff process may be initiated to provide an unbroken connection to the MS. A handover process typically involves transferring a call from a serving BS to one of the neighbor BSs depending on the direction of motion of the MS. For example if MS moves away from serving BS towards BS then BS may handover MS to BS . BS then becomes the serving BS for MS and provides the link between MS and the wider communication network.

In order to determine which neighbor BS to handover a MS to the serving BS maintains a neighbor list of all neighbors accessible to the MS and also the signal strength between the MS and each one of the neighbors accessible to the MS. A neighbor list is maintained by the serving BS for each MS being served by the serving BS. To populate the neighbor list the serving BS may instruct a MS currently being served by the serving BS to periodically report signal strength measurements between itself and each neighbor BS from which it receives a signal. This may be called neighbor reporting. In addition to reporting about its neighbors each MS may also report signal strength between itself and the current serving BS. Neighbor reporting usually involves each MS transmitting a measurement report comprising signal strength measurements between it and neighboring BSs from which the MS receives a signal. For example MS may be able to receive a signal from BS and BS based on the proximity between MS and each of BS and BS and may not receive a signal from BS BS BS and BS . Thus BS and BS may be considered neighbor BSs relative to MS . MS may report the signal strength between MS and each of BS and BS to current serving BS . Serving BS may use the measurement reports provided by MS to determine a potential neighbor to which MS is to be handed over.

The measurement reports provided by a MS to the serving BS may enable the serving BS to determine a direction of motion of the MS and accordingly a potential neighbor to which the MS is to be handed over. For example if MS moves from the serving area of BS towards BS the signal strength measurements between MS and each of BSs and may decrease while at the same time the signal strength measurements between MS and each of BSs and may increase. By analyzing these measurements BS may determine an appropriate neighbor to which the MS can be handed over and accordingly proceed with the handover.

A method of performing a handover in a wireless broadband network in accordance with some embodiments of the invention will now be explained with reference to . The method involves receiving by a handover event analysis device one or more measurement reports hereinafter referred as measurement reports from one or more User Equipment UE associated with a serving base station BS at step . The measurement reports may include Reference Signal Received Power RSRP values of the serving BS and one or more neighbor BSs. Receiving the measurement reports from the UEs is described in detail in conjunction with . On receiving the measurement reports from the UEs occurrence of one or more handover event types hereinafter referred as handover event types may be determined based on the one or more measurement reports at step . The handover event types may be associated with a standard governing the broadband network. For example in a third generation 3G network the occurrence of handover event types may be determined based on 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP specification. The handover event types may specify when and where a handover needs to be performed as per the 3GPP specification. For instance a first handover event type may be considered to have occurred if the RSRP value of the serving BS deteriorates to a value below a predefined threshold. A second handover event type may be considered to have occurred if a neighbor RSRP value becomes offset better than the RSRP value of the serving BS. Offset here means greater or lesser than some factor and is defined by the standard. Further a third handover event type may be considered to have occurred if a neighbor RSRP value becomes better than a threshold.

The number of times each of the handover event types occur in a predefined time period may be counted at step . The occurrence of the handover event types for each UE served by the serving BS may be counted. For those handover event types dependent of a neighbor RSRP value each neighbor in a neighbor list may be considered to determine if the handover event type has occurred. An event counter may be used to count the number of occurrences of the handover event types. For example a first counter may count the number of occurrences of the first handover event type a second counter may count the number of occurrences of the second handover type and so on.

At step a consistency count for each of the handover event types may be determined based on the number of occurrences of the one or more handover event types. The consistency count for a handover event type indicates the consistency with which that handover event type occurs over a period of time. In some embodiments the consistency count for a handover event type may be determined when number of occurrences of the handover event type crosses a predefined threshold. This may remove transient events which occur randomly from consideration. The consistency count for a first handover event type may be determined independent of the consistency count for a second handover event type. In keeping with the earlier example wherein the first handover event type involves the RSRP value of the serving BS deteriorating to a value below a predefined threshold the consistency count for this first handover event type may be incremented if the sum of the difference between a serving BS current RSRP value and serving BS previous RSRP value and an event type RSRP difference hysteresis is less than a predefined first handover event type RSRP difference threshold. That is 

Once the consistency counts are determined for each of the handover event types the consistency counts may be compared with predefined associated threshold consistency counts for the one or more handover event types. Each handover event type may be associated with a corresponding threshold consistency count. On comparing the consistency counts with the associated thresholds the severity of the handover may be determined. The severity in this case may indicate how quickly the UE needs to be handed over. For example 

Similarly the following actions may be performed based on the consistency counts of the handover event types.

If Event1 consistency countEvent2 consistency count th and Event3 consistency count Event3 consistency count th then a quick handover process may be started.

If Event1 consistency count Event1 consistency count th and Event2 consistency count Event2 consistency count th and Event3 consistency count

Thus a handover may be performed at step based on the comparison between the consistency count for each of the one or more handover event types and associated threshold consistency counts for the one or more handover event types. In order to perform the handover a target neighbor to which the UE is to be handed over may be determined. The target neighbor may be determined based on a neighbor weight N wt determined for each neighbor wherein the weight is based on the handover event types consistency counts.   Event1 consistency count alpha Event2 consistency count beta Event3 consistency count gamma where alpha beta and gamma are predefined weights associated with a first handover event type a second handover event type and a third handover event type respectively. The weights alpha beta and gamma indicate the importance or the significance assigned to the first event the second event and the third event when determining the overall weight for a neighbor.

On determining the N wt for each neighbor the neighbor having the highest N wt may be selected as the target neighbor to which the UE is to be handed over. In case two or more neighbors have the same weight then the target may be selected randomly from the two or more neighbors.

A handover event analysis device will now be explained in conjunction with . The handover event analysis device may comprise a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to processor . Memory may store processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to receive one or more measurement reports from one or more User Equipment UE associated with a serving base station BS . The one or more measurement reports hereinafter referred to as measurement reports comprise Reference Signal Received Power RSRP values of the serving BS and one or more neighbor BSs. Receiving the measurement reports from the UEs is described in detail in conjunction with . On receiving the measurement reports from the UEs processor may determine an occurrence of one or more handover event types hereinafter referred as handover event types based on the measurement reports. The handover event types may be associated with a standard governing the broadband network. For example in a third generation 3G network the occurrence of handover event types may be determined based on 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP specification. The handover event types may specify when and where a handover needs to be performed as per the 3GPP specification. For instance a first handover event type may be considered to have occurred if the RSRP value of the serving BS deteriorates to a value below a predefined threshold. A second handover event type may be considered to have occurred if a neighbor RSRP value becomes offset better than the RSRP value of the serving BS. Further a third handover event type may be considered to have occurred if a neighbor RSRP value becomes better than a threshold.

Processor may further count the number of times each of the handover event types occur in a predefined time period. The occurrence of the handover event types for each UE served by the serving BS may be counted. For those handover event types dependent of a neighbor RSRP value each neighbor in a neighbor list may be considered to determine if the handover event type has occurred. In some embodiments an event counter may be used to count the number of occurrences of the handover event types. On determining the number of occurrences of each handover event type processor may determine a consistency count for each of the handover event types based on the number of occurrences of the one or more handover event types. The consistency count for a handover event type indicates the consistency with which that handover event type occurs over a period of time. In some embodiments the consistency count for a handover event type may be determined when number of occurrences of the handover event type crosses a predefined threshold. Determining the consistency count for each of the handover event types is explained in detail in conjunction with .

Once the consistency counts are determined for each of the handover event types processor may compare the consistency counts with predefined associated threshold consistency counts for the one or more handover event types. Each handover event type may be associated with a corresponding threshold consistency count. On comparing the consistency counts with the associated thresholds the severity of the handover may be determined. The severity in this case may indicate how quickly the UE needs to be handed over. Based on the severity processor may perform one or more actions as explained in conjunction with .

Thus a handover may be performed based on the comparison between the consistency count for each of the one or more handover event types and associated threshold consistency counts for the one or more handover event types. In order to perform the handover processor may determine a target neighbor to which the UE is to be handed over. The target neighbor may be determined based on a neighbor weight N wt determined for each neighbor wherein the weight is based on the handover event types consistency counts.   Event1 consistency count alpha Event2 consistency count beta Event3 consistency count gamma where alpha beta and gamma are predefined weights associated with a first handover event type a second handover event type and a third handover event type respectively. The weights alpha beta and gamma indicate the importance or the significance assigned to the first event the second event and the third event when determining the overall weight for a neighbor.

On determining the N wt for each neighbor the neighbor having the highest N wt may be selected as the target neighbor to which the UE is to be handed over. In case two or more neighbors have the same weight then the target may be selected randomly from the two or more neighbors.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described a method and a system for performing a handover. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

