---

title: System and method for identifying a location of interest to be named by a user
abstract: A mobile communication device for identifying a location to be named comprising a position locator component configured to determine a location of a user and a communication interface component configured to provide the location for use in determining user-specific location information including at least one of a number of times and an amount of time the user is present at or near the location. The location naming component is configured to receive an identification of the location as a location of interest. The location naming component is configured to provide a prompt for naming the location of interest for presentation by a graphical user interface component. The location naming component is configured to receive name information for naming the location. The graphical user interface component is configured to present the name information for the location of interest on the mobile communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635511&OS=09635511&RS=09635511
owner: SCENERA MOBILE TECHNOLOGIES, LLC
number: 09635511
owner_city: Portsmouth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150109
---
The present invention is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 041 518 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IDENTIFYING A LOCATION OF INTEREST TO BE NAMED BY A USER which is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 798 410 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IDENTIFYING A LOCATION OF INTEREST TO BE NAMED BY A USER which is a continuation of Ser. No. 11 469 124 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IDENTIFYING A LOCATION OF INTEREST TO BE NAMED BY A USER which is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 425 650 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A DESCRIPTOR FOR A LOCATION TO A RECIPIENT and to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 425 623 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR NAMING A LOCATION BASED ON USER SPECIFIC INFORMATION both filed on Jun. 21 2006 and assigned to the assignee of the present application all of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Handheld electronic devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs mobile phones digital cameras and the like offer mobility and a variety of services to their respective users. They are typically configured to transmit and receive data to and from other devices via a wired or wireless connection. Most mobile phones for example can provide Internet access maintain a personal address book provide messaging capabilities capture digital images as well as place phone calls.

Many devices in particular mobile phones can identify their respective locations within a certain range depending on the device and location identifying technique. Some devices can use a sophisticated position determining system such as a Global Positioning System GPS . The GPS is a satellite based radio navigation system that uses signals from three or four satellites to compute the current latitude longitude and elevation of a GPS receiver in the device anywhere on earth down to within a few meters. Other devices can use a location identifying technique based on which base station is servicing the device that is the location of the device is within a range of the base station from which a call is made. Other devices can use location identifying techniques based on triangulation between the device and at least two base stations.

The device s location typically represented by geospatial coordinates can be used in a variety of ways. For example geographical information systems GISs exist that map geospatial coordinates to street addresses or location names. The street address or name corresponding to the geospatial coordinates can be associated with an image captured by the device at the location and stored as metadata. The metadata can then be used to categorize the image or to remind the user of the location of where the image was captured.

Alternatively or in addition the user can associate other information with a location. The other information can be a description of or a personalized name for the location. For example the user can provide a name of a location based on a favorite store e.g. Charbucks at or near that location or based on a description of an event e.g. caf where I had lunch with Sally. In this manner the location name can be personalized and relevant to the user.

Typically the user can provide a name of a location when the user captures an image or visits the location. Nevertheless unless the user is prompted to name the location the user can easily forget or be too distracted to provide a name at the time the picture is taken or at the time of the visit. If the user attempts to name the location later he may have problems remembering the location and even if the user remembers the location he may have difficulties specifying it accurately to the device so that it can be used as metadata. On the other hand if the device prompts the user to name a location every time an image is captured or at every location visited the user can easily be overwhelmed with prompts to name locations that are of no interest to the user.

Accordingly an apparatus and method for identifying a location of interest for a user to name are described. According to one exemplary embodiment the apparatus includes a monitoring module configured to monitor actions taken by a user via a mobile communication device and to monitor a location of the mobile communication device when an action is taken by the user and at predetermined time intervals and a data store for storing user specific location information and user specific action information associated with the location monitored by the monitoring module. The apparatus also includes a location naming module. According to aspects of one embodiment the location naming module is configured to calculate a relevance rating of the location based on the user specific action information associated with the location and on the user specific location information and to prompt the user to name the location based on its relevance rating.

According to another exemplary embodiment a method of identifying a location to be named includes monitoring actions taken by a user via a mobile communication device and a location of the mobile communication device when an action is taken by the user and at predetermined time intervals and storing user specific location information and user specific action information associated with the location monitored in a data store. The method further includes determining a relevance rating of the location based on the user specific location information and user specific action information associated with the location and prompting the user to provide a name for the location based on the relevance rating.

Various aspects will now be described in connection with exemplary embodiments including certain aspects described in terms of sequences of actions that can be performed by elements of a computing device or system. For example it will be recognized that in each of the embodiments at least some of the various actions can be performed by specialized circuits or circuitry e.g. discrete and or integrated logic gates interconnected to perform a specialized function by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Thus the various aspects can be embodied in many different forms and all such forms are contemplated to be within the scope of what is described.

According to an exemplary embodiment a location of potential interest to a user of a mobile communication device is identified based on the user s presence at or near the location and a history of actions performed or taken by the user using the device at or near the location. Actions performed by the user can include interactions with other users using the device. The user s presence at or near the location can be quantified by the number of times the user visits the location and the amount of time the user spends at or near the location. For example a location may be one of interest if the user is moving in a certain direction and stops for a while or backs up and moves in or around the location. Likewise if the user stops and spends an amount of time at or near the location e.g. as in a store or in a restaurant the location may be of interest.

The history of actions and interactions at or near a location can also be indicative of the location s relevance to the user. For example if the user has stopped and taken an action e.g. captured pictures at or near the location on previous occasions then the likelihood that the location is one of relative importance increases. Similarly if the user has initiated several interactions e.g. phone calls at or near the location the relative importance of the location can increase.

According to one embodiment a location s relevance can be based on the number of times the user performs an action e.g. captures an image or an interaction with another user e.g. initiates a phone call or sends a text message using the mobile communication device and on the number of times the user has visited the location and the amount of time the user has spent in the location during a predetermined time interval. The user is then prompted to name those locations that are of highest potential relevance to the user. In this manner the user is not prompted to name every location visited by the user or every location where the user has performed an action interaction.

According to one embodiment the user is prompted to name a location at or near the time the location is identified as one of potential interest so that the user can provide an appropriate name. According to an exemplary embodiment the prompt can include a message that describes the location based on when the user was last at or near the location and what actions interactions were taken at or near the location such that the user can decide whether the location is in fact one of interest and deserving of a name. The user can be prompted while the user is using the mobile communication device or within a period of time after the user has performed an action interaction using the device. When the user provides a name for a location the name can then be associated with the location and stored so that the name can be retrieved when the user returns to the location.

According to an exemplary embodiment the system includes means for monitoring actions taken by a user and via a mobile communication device and for monitoring a location of the mobile communication device when an action is taken by the user and at predetermined time intervals such as a monitoring module that is in communication with the devices and with the location naming server over the network . In an exemplary embodiment the monitoring module is configured to collect information relating to a user s presence at or near a location and a history of actions including interactions by the user using the device at or near the location. The system further includes means for storing user specific location information and user specific action information associated with the location monitored by the monitoring module such as the monitoring module which is configured to store and manage the collected information in a data store .

The monitoring module can be a personal computer or other device capable of collecting storing and managing data. The monitoring module can include a communication interface not shown to receive and transmit data over the network . In one embodiment the monitoring module monitors actions taken by the user using the mobile communication device and monitors the location of the device when actions are taken by the user and at predetermined time intervals. In one embodiment the monitoring module is configured to collect and maintain user specific action information that includes the number of times the user performs an action and or interaction using the device at or near the location during a first predetermined time interval e.g. one 1 hour. Predetermined time intervals such as the first predetermined time interval can include a time period over which the relevance of a location is determined. Such time intervals can be configured by an administrator or user of the system or be set as a default in the various components of the system that determines the relevance of a location. In addition the monitoring module is configured to collect and maintain user specific location information that includes short term presence information including the number of times the user is present at or near the location during the first predetermined time interval and or the amount of time the user is present at or near the location during the first predetermined time interval. The user specific location information and the user specific action information are stored in the data store .

The location naming server can be a personal computer or other device capable of processing data. The location naming server includes a communication interface to transmit and receive data over the network . In one embodiment the location naming server is configured to retrieve user specific information from the data store over the network via the monitoring module .

The system further includes means for prompting the user to name the location based on the user specific action information associated with the location and on the user specific location information. For example according to an exemplary embodiment the location naming server includes a location naming module which is communicatively coupled to the communication interface . The location naming module is configured to determine a relevance rating of a location based on the user specific action information associated with the location and on the user specific location information. In one embodiment the location naming module prompts the user to name the location based on its relevance rating.

The system illustrated in and is but one exemplary arrangement. In this arrangement a thin mobile communication device can be accommodated because the user specific location information and action information can be stored remotely and the functionality of the monitoring module and the location naming module can be included in separate servers. Other arrangements can be designed by those skilled in the art. For example in one embodiment shown in the functionality of the monitoring module and the data store can be included in the location naming server so that the location naming server securely manages the user specific information .

In another embodiment shown in the mobile communication device can perform the functions of the location naming module and the monitoring module and store the user specific information internally in the device memory not shown . In this arrangement the location naming server is not required. Variations of these embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example the functionality of monitoring module can be integrated with that of the mobile communication device and can be configured to transmit the user specific location information and user specific action information to the location naming module which stores and manages the information in the data store . In this example the location naming module instead of the monitoring module can manage the information in the data store .

In one embodiment the monitoring module monitors the device s location and collects the user specific location information by querying the position locator system in the device at a fixed time interval. For example the monitoring module can collect the user specific location information every 30 seconds. In another embodiment the monitoring module can collect the information at a time interval proportional to a velocity of the mobile communication device . For example the time interval can be the 80 divided by the device s velocity. The monitoring module can monitor the user s actions and collect the user specific action information by querying the position locator system in the device when the user performs an action e.g. takes a picture or initiates an interaction e.g. makes a call or sends a message.

According to an exemplary embodiment the monitoring module monitors the user s actions and keeps track of the number of times the user performs an action and or interaction using the device at or near the location during a first predetermined time interval e.g. one 1 hour. In addition the monitoring module monitors the device s position and keeps track of the number of times the user is present at or near the location during the first predetermined time interval and or the amount of time the user is present at or near the location during the first predetermined time interval. This information referred to above as the user specific action information and user specific location information respectively is stored in the data store block .

According to an exemplary embodiment a relevance calculation module in the location naming module shown in determines a relevance rating for the location based on the user specific location information and the user specific action information associated with the location block . According to an exemplary embodiment the relevance calculation module or perhaps the location naming module itself can maintain a dynamic list of potentially relevant locations based on the relevance rating for which the user exhibits nonzero short term presence over the first predetermined interval. With such an arrangement the user specific location information including the user s short term presence information can be updated at predetermined intervals e.g. every 30 seconds and the user specific action information can be updated whenever an action or interaction using the device takes place.

Once the information is retrieved the relevance calculation module can determine a significance factor of the location block . In one embodiment the significance factor increases as the user specific location information increases and as the user specific action information increases. Accordingly the significance factor of a location increases as the number of times the user is present at or near the location during the first predetermined time interval and or as the amount of time the user is present at or near the location increases. In addition the significance factor increases as the number of times the user performs an action and or interaction with another user using the device at or near the location during the first predetermined time interval increases.

In one embodiment the significance factor can be a weighted calculation based on the user specific location information and the user specific action information . In this embodiment a highest weight can be applied to the number of actions performed e.g. the number of image capture events and a lowest weighting to the user specific location information i.e. the number of times and or the amount of time the user is present at or near the location during the first predetermined time interval N . For example the user specific action information can be split into its subcomponents corresponding to the number of actions N and the number of interactions N and the significance factor S of the location can be determined by the following weighted sum 20 5 1 Equation 1 

In this embodiment the higher weighting for the number of actions reflects an assumption that when actions are taken at a particular location the probability that the location is interesting to the user is high. Similarly the lowest weighting for the location information reflects the assumption that the user s presence at or near a location is not necessarily indicative of the location s relevance to the user . In other embodiments the weighting can be adjusted to reflect different assumptions regarding the user s behavior.

According to one embodiment the location s relevance rating can be calculated based on the significance factor alone block . In one embodiment the relevance rating is directly proportional to the significance factor i.e. it increases as the significance factor of the location increases.

According to another embodiment the location relevance rating can be affected by other factors such as a user s long term presence information and the amount of time that has passed since the user s last visit to the location. In one embodiment the relevance calculation module can determine a time lapse between the current time and the last time the user was present at or near the location block and retrieve the number of times the user was present at or near the location during a second predetermined time interval that is greater than the first predetermined time interval block . In one embodiment the second predetermined time interval can be a long term period relative to the first predetermined time interval which is a short term period. For example the long term period can be one 1 month or one 1 year while the short term period can be one 1 hour.

According to this embodiment the relevance rating of the location can be calculated from the significance factor the time lapse t and or the long term information N block . In one embodiment the relevance rating is directly proportional to the significance factor and inversely proportional to the time lapse and to the long term presence information. That is the relevance rating decreases as either or both of the time lapse and the long term presence information increases. In one embodiment the relevance rating R can be calculated using the following equation 1 log 2 Equation 2 

The inverse relationship reflects the assumption that as the amount of time increases between the current time and the last time the user was present at or near the location the relevancy of the location to the user decreases. Similarly as the number of times the user is present at or near the location over a long term period increases the more likely that the location is a routine destination and not one of particular interest to the user .

Referring again to once the relevance rating of the location is determined block the location naming module determines based on the relevance rating whether to prompt the user to provide a name for the location block . In one embodiment the location naming module compares the relevance rating of the location to a threshold value and if the relevance rating is greater than or equal to the threshold value the user will be prompted. For example if the relevance rating is based on the significance factor only and the significance factor is calculated according to the weighting in Equation 1 above then when the threshold value is set at 10 a single action weighted at 20 or two 2 interactions or 10 presence observations will result in the relevance rating exceeding the threshold.

If the location naming module determines that the user should not be prompted to name the location block because for example the relevance rating does not exceed the threshold value the process returns to the monitoring the user s actions and the device s location block . Otherwise the location naming module determines that the user should be prompted to name the location. In one embodiment the location naming module first determines whether the user is available to receive the prompt block . In one embodiment the user is available when she is actively using the mobile communication device or has recently used the device within a specified time period e.g. 10 seconds. In one embodiment the location naming module can call the monitoring module to make this determination. If the user is using or has recently used the device e.g. taking pictures or sending messages to others the location naming module can send a message to the user during use or immediately after the user has stopped actively using the device block . Otherwise the location naming module can wait until the user is available block .

In an exemplary embodiment the message describes the location based on the user s most recent actions at or near the location and or a time when the user was last present at or near the location and prompts the user to name the location. In one embodiment the location naming module can call a message generator shown in to compose the message. is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary process for composing the message according to one embodiment. The message generator identifies the location to be named based on the relevance rating block and then determines the user s last action and or interaction at or near the location block . In one embodiment the message generator retrieves the user specific action information from the data store directly using the data manager or via the monitoring module . The message generator then determines a time lapse between the current time and the last time the user was present at or near the location block . In addition the message generator can also retrieve general geospatial information from the network to describe the location.

After collecting this information the message generator generates the message based on at least one of the action and interaction information and the time lapse block . In one embodiment the message generator is configured to generate messages that are meaningful to the user . For example the following are exemplary messages 

In an exemplary embodiment the message can be generated using a template that is completed according to the information retrieved. For example if the user performed an action interaction at the location and the location is the latest position where the specified type of action was performed by the user then a description can be generated by filling a template as follows 

In another embodiment the message generator can use a time template to generate the message. For example the following guidelines can be implemented 

If the user has performed several actions or participated in interactions at or near the location the message generator can generate a message that summarizes the actions. In one embodiment the time descriptor can cover a time period so that the description sounds natural. For example 

Referring again to after the location naming module generates the message it sends it to the mobile communication device associated with the user block . In one embodiment the message can prompt the user to name two or more locations when more than one location satisfies the criteria for prompting. In this embodiment the location naming module can generate a list where the locations are ordered according to their respective relevance ratings and send the list in the message to the device . In another embodiment the message can prompt the user to name the location with the highest relevance rating.

In one embodiment the device receives the message via the communication interface and the message is displayed to the user on the device s user interface . The user can provide a name for the location. In one embodiment the user can utilize the system and method described in co pending patent application Ser. No. 11 425 623 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR NAMING A LOCATION BASED ON USER SPECIFIC INFORMATION filed Jun. 21 2006 and assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Here a name generation module automatically provides a name of a location based on an atemporal correlation between general information and user specific information relating to the location. Because the name for the location is based on user specific information the name can be meaningful to the user. The user is not required to think of and to enter a name for each location which can be tedious when several locations need to be named and when the most appropriate name might not be readily apparent to the user. Once the name has been provided the user can send the name and location back to the location naming module via the communication interface .

According to an exemplary embodiment the location naming module receives the name over the network via the communication interface and associates the name with the location block . The name and the location are then stored in the data store block so that the name can be retrieved when the user returns to the location or when the user wishes to share the name with another user. For example the name for the location can be shared with another user via the system and method described in co pending patent application Ser. No. 11 425 650 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A DESCRIPTOR FOR A LOCATION TO A RECIPIENT assigned to the assignee of the present and filed Jun. 21 2006.

The executable instructions of a computer program as illustrated in and can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions.

As used here a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium.

More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium can include the following a wired network connection and associated transmission medium such as an ETHERNET transmission system a wireless network connection and associated transmission medium such as an IEEE 802.11 a b or g or a BLUETOOTH transmission system a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN the Internet an intranet a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc CD a portable digital video disc DVD and the like.

It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the concepts and techniques described here can be embodied in various specific forms without departing from the essential characteristics thereof. The presently disclosed embodiments are considered in all respects to be illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is indicated by the appended claims rather than the foregoing description and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalence thereof are intended to be embraced.

