---

title: Provisioning dedicated network resources with API services
abstract: Embodiments are disclosed that provision a cloud-based service together with a dedicated network connection to provision a cloud-based service element. In response to the request both the cloud-based service element and a dedicated network connection are provisioned. Provisioning the cloud-based service element together with the dedicated network connection enables the cloud-based service element to utilize the dedicated network connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491066&OS=09491066&RS=09491066
owner: LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS, LLC
number: 09491066
owner_city: Broomfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151120
---
Many applications such as data storage processing and presentation applications utilize a communication network in their operation. Some applications sometimes referred to as cloud based applications run remotely and are only accessible via the communication network. These applications may for example be hosted from a data center. A data center is a facility used to house computer systems and associated components such as servers telecommunications and storage systems.

Cloud based applications may be beneficial in that they allow resources to be shared among users. A user may avoid the need to purchase the underlying hardware and software for an application instead paying a usage fee perhaps by the hour. Taking advantage of economies of scale cloud based applications may be available at a lower cost than buying a software license and any underlying hardware outright.

Network users may interact with the cloud based applications via application programming interfaces APIs . An API provides a specified way of interacting with the application. An API may be implemented for example using Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or Representational State Transfer REST .

To connect to the cloud based application the Internet may be used. However it is desirable for many users to have dedicated connections to the cloud based application. A dedicated connection may provide inure secure and reliable access to the cloud based application. However setting up the dedicated network connection may be cumbersome.

In an embodiment a computer implemented method provides a cloud based service. The method includes receiving a request from a user to provision a cloud based service element. In response to the user request the method provisions a cloud based service element. The cloud based service element provides an application service from a data center where the web service is accessible using an application program interface via a network. The method also provisions a dedicated network connection on the network connected to the data center. The dedicated network connection connects the data center to another location geographically disparate from the data center and reserves network resources on the network between the data center and the other location to be used by the cloud based service element. Provisioning the cloud based service element together with the dedicated network connection enables the cloud based service element to utilize the dedicated network connection.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to accompanying drawings.

The drawing in which an element first appears is typically indicated by the leftmost digit or digits in the corresponding reference number. In the drawings like reference numbers may indicate identical or functionally similar elements.

As mentioned above cloud based applications are desirable because they enable users to share resources. But to access the cloud based applications users may require connectivity. Provisioning the network connection separately from the cloud based application may be cumbersome. Embodiments involve provisioning the network connection together with the cloud based application. By bundling the network connectivity with the cloud based services embodiments may simplify usage of cloud based services.

The Detailed Description that follows is divided into three sections. The first section describes with respect to a system for providing dedicated connection among cloud servers or users. The second section describes with respect to modules of a system that enable providing dedicated connection among cloud servers and users. The third section describes with respect to a method for setting up a connection from a user to a cloud server.

Cloud marketplace server provides users the ability to purchase the cloud services. It includes an interface for the users to select the applications they need. It further provisions network resources for connecting users to the servers that provide the cloud applications. Cloud marketplace server is connected to the switching devices in network and is capable of configuring the devices to provide the required connections.

The required connection may for example be a dedicated network connection. A dedicated network connection is a connection with bandwidth reserved for a particular user. A dedicated network connection may be set up using either a private or public network service technology. In other words no other user of the network can have access to the bandwidth reserved for a particular user on a dedicated connection. Reserving bandwidth may involve associating a particular bandwidth with a user. While still reserving bandwidth a network may be oversubscribed meaning that if all users were using all their associated bandwidth the network would have insufficient capacity. Such a dedicated network connection may be point to point in which the connection connects two points on the network. Also the connection may be multipoint to multipoint in which a set of one or more points on the network is connected to a second set of one or more network points. Additionally the connection may be point to multipoint in which a point on the network is connected to a set of one or more network points. A switching device may receive traffic for a particular network connection on a particular port.

In an example network may utilize an Ethernet protocol. In that example the connection may be an Ethernet E Line or E LAN. E Line and E LAN are data services defined by the Metro Ethernet Forum that provide point to point and multipoint to multipoint Ethernet connections between a pair or plurality of user network interfaces.

Using a dedicated network connection on a network such as a private or shared network may provide more capacity reliably and security than merely connecting via the Internet.

Network is connected to two data centers data center and data center . Data center is connected to network through a switching device and data center is connected to the network through a switching device . Data centers and are each facilities used to house computer systems and associated components such as their own network infrastructures. They may include redundant or backup power supplies redundant data communications connections environmental controls e.g. air conditioning and fire suppression and security devices.

Data center includes a cloud server . Cloud server is a machine that runs a cloud application. It provides cloud based services or applications to users. Cloud server may provide such a service after receiving a request from a user to provision a cloud based service element. A cloud based service element can be an application such as a database or a web application. Cloud servers and are in data centers and respectively and can be geographically apart.

In an embodiment a user can using cloud marketplace server purchase the dedicated network connection together with the cloud based service element. In response to the purchase request cloud marketplace server communicates with cloud servers and to provision the cloud based service and communicate with network to provision the dedicated network connection. Provisioning the cloud based service elements in cloud servers and together with the dedicated network connection among the cloud servers enables the cloud based service elements to communicate over a dedicated connection.

In an example use case a developer may use cloud based service connections to build a web based application. The web based application may have two components a web server and a database. Referring to the web server may be on cloud server and the database may be on cloud server . The developer may select the appropriate cloud based services and a network connection between the two servers from cloud marketplace server . In response to the request cloud marketplace server may send messages to cloud servers and to set up cloud based services and make them available to the developer. Also in response to the request the cloud marketplace server may send a message asking that network set up a network connection between data centers and which host the respective cloud servers and .

Network may provide a connection between switching devices and . Switching devices and reside at the edge of network and may provide entry into data centers and or even be co located in data centers and . However for data to reach cloud servers and additional routing may be required within data centers and . Configuring connections within data centers and is illustrated for example with respect .

In addition to provisioning connections in network cloud marketplace server may also be able to provision connections through infrastructure networks and . This enables the cloud marketplace server to set up a dedicated connection between cloud based service elements on the cloud servers. Such a dedicated connection includes a dedicated network connection over infrastructures and within data centers and respectively. In this way cloud marketplace server may also bundle cloud services with network connectivity services within the respective data centers.

The example in shows a network connection between two different data centers. However the dedicated network connection may also be between a data center and enterprise as illustrated in .

As above in response to a user s request cloud marketplace server provisions both a cloud service and a dedicated network connection between switching devices and . However in system switching device resides on an enterprise . Enterprise may include for example an organization s internal network or LAN. In this embodiment a dedicated network connection is established between the enterprise and the cloud based service element.

In one example use case cloud server may provide customer relationship management CRM services. Those software services may for example be used by persons within enterprise to organize automate and synchronize sales marketing customer service and technical support. When a user requests the customer relationship management services from cloud marketplace server the user may also request a dedicated network connection to support those software services.

Providing the dedicated network services with the cloud services is described in greater detail with respect to .

Cloud marketplace server allows a user to request a cloud service. Cloud marketplace server includes a user interface module a network provisioning module a cloud provisioning module and a network topology module . The user may connect to cloud marketplace server though user interface module . Using this interface the user can select the cloud applications it requires. For example user interface module can receive a request from a user to provision a CRM service element or a relational database service element. User interface module may also allow a user to request a dedicated network connection.

The dedicated network connection may span over the network outside of a data center and the infrastructure network within the data center. The dedicated network connection connects the data center to another location that may be geographically disparate from the data center.

As described above network may utilize an Ethernet protocol and the network connection may be an Ethernet E Line.

To provide options to a user user interface module may interact with network topology module . The cloud based service element may be offered from a plurality of data centers in disparate locations. Network topology module may select based on a location of the user a data center in proximity of the user s location. Based on the selected data center s location network topology module may determine the topology of the dedicated network connection.

To determine the topology of the dedicated network connection network topology module may make API calls to network API server . Network API server may reply to the API calls using a network API handler module .

For example network topology module may ask network API server whether network connections are available that connect to the data centers offering the cloud based service element. Alternatively network topology module may periodically ask for the locations of all available data centers on the network and correlate those data centers with the data centers offering the cloud service element. In addition to determining the available endpoint locations as an example network topology module may query for the available bandwidth latency or jitter between two locations.

For example a user s enterprise may be in Los Angeles and the user may desire a cloud based database service. The cloud based service may be offered in data centers in Seattle Las Vegas and New York. To connect with the cloud based service network may be able to provide a dedicated network connection between the user s enterprise in Los Angeles and the data center in Seattle or the data center in Las Vegas. User interface module may present these various options to the user.

User interface module may also present prices associated with the various options. To determine the price quote user interface module may send an API request to network API handler module . Network API handler module determines a price quote for the usage of the resources by the user. The price quote is based on parameters such as a user s location and locations of selected data centers. The price quote may also vary depending on a service level such as a bandwidth latency or jitter or data quantity transferred over the connections.

From various options a user may using user interface module select not just the cloud based service elements but also a dedicated network connection that assists in their operation. Once the user has selected its desired options it makes a selection to submit the order. The selection may for example be in the form of a single button on an HTML page that when selected causes the user s client to send an HTTP request to provision both the cloud and network services. In this way by selecting a single user interface element a user can request that both the cloud and network services be provisioned 

In response to a user s request network provisioning module provisions the dedicated network connection. Network provisioning module provisions the cloud based service element together with the dedicated network connection. Such provisioning enables the cloud based service element to utilize the dedicated network connection. To provision the cloud based service element network provisioning module may send an API request to network API server .

In response to the API request network API server may use a network configuration module to configure network to provide the network connection. Network configuration module may determine which switching devices on network need to be configured to achieve the requested change. For example network configuration module may identify endpoint devices for each of the locations connected using the network connectivity services such as switching devices and in .

Once network configuration module identifies each of the interconnected switching devices it configures the switching devices to provide the requested bandwidth to the user. For example network configuration module may send configuration commands to each of the switching devices. Configuring these different types of switches may require different commands. To deal with this problem network configuration module may first look up the necessary commands for each type of switch. In an example network configuration module may utilize different sub modules that understand the mapping of generic attribute models to the specific configuration instruction set of the device being modified. Then network configuration module may send the appropriate type specific commands to each of the switching devices. In this way by interacting with network configuration module using API calls network provisioning module configures the dedicated network connection across the network .

As mentioned above the dedicated network connection across network may connect various data centers or may connect a data center with an enterprise. In addition to configuring a dedicated network connection across network network provisioning module may also provision a network connection within data center .

To provision a network connection within data center network provisioning module may send an API request to an infrastructure API server . Infrastructure API server has an infrastructure configuration module . Infrastructure configuration module operates in a similar manner as network configuration module . Like network configuration module infrastructure configuration module looks up the switches that must be configured on the network in this case infrastructure network and sends the appropriate commands to the switches to configure the connection.

In an example embodiment a data center may use Ethernet protocol on its infrastructure network. In such scenario infrastructure configuration module may for example use a tunneling algorithm through the Ethernet switching devices of data center in order to provide a seamless dedicated connection from switching device to cloud server .

In this way network provisioning module in response to the user s request provisions an infrastructure network connection within the data center. The infrastructure network connection connects the cloud based service element with the network.

Not only are infrastructure and wide area connections implemented in response to the user s request but the cloud service element may be also provisioned. Based on the user s request cloud provisioning module instructs the cloud configuration module to provide access to the requested application by the user.

Cloud configuration module which may reside on the cloud server is connected to the infrastructure network and provides access to the requested application by the user. The dedicated connection that is set up on the infrastructure network can communicate with cloud configuration module to provide the user with access to the requested application.

To provide access to the requested application cloud configuration module may involve installing new software or configuring existing software to support additional users. For example if the user requests a Linux server cloud configuration module may configure a virtual machine to run a Linux operating system. A skilled artisan would recognize that other cloud services may be provisioned in other ways.

In this way in response to a single user request embodiments automatically provision both a cloud based service element and a dedicated network connection to provide secure access to the element.

In some embodiments the provisioning may involve immediately setting up and activating the cloud based service element and the dedicated network connection. In other embodiments the provisioning may also involve scheduling the cloud based service element and the dedicated network connection to be activated at some point in the future. In one embodiment the user can set through an API call times in the future to activate and deactivate the service. When the activate time occurs cloud configuration module infrastructure configuration module and network configuration module set up and activate the cloud based service elements the infrastructure network connection on infrastructure network and the network connection on network respectively. Then when deactivate time occurs the respective modules deactivate the respective services. The times may occur on repeating basis.

In another similar embodiment the user can set again through an API call conditions that trigger activation or deactivation of the services. The conditions may be triggered based on usage characteristics of other connections or usage characteristics of cloud based services. For example a rule may state that when a relational database service reaches 80 of storage capacity another database service element and associated network connection services will be allocated. In this way embodiments allow both cloud based and network service elements to be automatically allocated based on future needs.

Method starts at step when the cloud marketplace server receives a request from a user inquiring about a new cloud based service. For example step may involve entering into a marketplace application. The marketplace application may be a web application accessible using a web browser. The marketplace application may have a shopping cart functionality that allows a user to select what cloud based service elements it wants. When the user enters the marketplace and requests a cloud based application it shops for both cloud based service elements and network connectivity services.

For example a user may place three cloud based virtual machines with certain CPU and memory requirements in its shopping cart. A user may also indicate that it desires a dedicated network connection between the three virtual machines. These user requirements are sent in an API request to the network API server.

At step the network API server receives the user requirements. At step the network API server uses the user requirements to calculate pricing for providing the requested service to the user. This calculation includes the costs of configuring the connections to provide access to the cloud server and providing the cloud based service element.

At step the cloud marketplace server displays a price quote to the user. If the user accepts and follows through with ordering the service the cloud marketplace server receives the user order at step . In response to this acceptance the cloud marketplace server provisions the cloud based service element at step . The cloud marketplace server also sends a request to the network API server to configure network resources to provide the service requested by the user. This may include configuring switching devices in the network to provide a dedicated connection to the user.

Finally at step the network API server bills the user for the network requested network connection or the cloud service elements. The bill may be consistent with the pricing calculated at step . The price may also reflect or be metered by the duration quantity or usage that the user uses the network services. Any of these metering techniques may be used to determine a price for any of the configurations illustrated in .

The term user as used herein may encompass both a customer of the network connectivity service such as an employee of a business that utilizes the network connectivity service and a network administrator of the service provider itself. Users may also be at different companies or organizations. Users may also be automated programs and software applications.

Each of the servers and modules in may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

Each of the servers and modules in may be implemented on the same or different computing devices. Such computing devices can include but are not limited to a personal computer a mobile device such as a mobile phone a workstation an embedded system a game console a television a set top box or any other computing device. Further a computing device can include but is not limited to a device having a processor and memory including a non transitory memory for executing and storing instructions. The memory may tangibly embody the data and program instructions. Software may include one or more applications and an operating system. Hardware can include but is not limited to a processor a memory and a graphical user interface display. The computing device may also have multiple processors and multiple shared or separate memory components. For example the computing device may be a part of or the entirety of a clustered computing environment or server farm.

Identifiers such as a b i ii etc. are sometimes used for different elements or steps. These identifiers are used for clarity and do not necessarily designate an order for the elements or steps.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the implementation of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the art readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Therefore such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance.

The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

