---

title: Unmanned aerial vehicle piloting authorization
abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) piloting authorization implementations are presented that authorize a pilot to operate a UAV in regulated airspace. In general, a UAV authorization system is employed which incorporates a control authorization unit into a UAV controller device and a control instruction authentication unit into a UAV. The control authorization unit obtains a signed digital certificate associated with a UAV pilot, checks that it is signed by a trusted signatory, and then determines that it is currently valid using cloud or server based validation service. If the digital certificate is currently valid, the pilot is allowed to initiate control instructions via the UAV controller device. The signed digital certificate is attached to any control instructions initiated by the pilot before transmission to the UAV. The control instruction authentication unit goes through a similar procedure to authenticate any received control instruction before allowing the UAV to execute the instruction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09651944&OS=09651944&RS=09651944
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09651944
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150322
---
An unmanned aerial vehicle UAV is an aircraft of various configurations that has no pilot aboard. Rather a UAV is typically piloted remotely by a pilot using a controller device that is in communication with the UAV. UAVs can be used for a variety of tasks including surveillance reconnaissance scientific data gathering search and rescue surveying commercial delivery of products and recreational flights to name a few. A UAV is thus useful to the military law enforcement universities civil institutions commercial enterprises and the general public.

The UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein generally involve at least one of authorizing a pilot to operate a UAV validating that a pilot is authorized to operate a UAV and authenticating and executing control instructions initiated by a pilot authorized to operate a UAV.

In one implementation a UAV authorization system is employed to authorize a pilot to operate a UAV in regulated airspace. In general this involves the use of a control authorization unit associated with a UAV controller device. The control authorization unit is made up of at least a processor a communication interface and memory and is in communication via the communication interface with the UAV controller device that is in turn in communication with a UAV. The control authorization unit includes an authorizer operating on the aforementioned processor. The authorizer receives an identification code from the UAV controller device that was entered into the device by the pilot and transmits the identification code to a digital certificate storage unit. The authorizer then receives a signed digital certificate from the digital certificate storage unit whenever the identification code corresponds to a signed digital certificate stored therein. Next the authorizer determines if the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory whose signature is in stored in the control authorization unit memory. If it is determined that the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory the pilot is deemed to be authenticated. If the pilot is deemed to be authenticated the authorizer then transmits a validation request via the communication interface to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is currently valid. The validation service returns an indication as to whether the certificate is currently valid which is received by the authorizer via the communication interface. The authorizer next determines if the received indicator indicates that the digital certificate is currently valid. If it is currently valid the authorizer authorizes the pilot to initiate control instructions via the UAV controller device and attaches the signed digital certificate to any control instructions initiated by the pilot. The instructions are transmitted to the UAV in the normal manner by the UAV controller device. If however the received indicator indicates the digital certificate is invalid the authorizer does not authorize the pilot to initiate control instructions via the UAV controller device and any control instructions initiated by the pilot via the UAV controller are not transmitted to the UAV for flights within a regulated airspace.

In another implementation a UAV authorization system is employed to authenticate and execute control instructions initiated by a pilot authorized to operate a UAV. In general this involves incorporating a control instruction authentication unit into a UAV. The control instruction authentication unit is made up of at least a processor a communication interface and memory and is in communication via the communication interface with the UAV that is in turn in communication with a UAV controller device. The control instruction authentication unit includes a validator operating on the aforementioned processor. The validator receives a control instruction from a UAV controller device. The control instruction also includes a signed digital certificate. The validator next determines if the digital certificate received in the control instruction is signed by a trusted signatory whose signature is stored in the control instruction authentication unit s memory. If it is determined that the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory the validator then transmits a validation request via the communication interface to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is currently valid. The validation service returns an indication as to whether the certificate is currently valid which is received by the validator via the communication interface. The validator next determines if the received indicator indicates that the digital certificate is currently valid. If it is currently valid the validator allows the UAV to execute the received control instruction. If however the received indicator indicates the digital certificate is invalid the validator does not allow the UAV to execute the control instruction.

In another implementation a UAV pilot validation system is employed for validating that a pilot is authorized to operate a UAV. The UAV pilot validation system is made up of one or more computing devices which are in communication with each other via a computer network whenever there are multiple computing devices and a computer program having program modules executable by the one or more computing devices. The UAV pilot validation service receives a validation request from a control authorization unit associated with a UAV controller device or control instruction authentication unit associated with a UAV. The validation request includes a digital certificate that has been issued to and identifies a pilot of the UAV. The UAV pilot validation service then determines whether the digital certificate included in the received validation request is currently valid. A validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid is then transmitted to the aforementioned control authorization unit or control instruction authentication unit.

It should be noted that the foregoing Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented below.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific versions in which UAV piloting authorization implementations can be practiced. It is understood that other implementations can be utilized and structural changes can be made without departing from the scope thereof.

It is also noted that for the sake of clarity specific terminology will be resorted to in describing the UAV piloting authorization implementations and it is not intended for these implementations to be limited to the specific terms so chosen. Furthermore it is to be understood that each specific term includes all its technical equivalents that operate in a broadly similar manner to achieve a similar purpose. Reference herein to one implementation or another implementation or an exemplary implementation or an alternate implementation means that a particular feature a particular structure or particular characteristics described in connection with the implementation can be included in at least one version of the UAV piloting authorization. The appearances of the phrases in one implementation in another implementation in an exemplary implementation and in an alternate implementation in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation nor are separate or alternative implementations mutually exclusive of other implementations. Yet furthermore the order of process flow representing one or more implementations of the UAV piloting authorization does not inherently indicate any particular order or imply any limitations thereof.

As utilized herein the terms component system client and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software e.g. in execution firmware or a combination thereof. For example a component can be a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a function a library a subroutine a computer or a combination of software and hardware. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. The term processor is generally understood to refer to a hardware component such as a processing unit of a computer system.

Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes including has contains and variants thereof and other similar words are used in either this detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

Regulation of unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs is currently in the state of flux. In the past a largely unregulated environment existed where UAVs were treated akin to model airplanes and most regulations were voluntary in nature. However recent incidents involving UAVs have resulted in a regulatory backlash where almost any operation of a UAV out of the pilot s line of site is prohibited. It is believed this almost total prohibition will soon give way to a more considered regulatory scheme. The UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein envision a regulatory environment where in order to operate a UAV in regulated airspace a pilot commercial or private applies for and obtains a UAV license from a governing licensing agency. For example in the United States the governing licensing agency could be the Federal Aviation Administration FAA for commercial and private UAV pilots and the Department of Defense DoD for military UAV pilots. The licensing process could be similar to the one a small aircraft pilot goes through which can include written and performance testing as well as extensive background checks to confirm the applicant identity and to review an applicant s relevant past history.

In general the UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein are realized in a system framework that authorizes a pilot to operate an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV in regulated airspace. Referring to in one implementation this framework includes a UAV controller device that remotely controls a UAV and a UAV pilot validation service that is used to validate whether a pilot is authorized to operate a UAV in regulated airspace among other tasks that will be described later .

The UAV controller device includes a control authorization unit having a least a processor a communication interface and memory . This control authorization unit uses its communication interface to effect communications with the UAV controller device via the device s communication component using conventional communication avenues. In one version the control authorization unit is resident in the UAV controller device although this need not be the case. The UAV controller device is in turn in remote communication with the UAV via the communication component . These communications can be accomplished in a variety of ways including conventional communications schemes such as direct radio frequency communications communications via satellite cellular communications and so on. The control authorization unit also uses its communication interface to effect communications with the UAV pilot validation service . These communications can be accomplished through the UAV controller device s communication component or directly. When the control authorization unit is resident in the UAV controller device communications through the UAV controller device s communication component are advantageous for the sake of simplicity. When the control authorization unit is not resident in the UAV controller device direct communication is advantageous for the same reason. These communications with the UAV pilot validation service can be accomplished in a variety of ways including conventional communications schemes such as WiFi cellular satellite or other wireless networks and an Internet connection.

The UAV includes a control instruction authentication unit having at least a processor a communication interface and memory . This control instruction authentication unit uses its communication interface to effect communications with the UAV via its communication component using conventional communication avenues. The control instruction authentication unit is resident in the UAV . As indicated previously the UAV is in turn in remote communication with the UAV controller device via its communication component . These communications can be accomplished in a variety of ways including conventional communications schemes such as direct radio frequency communications communications via satellite cellular communications and so on. The control instruction authentication unit also uses its communication interface to effect communications with the UAV pilot validation service . These communications can be accomplished through the UAV s communication component or directly. The communications with the UAV pilot validation service can be accomplished in a variety of ways including conventional communications schemes such as a 3G 4G LTE cellular network satellite link or other wireless network and an Internet connection to the UAV pilot validation service .

The UAV pilot validation service includes one or more computing devices which when there are multiple computing devices are in communication with each other via a computer network. These computing device s are also in communication with the UAV controller device s control authorization unit and the UAV s control instruction authentication unit as described previously. The UAV pilot validation service can be realized as either a cloud based or server client based system.

The UAV controller device UAV and UAV pilot validation service will now be described in more detail in the sections to follow.

In general the UAV controller device referred to previously is any device that is designed to control the takeoff flight and landing of a UAV. Many such devices are currently available. For example UAV controller device can take the form of a standard UAV radio controller a personal computing device configured to operate as a UAV controller mobile computing devices configured to operate as a UAV controller or even a radio tower configured to operate as UAV controller among other devices. However in the UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein the UAV controller device has been modified to include the aforementioned control authorization unit. As described previously the control authorization unit includes at least a processor a communication interface and memory. It is noted that while these components are shown as separate elements in in one version they share the existing hardware of the UAV controller device.

In one implementation the control authorization unit includes an authorizer operating on the aforementioned processor. Referring to the authorizer first receives an identification code from the UAV controller device that was entered into the device by the pilot action . In one version the identification code is a standard personal identification number PIN . The identification code can be entered into the UAV controller device in any appropriate fashion. For example many UAV controllers have directional controls e.g. joy sticks buttons trackballs and so on . These directional controls can be used by a pilot to enter an identification code where each element in the code is a direction e.g. up up left right left right . Another way the identification code can be entered into the UAV controller device is via an integrated or external keypad or full keyboard e.g. an external keyboard that is in communication with the UAV controller device via a wired or wireless connection . In such a case the identification code can be a numeric or alphanumeric sequence.

Referring again to the authorizer next transmits the identification code to a digital certificate storage unit action and then receives a signed digital certificate from the digital certificate storage unit whenever the identification code corresponds to a signed digital certificate stored therein action . The nature of the digital certificate will be described in more detail shortly.

In one implementation the digital certificate storage unit takes the form of a conventional smart card. Smart cards provide tamper resistant authentication through onboard private key storage. To accommodate the use of a smart card as the digital certificate storage unit a smart card reader can be incorporated into the UAV controller device itself as is shown by the smart card reader in . In another version an existing or added USB port of the UAV controller device is connected to a USB based smart card reader. It is further noted that the digital certificate storage unit can take forms other than a smart card. For example the digital certificate storage unit can be a hardware token or a personal or mobile computing device that uses multi factor authentication like a smart card.

Referring again to once the authorizer receives the signed digital certificate from the digital certificate storage unit it then determines if the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory whose signature is stored in the control authorization unit memory action . The trusted signatories can include an applicable governing agency such as those described previously in the regulatory scheme and or entities entrusted to issue digital certificates to UAV pilots on behave of the governing agency. If it is determined that the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory the pilot is deemed to be authenticated action . If however it is determined that the digital certificate is not signed by a trusted signatory the authorizer does not authorize the pilot to initiate control instructions via the UAV controller device action and any control instructions initiated by the pilot via the UAV controller are ignored. It is noted that in one implementation the pilot would not be precluded from operating the UAV in non regulated airspace e.g. flying in low altitudes on private property or in areas outside the jurisdiction of the governing authority despite having a digital certificate that is not signed by a trusted signatory.

Referring again to if the pilot is deemed to be authenticated the authorizer then transmits a validation request via the communication interface to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is currently valid action . The operations of the validation service will be described in more detail later however in general the validation service ensures that the digital certificate is issued from the appropriate governing authority or an authorized surrogate to a licensed UAV pilot as well as checking that the digital certificate has not been revoked. The validation service returns an indication as to whether the certificate is currently valid which is received by the authorizer via the communication interface action . The authorizer next determines if the received indicator indicates that the digital certificate is currently valid action . If it is currently valid the authorizer authorizes the pilot to initiate control instructions via the UAV controller device action . The authorizer also attaches the signed digital certificate to any control instructions initiated by the pilot action and the instructions are transmitted to the UAV in the normal manner by the UAV controller device. If however the received indicator indicates the digital certificate is invalid for reasons including but not limited to a cancelled pilot license or revoked digital certificate the authorizer does not authorize the pilot to initiate control instructions via the UAV controller device action and any control instructions initiated by the pilot via the UAV controller are not transmitted to the UAV for flights within a regulated airspace. It is noted that in one implementation the pilot would not be precluded from operating the UAV in non regulated airspace e.g. flying in low altitudes on private property or in areas outside the jurisdiction of the governing authority despite having an invalid digital certificate.

Many types of unmanned aerial vehicles are currently available. However in the UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein the UAV has been modified to include the aforementioned control instruction authentication unit. As described previously the control instruction authentication unit is resident in the UAV and includes at least a processor a communication interface and memory. It is noted that while these components are shown as separate elements in in one version they share the existing hardware of the UAV.

In one implementation the control instruction authentication unit includes a validator operating on the aforementioned processor. Referring to the validator receives a control instruction from a UAV controller device action . The control instruction is used to launch maneuver or land the UAV among other things. The control instruction also includes a signed digital certificate.

The validator next determines if the digital certificate received in the control instruction is signed by a trusted signatory whose signature is in stored in the control instruction authentication unit s memory action . As described previously the trusted signatories can include an applicable governing agency and or entities entrusted by the governing agency. If it is determined that the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory the validator then transmits a validation request via the communication interface to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is currently valid action . If not the received control instruction is ignored and not executed by the UAV action .

As described previously the validation service generally ensures that the digital certificate is issued from the appropriate governing authority or an authorized surrogate as well as checking that the digital certificate has not been revoked. Referring again to the validation service returns an indication as to whether the certificate is currently valid which is received by the validator via the communication interface action . The validator next determines if the received indicator indicates that the digital certificate is currently valid action . If it is currently valid the validator allows the UAV to execute the control instruction action . If however the received indicator indicates the digital certificate is invalid for reasons including but not limited to a cancelled pilot license or revoked digital certificate the validator does not allow the UAV to execute the control instruction action .

It is noted that in one implementation the control instruction received from the UAV controller device was entered into the controller device by a UAV pilot and the signed digital certificate included with the control instruction is associated with the pilot. Thus whenever the aforementioned validation indicator indicates that the digital certificate associated with the pilot is currently valid the validator allows the UAV to execute the control instruction that was initiated by the UAV pilot. However whenever the validation indicator indicates that the digital certificate associated with the pilot is invalid the validator does not allow the UAV to execute the control instruction that was initiated by the UAV pilot. In one version though the prohibition on executing the pilot s control instruction applies only if the UAV is in regulated airspace. The control instruction would be executed if the UAV is operating in non regulated airspace e.g. flying in low altitudes on private property or in areas outside the jurisdiction of the governing authority despite having an invalid digital certificate or no certificate at all .

The above described UAV authentication scheme can include more than authenticating and executing control instructions initiated by a pilot authorized to operate a UAV. In one implementation the UAV authentication scheme also includes a takeover feature. In general the takeover feature allows an authorized agency to take control of a UAV from a pilot. For example if a UAV pilot deviates from a prescribed flight path or enters a restricted airspace such as over sensitive or secured areas or presents a national security terror threat an authorized agency can take control of a UAV from a pilot and safely divert land or crash it depending on the circumstance threat confidence and or urgency. This is regardless of whether the pilot has a currently valid digital certificate or not. It is noted that the agencies that can take control of a UAV can include more than the agency that issues UAV pilot licenses. For instance these agencies can be local or national law enforcement bodies or military authorities.

In order to do this takeover securely and to prevent just anyone from simply taking over a UAV a procedure similar to validating the control signals initiated by a pilot is employed. In general the UAV s control instruction authentication unit validates a takeover command from an authorized agency using the aforementioned validation service. More particularly in one implementation illustrated in the aforementioned control instruction authentication unit s validator receives a takeover command from an agency that has authority to takeover control of the UAV from the pilot action . The takeover command includes control instructions and a signed digital certificate issued to the agency. The validator next determines if the digital certificate received in the takeover command is signed by a trusted signatory whose signature is in stored in the control instruction authentication unit s memory action . If it is determined that the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory the agency is deemed to be authenticated action . If not the received takeover command is ignored and not executed by the UAV action .

Referring again to if the agency is deemed to be authenticated the validator then transmits a validation request via the communication interface to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is currently valid action . The validation service returns an indication as to whether the certificate is currently valid which is received by the validator via the communication interface action . The validator next determines if the received indicator indicates that the digital certificate is currently valid action . If it is currently valid the validator ignores any further control instructions received from the UAV controller device entered by the pilot and has the UAV execute the control instructions received in the takeover command instead action . It is noted that the foregoing authentication and validation procedure is repeated for any further control instruction that includes a digital certificate received from the agency. If however it is determined the received indicator indicates the digital certificate is invalid for reasons including but not limited to a cancelled license or revoked digital certificate the validator ignores the control instructions received in the takeover command and continues to have the UAV execute any validated control instructions received from the UAV controller device that were entered by the pilot action .

It is noted that the pilot s digital certificate identifies the pilot and prevents repudiation i.e. often referred to as nonrepudiation . Thus if the pilot s operation of the UAV causes an authorized agency to takeover control the pilot will not be able to deny culpability based on the digital certificate that was used to control the UAV. Thus safe flying is encouraged and personal accountability and legal liability are facilitated.

It is further noted that in one implementation in the event an authorized agency takes over a UAV the validator transmits control instructions received from the UAV controller device that were entered by the pilot to the validation service for auditing and logging. In addition in one version the validator also transmits the takeover command and any additional control instructions received from the agency to the validation service for auditing and logging. In this way a record of the control instructions received by the UAV in a takeover situation is captured for any investigation that follows.

In one implementation the UAV pilot validation service is realized in a cloud based system often referred to as a cloud service. The term cloud service generally refers to a web application that operates in the cloud and can be hosted on e.g. deployed at a plurality of data centers that can be located in different geographic regions e.g. different regions of the world and can be concurrently used by a plurality of remote end users. It is noted that although the system framework in depicts a single UAV controller device and a single UAV in communication with the UAV pilot validation service it is envisioned that as a cloud service the UAV pilot validation service will simultaneously handle multiple UAV controller UAV pairs associated with different pilots.

The UAV pilot validation service is used to validate that a pilot is authorized to operate a UAV as described previously. In various other previously described implementations the UAV pilot validation service validates pilot initiated UAV control instructions or takeover commands and additional control instructions received from an authorized agency or logs control instruction and commands received by a UAV or any combination of these tasks. Additionally in one implementation the UAV pilot validation service issues digital certificates to UAV pilots on behalf of an authorized governing agency thereby acting as a certificate issuing authority or signs a digital certificate thereby acting as a trusted signatory or both. Each of these functions will now be described in more detail.

Referring to in one implementation the UAV pilot validation service receives a validation request from a control authorization unit associated with a UAV controller device action . As indicated previously this validation request includes a digital certificate that has been issued to and identifies a pilot of the UAV. The UAV pilot validation service then determines whether the digital certificate included in the received validation request is currently valid action . A validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid is then transmitted to the aforementioned control authorization unit action . It is noted that in one version determining whether the digital certificate is currently valid involves deeming the certificate to be invalid if it appears on a current list of revoked certificates. This list of revoked digital certificates is created and maintained by the governing agency authorized to issue the certificates and can be made available via the agency s site on a computer network such as the Internet. It is noted that alternately the list of revoked digital certificates could be hosted by the UAV pilot validation service on behalf of the governing agency.

Referring to in one implementation the UAV pilot validation service receives a validation request from a control instruction authentication unit which is resident in a UAV action . The validation request was sent in response to the control instruction authentication unit s receipt of a control instruction initiated by a UAV pilot via a UAV controller device. As indicated previously this validation request includes a digital certificate that has been issued to and identifies the pilot of the UAV. The UAV pilot validation service then determines whether the digital certificate is currently valid action . A validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid is then transmitted to the control instruction authentication unit action . It is noted that in one version determining whether the digital certificate is currently valid involves deeming the certificate to be invalid if it appears on the aforementioned current list of revoked certificates.

It is noted that in one implementation the foregoing validation request also includes the pilot initiated control instruction received from the UAV control device. In this implementation the received control instruction is saved by the UAV pilot validation service for the purpose of auditing and logging control instructions initiated by the UAV pilot.

Referring to in one implementation the UAV pilot validation service receives a validation request from a UAV s control instruction authentication unit which was sent in response to the control instruction authentication unit s receipt of either a takeover command initiated by an authorized agency who has the authority to takeover control of the UAV from the pilot or additional control instructions sent to the UAV by the authorized agency subsequent to the takeover command action . The validation request includes a digital certificate that has been issued to and identifies the authorized agency. The UAV pilot validation service then determines whether the digital certificate is currently valid action . A validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid is then transmitted to the control instruction authentication unit action .

It is noted that in one implementation the foregoing validation request also includes either control instructions received with a takeover command or the aforementioned additional control instructions. In this implementation the received takeover command and control instructions are saved by the UAV pilot validation service for the purpose of auditing and logging commands and control instructions initiated by the authorized agency.

As indicated previously in one implementation the UAV pilot validation service issues digital certificates to UAV pilots on behalf of an authorized governing agency thereby acting as a registration authority or enrollment agent. It can also sign a digital certificate in one implementation thereby acting as a trusted signatory.

With regard to the UAV pilot validation service issuing digital certificates to UAV pilots in one version shown in this involves the service receiving a request to issue a digital certificate often referred to as a certificate signing request CSR from a regulatory agency that regulates the operation of a UAV in a regulated airspace action . The UAV pilot validation service then issues the requested digital certificate action and provides it to a trusted signatory for application of a digital signature action .

For example after a governing agency such as the FAA or DOD issues a license to the pilot that agency contacts UAV pilot validation service and submits a request for a digital certificate e.g. a x509 type certificate . The digital certificate at least identifies a UAV pilot and indicates that the pilot is licensed to operate a UAV in the regulated airspace. In one implementation the digital certificate meets the following requirements 

However to use the digital certificate it has to be digitally signed by a trusted certificate signing authority. As indicated previously these trusted signatories include the governing licensing agency e.g. FAA DoD as well as other government law enforcement and military agencies. In addition the UAV pilot validation service or another service can be authorized by the governing licensing agency to act as a trusted signatory.

In the event that the UAV pilot validation service acts as a trusted signatory for the governing licensing agency a digital certificate would be received from a certificate issuing authority which in one version is the UAV pilot validation service itself along with a request to digitally sign the certificate. The UAV pilot validation service digitally signs the digital certificate and provides it to the UAV pilot or in an alternate scheme to the governing licensing agency which in turn provides it to the pilot .

Aspects of the UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein are operational using numerous types of general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. illustrates a simplified example of a general purpose computer system with which various aspects and elements of UAV piloting authorization as described herein may be implemented. It is noted that any boxes that are represented by broken or dashed lines in the simplified computing device shown in represent alternate implementations of the simplified computing device. As described below any or all of these alternate implementations may be used in combination with other alternate implementations that are described throughout this document. The simplified computing device is typically found in devices having at least some minimum computational capability such as personal computers PCs server computers handheld computing devices laptop or mobile computers communications devices such as cell phones and personal digital assistants PDAs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and audio or video media players.

To realize the UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein the device should have a sufficient computational capability and system memory to enable basic computational operations. In particular the computational capability of the simplified computing device shown in is generally illustrated by one or more processing unit s and may also include one or more graphics processing units GPUs either or both in communication with system memory . Note that that the processing unit s of the simplified computing device may be specialized microprocessors such as a digital signal processor DSP a very long instruction word VLIW processor a field programmable gate array FPGA or other micro controller or can be conventional central processing units CPUs having one or more processing cores.

In addition the simplified computing device may also include other components such as for example a communications interface . The simplified computing device may also include one or more conventional computer input devices e.g. touchscreens touch sensitive surfaces pointing devices keyboards audio input devices voice or speech based input and control devices video input devices haptic input devices devices for receiving wired or wireless data transmissions and the like or any combination of such devices.

Similarly various interactions with the simplified computing device and with any other component or feature of wearable sensing including input output control feedback and response to one or more users or other devices or systems associated with UAV piloting authorization are enabled by a variety of Natural User Interface NUI scenarios. The NUI techniques and scenarios enabled by UAV piloting authorization include but are not limited to interface technologies that allow one or more users user to interact in a natural manner free from artificial constraints imposed by input devices such as mice keyboards remote controls and the like.

Such NUI implementations are enabled by the use of various techniques including but not limited to using NUI information derived from user speech or vocalizations captured via microphones or other sensors. Such NUI implementations are also enabled by the use of various techniques including but not limited to information derived from a user s facial expressions and from the positions motions or orientations of a user s hands fingers wrists arms legs body head eyes and the like where such information may be captured using various types of 2D or depth imaging devices such as stereoscopic or time of flight camera systems infrared camera systems RGB red green and blue camera systems and the like or any combination of such devices. Further examples of such NUI implementations include but are not limited to NUI information derived from touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition both onscreen and adjacent to the screen or display surface air or contact based gestures user touch on various surfaces objects or other users hover based inputs or actions and the like. Such NUI implementations may also include but are not limited the use of various predictive machine intelligence processes that evaluate current or past user behaviors inputs actions etc. either alone or in combination with other NUI information to predict information such as user intentions desires and or goals. Regardless of the type or source of the NUI based information such information may then be used to initiate terminate or otherwise control or interact with one or more inputs outputs actions or functional features of the UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein.

However it should be understood that the aforementioned exemplary NUI scenarios may be further augmented by combining the use of artificial constraints or additional signals with any combination of NUI inputs. Such artificial constraints or additional signals may be imposed or generated by input devices such as mice keyboards and remote controls or by a variety of remote or user worn devices such as accelerometers electromyography EMG sensors for receiving myoelectric signals representative of electrical signals generated by user s muscles heart rate monitors galvanic skin conduction sensors for measuring user perspiration wearable or remote biosensors for measuring or otherwise sensing user brain activity or electric fields wearable or remote biosensors for measuring user body temperature changes or differentials and the like. Any such information derived from these types of artificial constraints or additional signals may be combined with any one or more NUI inputs to initiate terminate or otherwise control or interact with one or more inputs outputs actions or functional features of the UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein.

The simplified computing device may also include other optional components such as one or more conventional computer output devices e.g. display device s audio output devices video output devices devices for transmitting wired or wireless data transmissions and the like . Note that typical communications interfaces input devices output devices and storage devices for general purpose computers are well known to those skilled in the art and will not be described in detail herein.

The simplified computing device shown in may also include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer via storage devices and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media that is either removable and or non removable for storage of information such as computer readable or computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer readable media includes computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media refers to tangible computer readable or machine readable media or storage devices such as digital versatile disks DVDs blu ray discs BD compact discs CDs floppy disks tape drives hard drives optical drives solid state memory devices random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage smart cards flash memory e.g. card stick and key drive magnetic cassettes magnetic tapes magnetic disk storage magnetic strips or other magnetic storage devices. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media.

Retention of information such as computer readable or computer executable instructions data structures program modules and the like can also be accomplished by using any of a variety of the aforementioned communication media as opposed to computer storage media to encode one or more modulated data signals or carrier waves or other transport mechanisms or communications protocols and can include any wired or wireless information delivery mechanism. Note that the terms modulated data signal or carrier wave generally refer to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection carrying one or more modulated data signals and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared laser and other wireless media for transmitting and or receiving one or more modulated data signals or carrier waves.

Furthermore software programs and or computer program products embodying some or all of the various UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein or portions thereof may be stored received transmitted or read from any desired combination of computer readable or machine readable media or storage devices and communication media in the form of computer executable instructions or other data structures. Additionally the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media.

Aspects of the UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein may be further described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computing device. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the UAV piloting authorization implementations described herein may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by one or more remote processing devices or within a cloud of one or more devices that are linked through one or more communications networks. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including media storage devices. Additionally the aforementioned instructions may be implemented in part or in whole as hardware logic circuits which may or may not include a processor.

Alternatively or in addition the functionality described herein can be performed at least in part by one or more hardware logic components. For example and without limitation illustrative types of hardware logic components that can be used include field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs application specific standard products ASSPs system on a chip systems SOCs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs and so on.

It is noted that any or all of the aforementioned implementations throughout the description may be used in any combination desired to form additional hybrid implementations. In addition although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

What has been described above includes example implementations. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the foregoing implementations include a system as well as a computer readable storage media having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

There are multiple ways of realizing the foregoing implementations such as an appropriate application programming interface API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object or the like which enable applications and services to use the implementations described herein. The claimed subject matter contemplates this use from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from the standpoint of a software or hardware object that operates according to the implementations set forth herein. Thus various implementations described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware or partly in hardware and partly in software or wholly in software.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It will be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components e.g. hierarchical components .

Additionally it is noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

The following paragraphs summarize various examples of implementations which may be claimed in the present document. However it should be understood that the implementations summarized below are not intended to limit the subject matter which may be claimed in view of the foregoing descriptions. Further any or all of the implementations summarized below may be claimed in any desired combination with some or all of the implementations described throughout the foregoing description and any implementations illustrated in one or more of the figures and any other implementations described below. In addition it should be noted that the following implementations are intended to be understood in view of the foregoing description and figures described throughout this document.

In one implementation an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV authorization system for authorizing a pilot to operate a UAV includes a UAV controller device and a control authorization unit. The control authorization unit includes a processor a communication interface and memory and is in communication via the communication interface with the UAV controller device that is in turn in communication with a UAV. The control authorization unit also includes an authorizer operating on the processor. This authorizer among other things receives an identification code from the UAV controller device that was entered into the UAV controller device by the pilot transmits the identification code to a digital certificate storage unit receives a signed digital certificate from the digital certificate storage unit whenever the identification code corresponds to the signed digital certificate determines if the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory whose signature is in stored in the control authorization unit memory and whenever it is determined the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory deems the pilot to be authenticated. Whenever the pilot is authenticated the authorizer transmits a validation request to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is valid where the control authorization unit is in communication with the validation service via the communication interface. The authorizer then receives from the validation service a validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid. Whenever the received validation indicator indicates that the received digital certificate is currently valid the authorizer authorizes the pilot to initiate control instructions via the UAV controller device and attaches the signed digital certificate to any control instructions initiated by the pilot. However whenever the received validation indicator indicates that the digital certificate is invalid the authorizer does not authorize the pilot to initiate control instructions via the UAV controller device and does not transmit the control instruction to the UAV for flights within a regulated airspace. In one version the digital certificate storage unit is a smart card and the UAV controller device has a built in smart card reader or is in communication with an external smart card reader. Further in one version the identification code received from the UAV controller device was entered into the UAV controller device by the pilot using controls resident on the controller device.

In one implementation an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV authorization system for authenticating and executing control instructions includes a UAV and a control instruction authentication unit. The control instruction authentication unit includes a processor a communication interface and memory and is resident in and in communication via the communication interface with the UAV that is in turn in communication with a UAV controller device. The control instruction authentication unit also includes a validator operating on the processor. This validator among other things receives a control instruction from the UAV controller device that includes a signed digital certificate determines if the digital certificate is digitally signed by a trusted signatory whose digital signature is in stored in the control instruction authentication unit memory and if it is determined the digital certificate is digitally signed by a trusted signatory transmits an validation request to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is valid. The control instruction authentication unit is in communication with the validation service via a communication interface. The validator then receives from the validation service a validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid and whenever the received validation indicator indicates that the received digital certificate is currently valid allows the UAV to execute the received control instruction. In one version the validator s receipt of the control instruction from the UAV controller device includes receiving a control instruction from the UAV controller device that was entered into the UAV controller device by a UAV pilot. The control instruction includes a signed digital certificate associated with the UAV pilot. The validator then transmits a validation request to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate received with the control instruction is valid. In this version whenever the aforementioned received validation indicator indicates that the received digital certificate is currently valid the validator allows the UAV to execute the received control instruction received from the UAV controller device that was entered into the UAV controller device by the UAV pilot. However whenever the received validation indicator indicates that the digital certificate is invalid the validator does not allow the UAV to execute the control instruction received from the UAV controller device that was entered into the UAV controller device by the UAV pilot for flights within a regulated airspace. In one version the validator s receipt of the control instruction from the UAV controller device includes receiving a takeover command from an agency who has the authority to takeover control of the UAV from the pilot. The takeover command includes control instructions and a signed digital certificate issued to the agency. The validator then transmits a validation request to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate received with the control instruction is valid. In this version whenever the aforementioned received validation indicator indicates that the received digital certificate is currently valid the validator does not implement any further control instructions received from the UAV controller device that were entered into the UAV controller device by the pilot and implements the control instructions received in the takeover command. In one version the validator also receives additional control instructions and a signed digital certificate issued to the aforementioned agency determines if the digital certificate is digitally signed by a trusted signatory whose digital signature is in stored in the control instruction authentication unit memory and if so deems the agency who transmitted the additional control instructions to be authenticated. Whenever the agency is authenticated the validator then transmits a validation request to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is valid. A validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid is then received from the validation service. Whenever the received validation indicator indicates that the digital certificate received from the agency is currently valid the additional control instructions are implemented. In one version the validator transmits the takeover command and any additional control instructions received from the agency to the validation service for auditing and logging. And in one version the validator transmits unimplemented control instructions received from the UAV controller device that were entered into the UAV controller device by the pilot to the validation service for auditing and logging.

In one implementation an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV pilot validation system for validating that a pilot is authorized to operate a UAV includes one or more computing devices wherein the computing devices are in communication with each other via a computer network whenever there are multiple computing devices and a computer program having program modules executable by the one or more computing devices. The one or more computing devices are directed by the program modules of the computer program to receive a validation request from a control authorization unit associated with a UAV controller device that is in communication with and which transmits control instructions to a UAV. The validation request includes a digital certificate that has been issued to and identifies a pilot of the UAV. The one or more computing devices are also directed by the program modules of the computer program to determine whether the digital certificate included in the received validation request is currently valid and to transmit a validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid to the control authorization unit. In one version the program module for determining whether the digital certificate included in the received validation request is currently valid includes deeming the digital certificate to be invalid if it appears on a current list of revoked certificates.

In one version of the UAV pilot validation system the one or more computing devices are further directed by the program modules of the computer program to receive a validation request from a control instruction authentication unit which is resident in a UAV and which received a control instruction including a digital certificate that has been issued to and identifies a pilot of the UAV. The validation request includes this digital certificate. Next it is determined whether the digital certificate received from the control instruction authentication unit and included in the received validation request is currently valid and a validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid is transmitted to the control instruction authentication unit. In one version the validation request received from the control instruction authentication unit resident in the UAV further includes a pilot initiated control instruction and wherein the computer program further includes a program module for saving the received pilot initiated control instructions for auditing and logging of control instructions initiated by the UAV pilot. Further in one version the program module for determining whether the digital certificate received from the control instruction authentication unit and included in the received validation request is currently valid includes deeming the digital certificate to be invalid if it appears on a current list of revoked certificates.

In one version of the UAV pilot validation system the one or more computing devices are further directed by the program modules of the computer program to receive a validation request from the control instruction authentication unit which is resident in the UAV and which received a takeover command initiated by an agency who has the authority to takeover control of the UAV from the pilot. This validation request includes a digital certificate that has been issued to and identifies the agency. Next it is determined whether the digital certificate received from the control instruction authentication unit and included in the received validation request is currently valid and a validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid is transmitted to the control instruction authentication unit. In one version of the UAV pilot validation system the one or more computing devices are further directed by the program modules of the computer program to receive a validation request from the control instruction authentication unit which is resident in the UAV and which received additional control instructions initiated by the agency. This validation request includes the digital certificate issued to the agency. Next it is determined whether the digital certificate received from the control instruction authentication unit and included in the received validation request is currently valid and a validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid is transmitted to the control instruction authentication unit. In one version the takeover command received from the control instruction authentication unit resident in the UAV further includes control instructions and the computer program further includes a program module for saving the received takeover command control instructions or additional control instructions or both for auditing and logging of control instructions initiated by the regulatory agency.

In one version of the UAV pilot validation system the one or more computing devices are further directed by the program modules of the computer program to receive a request to issue a digital certificate from a regulatory agency that regulates the operation of a UAV in a regulated airspace. This digital certificate at least provides the identity of a UAV pilot and an indication that the pilot is licensed to operate a UAV in regulated airspace. Next the requested digital certificate is issued such that the UAV pilot validation system is acting as a registration authority or enrollment agent. Then the digital certificate is provided to a trusted signatory for application of a digital signature. In one version the computer program further comprises program modules for receiving a digital certificate from a certificate issuing authority along with a request to digitally sign the certificate. This digital certificate at least provides the identity of a UAV pilot and indicates that the pilot is licensed to operate a UAV in regulated airspace. Next the digital certificate is digitally signed such that the UAV pilot validation system is acting as a trusted signatory. The signed digital certificate is then provided to the UAV pilot.

The implementations and versions described in any of the previous paragraphs in this section may also be combined with each other and with one or more of the implementations and versions described prior to this section.

In various implementations an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV authorization system is implemented by a means for authorizing a pilot to operate a UAV. For example in one implementation the authorization system includes a UAV controller device and a control authorization unit. The control authorization unit includes a processor a communication interface and memory and is in communication via the communication interface with the UAV controller device that is in turn in communication with a UAV. The control authorization unit further includes an authorizer operating on the processor that is configured to execute a receiving step for receiving an identification code from the UAV controller device that was entered into the UAV controller device by the pilot a transmitting step for transmitting the identification code to a digital certificate storage unit a second receiving step for receiving a signed digital certificate from the digital certificate storage unit whenever the identification code corresponds to the signed digital certificate a determining step for determining if the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory whose signature is in stored in the control authorization unit memory a deeming step for deeming the pilot to be authenticated whenever it is determined the digital certificate is signed by a trusted signatory a second transmitting step for transmitting a validation request to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is valid whenever the pilot is authenticated wherein the control authorization unit is in communication with the validation service via the communication interface a third receiving step for receiving from the validation service a validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid and an authorizing step for authorizing the pilot to initiate control instructions via the UAV controller device and attaching the signed digital certificate to any control instructions initiated by the pilot whenever the received validation indicator indicates that the received digital certificate is currently valid.

In various implementations an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV authorization system is implemented by a means for authenticating and executing UAV control instructions. For example in one implementation the authorization system includes a UAV and a control instruction authentication unit. The control instruction authentication unit includes a processor a communication interface and memory which is resident in and in communication via the communication interface with the UAV that is in turn in communication with a UAV controller device. The control instruction authentication unit further includes a validator operating on the processor that is configured to execute a receiving step for receiving a control instruction from the UAV controller device said control instruction comprising a signed digital certificate a determining step for determining if the digital certificate is digitally signed by a trusted signatory whose digital signature is in stored in the control instruction authentication unit memory a transmitting step for transmitting an validation request to a validation service to determine whether the digital certificate is valid if it is determined the digital certificate is digitally signed by a trusted signatory wherein the control instruction authentication unit is in communication with the validation service via the communication interface a second receiving step for receiving from the validation service a validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid and an allowing step for allowing the UAV to execute the received control instruction whenever the received validation indicator indicates that the received digital certificate is currently valid.

In various implementations an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV pilot validation system is implemented by a means for validating that a pilot is authorized to operate a UAV. For example in one implementation the UAV pilot validation system includes one or more computing devices the computing devices being in communication with each other via a computer network whenever there is a plurality of computing devices and a computer program having program modules executable by the one or more computing devices the one or more computing devices being directed by the program modules of the computer program to execute a number of steps. These steps include a receiving step for receiving a validation request from a control authorization unit associated with a UAV controller device that is in communication with and which transmits control instructions to a UAV wherein the validation request includes a digital certificate that has been issued to and identifies a pilot of the UAV a determining step for determining whether the digital certificate included in the received validation request is currently valid and a transmitting step for transmitting a validation indicator indicating whether the received digital certificate is currently valid to the control authorization unit.

