---

title: Beverage container lid that provides natural drinking experience
abstract: A beverage container lid. The lid provides a drink outlet that allows liquid to fill a drink well base, from which a consumer may sip a beverage similar to using a cup or mug. The lid provides a natural drinking experience. The base is sized and shaped to sealingly engage the opening of the beverage container. A hollow raised lip portion is provided, with an exterior portion extending upwardly. An outer lip portion is provided having an interior portion sloping downwardly and inwardly. The drink well base may slope upwardly from a peripheral side.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642483&OS=09642483&RS=09642483
owner: 
number: 09642483
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150104
---
This application is a Continuation of and claims priority under USC 120 from pending U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 797 858 filed Mar. 12 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 950 623 B2 issued Feb. 10 2015 entitled BEVERAGE CONTAINER LID THAT PROVIDES NATURAL DRINKING EXPERIENCE which application claimed priority from prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 614 955 filed Mar. 23 2012 entitled VAPOR DIRECTING LID AND BAFFLE FOR BEVERAGE CONTAINER. The disclosures of each of the just noted prior related patent applications is incorporated herein in their entirety including the specification drawing and claims by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This disclosure relates to lids for drinking cups and more specifically to lids for containers for beverages and in some aspects to containers for beverages having an aroma such as coffee or tea.

Disposable beverage containers which may be described herein as drinking cups or beverage cups are ubiquitous for use in on the go consumption of liquids particularly hot beverages such as coffee or tea. Disposable beverage cups often utilize a disposable lid to minimize splashing or spilling of the beverage from the container. Disposable lids most commonly used at this time provide a horizontally oriented drink opening on a top surface of a raised rim. Many of such designs allow a user to drink through the lid in a manner similar in many respects to drinking through a straw or worse in that it seems a limited amount of liquid is provided. Such shortcomings are exacerbated when vent openings are minimal or otherwise inadequately provided. Moreover since such a drink opening is covered by the lips of the user while drinking very little aroma from the beverage escapes to the user s nose.

Prior efforts to develop a disposable lid that would enable a user to drink naturally as if drinking out of a cup or mug that does not have a lid thereon have resulted in various undesired effects that have limited their utility. Thus there remains a need to provide a lid design for a disposable beverage cup or container that is easy to use. It would be even more advantageous for such a lid to be provided in a disposable material. In would be additionally desirable if such a lid design were available that significantly enhances pleasurable drinking experience in the manner of presentation of liquid to the user and or in the manner of providing aroma of the beverage to the user.

A novel drink through type beverage container lid has been developed that in various embodiments significantly enhance the pleasure of a user s beverage drinking experience as compared to various prior art lids and containers. The lid provides a drink outlet that allows liquid to fill a drink well base and from which a consumer may sip a beverage similar to using a cup or mug. The lid has a base with a rim having a bottom edge and an interior bead sealing portion. In an embodiment the rim may be annular in shape. The base is sized and shaped to sealingly engage via the interior bead sealing portion an open end of a beverage cup. In many embodiments a circular opening is provided in a beverage cup which may be defined by a bead at the upper reaches thereof and in such cases the interior bead sealing portion sealingly engages the bead on the beverage cup. In an embodiment when the drink through lid is in use on a beverage container the interior bead sealing portion may be centered with respect to a bead on the beverage cup. A hollow raised lip portion is provided in the lid and it has an exterior portion extending upwardly from the base an outer lip portion and an interior portion sloping downwardly from the outer lip portion to lower end portions. In an embodiment the interior portion of the raised hollow lip portion may slope inwardly from the outer lip portion.

A drink well base for containing liquid is provided. In an embodiment the drink well base has a sloped floor extending upwardly from a peripheral side along the lower end portions. In an embodiment the drink well base may be located above the bottom edge of the rim and below the outer lip portion. In an embodiment the lowest portion of the floor of the drink well base may be located vertically above the center line of the interior bead sealing portion. In an embodiment the lowest portion of the floor of the drink well base may be located at or near the vertical level of the center line of the interior bead sealing portion. In an embodiment the lowest portion of the floor of the drink well base may be located below the center line of the interior bead sealing portion. In various embodiments the drink well base may be located vertically at a level that is at about one half inch 0.5 1.27 cm below the center line of the interior bead sealing portion or higher. At least one drink outlet is provided. The at least one drink outlet may be defined by a first edgewall extending upward into the interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion and by an elongated second edgewall extending along an outlet portion of the drink well base in proximity to the peripheral edge. In an embodiment a portion of the at least one drink outlet may be oriented along a first surface extending from the elongated second edgewall at an angle alpha in the range of from about forty degrees 40 to about ninety degrees 90 . In an embodiment the first surface may be a planar surface. In an embodiment a portion of the at least one drink outlet may be oriented along a second surface extending along the drink well base. In an embodiment the second surface may be a planar surface. In an embodiment the drink opening may be defined as if the first surface and the second surface are joined along a radiused curve. In an embodiment a first planar surface and a second planar surface may be joined as if along a radiused curve. In an embodiment an inwardly protruding shoulder may be provided from the interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion and the drink opening may be defined by an opening cut along the inwardly protruding shoulder. In an embodiment the inwardly protruding shoulder may be arcuate in shape with an upwardly directed arching central portion.

In another embodiment a drink through lid as generally described above may be provided further including a downwardly extending wall extending transversely across the drink through lid. In an embodiment a v shaped wall may be provided. In an embodiment the downwardly extending wall may be parallel to the elongated second edgewall of the drink through opening. In an embodiment the downwardly extending wall may be provided in a continuous shaped surface from edge to edge that is downwardly through a valley which connects a first ridge and a second ridge of the wall.

In a further embodiment a slit of length LS may be provided across the lid as defined by first and second ends. In an embodiment the slit may be further defined by a first edge and by a second edge in a downwardly extending wall. Such a slit may be utilized for locating a baffle therein. However a drink through lid including a slit may also be used on a beverage cup without a baffle inserted therein.

In an embodiment a baffle may be provided for use with a drink through lid having a slit therein. The baffle may be used for enhancing a beverage drinking experience by pumping and directing vapors toward the nose of a user. The baffle may be provided in a generally trapezoidal shaped configuration having a baffle height and varying widths complementary to the interior dimensions including width and height of a selected beverage cup. In an embodiment the baffle may be provided with a slot defining a liquid passageway at the lower reaches thereof. In an embodiment a baffle may also be provided with locking features to securely locate a baffle vertically with respect to the lid and to assure close fitting engagement between the sides of the baffle and the inner wall of the beverage container when the lid is snapped into place on the beverage container.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from a final configuration for a disposable lid or of any baffle and lid for beverage container utilizing the principles taught herein or that may be implemented in various embodiments described herein for such lids baffles and containers. Other variations in lid designs and in baffle designs may use slightly different mechanical structures mechanical arrangements liquid flow configurations or vapor flow configurations and yet employ the principles described herein and as generally depicted in the drawing figures provided. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of exemplary lid and baffle designs for beverage containers. Such details may be quite useful for providing a high quality improved beverage container lids for use in enhancing the drinking pleasure of users of the disposable lid designs and baffle designs taught herein.

It should be understood that various features may be utilized in accord with the teachings hereof as may be useful in different embodiments as useful for various sizes and shapes of cups lids and baffles depending upon the conditions of service such as temperatures and vapor pressures of liquids being handled and aroma content generated to vapors from such liquids within the scope and coverage of the teachings herein as defined by the claims. Further like features in various lid designs whether or not including a slot for accommodation of a baffle may be described using like reference numerals or other like references without further mention thereof.

Attention is directed to where a drink through lid for a beverage container see is provided. The lid provides at least one drink opening designated as at least one drink outlet that allows liquid to fill a drink well base from which a user or consumer may sip a beverage in a manner similar to when using a cup or mug. The lid has a base with rim having a bottom edge and an interior bead sealing portion . In an embodiment rim may be annular in shape. The base is sized and shaped to sealingly engage an open end of beverage container open end not shown but often circular which may be defined by a bead of a beverage container . A hollow raised lip portion is provided and it has an exterior portion extending upwardly from the drink well base a outer lip portion and an interior portion sloping downwardly and inwardly from the outer lip portion to lower end portions . A drink well base for containing liquid see is provided. The drink well base has a floor extending from a peripheral side along at least some of the lower end portions . In an embodiment the floor may extend upwardly and inwardly from the peripheral side . In an embodiment the drink well base may be located above the bottom edge of the annular flanged rim and substantially below the outer lip portion . At least one drink outlet is provided. The at least one drink outlet may be defined by a first edgewall extending upward into the interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion and by an elongated second edgewall extending along an outlet portion of the drink well base in proximity to the peripheral side . In an embodiment the first edgewall may be arcuate in shape. The least one drink outlet is oriented along a surface which in an embodiment may be a planar surface see extending from the elongated second edgewall at an angle alpha in the range of from about forty degrees 40 to about ninety degrees 90 compared to a plane defined by the bottom edge of the annular flanged rim or in a any case compared to a plane defined by the centerline of the interior bead sealing portion see e.g. . In various embodiment the angle alpha may be in the range of from about fifty degrees 50 to about seventy degrees 70 . In yet further embodiments the angle alpha may be at about sixty degrees 60 .

As shown in in an embodiment it may be desirable to provide a design where the interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion slopes downwardly and in some embodiments inwardly at an angle beta in the range of from about seventy degrees 70 to almost about ninety degrees 90 provided that the angle selected allows removal from a mold in a manufacturing process. In various embodiments an angle beta in the range of from about seventy degrees 70 to about eighty five degrees 85 is provided.

Turning now to it can be seen that the annular flanged rim has an outer edge . In an embodiment the elongated second edgewall of the drink outlet is defined along a line a distance Lfrom a line tangent to the outer edge of the annular flanged rim . The line tangent to an outer edge of the annular flanged rim is orthogonal to a line having an opposing end which may be centered with respect to the elongated second edgewall of drink outlet .

As also seen in the elongated second edgewall of the drink outlet has an opening width W. In the embodiment shown in the elongated second edgewall is parallel to the line tangent to an outer edge of the annular flanged rim . In various embodiments the width Wmay be provided in a length less than or equal to about two 2 inches 5.08 cm . In various embodiments the Wmay be provided in an overall length of about one 1 inch 2.54 cm plus or minus about fifty percent 50 . In various embodiments the Wmay be provided in an overall length of about one 1 inch 2.54 cm plus or minus about twenty five percent 25 .

A similar embodiment is shown in where in a reverse side that is the underside of a lid is provided revealing an embodiment similar to that shown in but now providing a drink outlet that is formed between first sidewall and an elongated second edgewall that is in an outwardly bowed shape. Thus elongated second edgewall is curved between a first end and a second end .

As seen in the drink outlet as defined by the portion of surface that matches the drink outlet is spaced apart from but adjacent to the interior bead sealing portion of drink through lid so that the drink outlet fills with liquid above drink well base along floor promptly when a beverage container utilizing the drink through lid is turned from a vertical position. As further illustrated in with respect to lid in an embodiment the radially outermost point Rof first edgewall of drink outlet may be spaced a distance S of about zero point three 0.3 inches 0.762 cm or less from a reference plane Plocated at the interior bead sealing portion of lid . . As also may be appreciated with reference to in an embodiment a drink through lid may be provided wherein a total open passageway area of the one or more drink outlets amounting to at least zero point zero six 0.06 square inches 0.3871 square centimeters is provided at a location within zero point five 0.5 inches 1.27 cm radially inward from of a reference line Plocated at the interior bead sealing portion. In some embodiments it may be appropriate to provide all of the total of open passageway area of the one or more drink outlets within a location between a reference plane Plocated at said interior bead sealing portion and a location not more than zero point five 0.5 inches 1.27 cm radially inward therefrom. In various embodiments a drink through lid may be provided wherein at least some open area of the one or more drink outlets is located between a reference plane Plocated at the interior bead sealing portion and a location not more than zero point four 0.4 inches 1.016 cm radially inward therefrom. In various embodiments the floor of the drink well base may include low point in the floor that provides a liquid drain which may be located at elongated second edgewall . In an embodiment a liquid drain may be located at the radially inward point Rof the liquid outlet and co terminus therewith. In various embodiments the floor may slope at least in part in an outward direction toward interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion .

As shown in and in the outer lip portion of the hollow raised lip portion may have a height H in the range of from about four tenths of an inch 0.4 inches 1.016 cm to about nine tenths of an inch 0.9 inches 2.286 cm above the elongated second edgewall of the drink outlet which in an embodiment may be at the radially innermost edge Rof the drink outlet . Also a vertical surface distance V may be set for the interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion in the range of from about zero point two four 0.24 inches 0.6096 cm to about zero point six nine 0.69 inches 1.7526 cm . See vertical surface distance V and related structures as shown in below with respect to like features of lid . In an embodiment one or more drink outlets may be provided. In an embodiment one or more drink outlets may define a total open area in the range of from about zero point zero six 0.06 square inches 0.3871 square centimeters to about zero point two five 0.25 square inches 1.613 square centimeters . In an embodiment the one or more drink outlets may define a total open area in the range of from about zero point zero seven five 0.075 square inches 0.4839 square centimeters to about zero point two 0.2 square inches 1.2903 square centimeters . In an embodiment the one or more drink outlets may define a total open area in the range of from about zero point one three 0.13 square inches 0.8387 square centimeters to about zero point two 0.2 square inches 1.2903 square centimeters . In an embodiment the one or more drink outlets may define a total open area of about zero point two 0.2 square inches 1.2903 square centimeters or less.

As illustrated in the drink through lid may have a drink well base that is sized and shaped to contain a selected liquid volume LV of liquid . In an embodiment the drink well base may be sized to contain a liquid volume LV of about zero point one six 0.16 fluid ounces 4.73 milliliters or more when measured with the lid tipped at a forty five degree 45 angle theta and the liquid outlet being sealed closed and the lid being filled with liquid to the limits of the outer lip portion .

In an embodiment a drink through lid may further include a vapor dome . The vapor dome may include a raised sidewall extending upwardly from the base . In an embodiment the vapor dome may be at least partially arcuately shaped between first and second sidewall ends. An interior vapor dome wall having an upper end and a lower end may be provided and extending across the lid from first to second sidewall ends and a vapor dome face extending between the raised sidewall and the upper end .

In an embodiment a drink through lid having a vapor dome further includes at least one vapor vent well . Each vapor vent well may include at least one vapor directing passageway therein. In an embodiment a drink through lid may include two or more vapor vent wells . In various embodiments the lid may include a downwardly extending generally trough shaped walls provided in a v shaped configuration and extending transversely across the drink through lid . In an embodiment a v shaped wall may be provided oriented parallel to the elongated second edgewall of the drink outlet . In an embodiment one or more vapor passageways may be provided through downwardly extending v shaped wall . In an embodiment at least one of the one or more vapor passageways may be oriented to project vapors away from the drink outlet .

Turning now to yet another embodiment for a drink through lid is provided. The drink through lid includes a downwardly extending wall that extends transversely across the drink through lid . In an embodiment a trough shaped wall may be provided such as in a V shape or U shape oriented parallel to an elongated second edgewall of a drink outlet . A slit of length LS is formed along a line which in an embodiment may be a partial chord line extending in a chord like direction but not extending all the way to the edges of the base with respect to a circular shaped base as indicated in . The slit is provided between first end and second end and along a first edge and a second edge formed by wall .

As seen in a baffle may be provided. The baffle may be provided in a generally trapezoidal shaped configuration having an overall width WB complementary to length LS for insertion downward through said slit . In one configuration before the baffle is inserted in lid as illustrated in the slit forms a first stable condition wherein the first edge and second edge are urged together to substantially prevent liquid leakage therethrough. In another configuration as seen in a second stable condition may be provided wherein the first edge and said second edge are urged toward the respective first and second sides of baffle to substantially prevent liquid leakage therethrough.

In an embodiment as seen in the baffle may further include edge locks and . The edge locks and are sized and shaped for locking engagement with first and second ends of the slit . In an embodiment as seen in the edge locks and may include notches in the baffle .

In an embodiment as also seen in the baffle may include a lower end . The lower end may include an upwardly extending lower baffle wall . The lower baffle wall may define in combination with beverage container a liquid passageway above bottom of beverage container as seen in .

As seen in the beverage container may include an inner sidewalls that are generally frusto conical in shape and in such an embodiment the baffle may include a first side and a second side that are complementary in shape with the beverage container inner sidewalls . In an embodiment first side and second side of baffle are shaped and sized for sealing engagement with the beverage container inner sidewalls .

The baffle divides the beverage container into at least a first chamber Cand a second chamber C and in such a configuration the baffle is shaped and positioned to allow liquid in the beverage container to flow freely between each of the chambers Cand C using liquid passageway as seen in at reference arrows and . The baffle is effectively sealed with the drink through lid at said slit and positioned to prevent vapor Vwithin the first chamber Cthat is between the drink through lid and liquid in the beverage container from flowing to the second chamber C. In this manner associated with each of the chambers Cand C is at least one vapor directing passageway s and or at least one vapor passageway s . Further vapor directing passageways and or vapor passageways are disposed in the lid on either side of the baffle . Thus when the beverage container contains liquid and is tipped see to allow liquid to flow out of the drink outlet as indicated by reference arrow vapor Vwithin the first chamber Cis forced out of one or more of the at least one vapor passageways as indicated by reference arrow while air outside of the beverage container is simultaneously drawn into the second chamber Cthrough one or more of the at least one vapor directing passageways as indicated by reference arrow . Likewise when the beverage container is tipped down after drinking is completed as shown in vapor Vexits the second chamber Cthrough one or more of the vapor directing passageways as indicated by reference arrow . As liquid retreats in the first chamber C outside air passes through vapor passageway s to replenish the vapor Vwithin the first chamber C as indicated by reference arrow . In various embodiments the at least one vapor passageways may be oriented to project vapors initially in a direction that is predominantly horizontal in relation a plane along a centerline of said interior bead sealing portion .

In various embodiments either or both of the lid or baffle may be made from thermoplastic material. In an embodiment such thermoplastic material may be suitable for vacuum forming of the lid . In an embodiment baffle may be provided in a selected composition of paper or paperboard.

In various embodiments as disclosed herein a drink through lid or design is disclosed herein that provides a drinking experience to a user much the same as if the user were drinking from an open container such as a coffee cup rather than using various prior art disposable drink through lids for drinking cups. Improved user interface is accomplished by selecting the size and shape of the drink outlet in combination with providing a suitable size and shape of the drink well base floor shape so that when a beverage cup is tipped in normal drinking fashion the liquid gently hits the user s lips thus providing a soft feel to the user.

In one aspect a design is provided that when used for drinking provides a wide relatively slow moving liquid surface when the liquid approaches the user s lips. In an embodiment this is accomplished by providing a liquid outlet that provides a fountain effect caused by the vector of the liquid emerging from the drink outlet. The fountain effect is powered by the head pressure created when the liquid inside the container is at a higher elevation than the drink outlet. Because the height of the liquid is determined by angle that the beverage cup is tilted the more that the beverage cup is tilted the higher the height of the liquid as compared to the drink outlet and thus the more hydraulic head. Of course the rate of change of head pressure and the duration that the head pressure is at a particular point determines how fast the drink well floor fills with liquid. The fountain effect is largely determined by the location orientation and sizing of the drink outlet which determines the origin and direction of the fill vector in relation to the user s lip and the time required for drink well filling. With respect the size of the drink outlet in an embodiment the origin and direction of the fill vector provides an emerging liquid fountain that is predominantly vertical when the beverage cup is in a tipped drinking orientation. Thus the size of the drink outlet determines how far the liquid fountain projects when the beverage cup is tipped by a user for drinking.

With respect to proper sizing of a drink outlet if the drink outlet opening itself is too small the drink well base does not fill fast enough which may result in the user overtipping the beverage cup . Too small of a drink outlet may also result in a liquid fountain that is too high in that such a fountain may shoot up and hit the user s lip in an unsatisfying way. Too large of a drink outlet can sacrifice the splash and spill protection provided by the lid . The key is to provide a drink opening which is large enough so that given the tip rate of a beverage cup by a user a results in the filling of a drink well base to the point that liquid reaches the user s lip fast enough so that the user does not over tip and create excessive head pressure and b results in the filling of the drink well base with a liquid having a surface that is relatively calm flat rather than turbulent when the liquid reaches the user s lip. Thus when the beverage cup is tipped the vertical component of the liquid fountain provides liquid that quickly emerges but then spreads out promptly in the drink well base so that as the drink well base fills the leading edge of liquid that is the edge closest to the user s lips spreads out widely and slowly toward a user s lip.

Further it has been found that selecting an optimum shape for the drink well base and the interaction of the drink well base with the drink outlet may also provide benefits to enhance the drinking experience of a user. For purposes of example only and not by way of limitation in an embodiment it has been found that a suitable shape for a drink well base may be provided as a generally wedge shaped volume structured for example in much the same shape as a segment of a small orange or similar fruit laid out so that the center of the segment is across the lid and one side of the segment is horizontal and the other size extends angularly downward from the center of the segment toward the bottom of the drink outlet to provide an arcuate side shape approximating the interior portion shape of a raised hollow lip portion of the drink through lid . Such shape can be easily envisioned in where liquid is shown along the interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion . In contrast to many prior art patents which have just a lower tangent edge of a drink outlet such as of a circle or of an ovoid shape at the lower reaches of a drink well experimentation during development of the drink through lid or as disclosed herein reveals that better drinking experience results are achieved if at least a portion of an elongated bottom i.e. an elongated second edgewall of a drink outlet is provided along the lower reaches of the drink well base rather than merely as a tangent portion as provided in certain prior art patents.

Attention is directed to wherein different embodiments for the shape and size of a drink well base are provided. In a drink well base is provided having a peripheral side that ends at a vertical level at or about the centerline of the interior bead sealing portion and a drink outlet is provided. In an embodiment the centerline may be parallel to a plane defined by the bottom edge of an annular flanged rim . In a drink well base is provided having a peripheral side that ends at a vertical level well below the centerline of the interior bead sealing portion and a drink outlet is provided. In such an embodiment the peripheral side of the drink well base should be no further than zero point five 0.5 inches 1.27 cm below the centerline of the interior bead sealing portion . In a drink well base is provided having a peripheral side that ends at a vertical level above the centerline of the interior bead sealing portion and a drink outlet is provided.

Additionally it may be noted that the volume of liquid necessary to fill the wedge shaped space in the drink well below the user s lip may vary as the amount of liquid in the beverage cup varies. In various embodiments a drink well may be sized and shaped to allow sufficient liquid to be contained therein so that the user can take satisfying slurps or drinks of different sizes.

As may be seen by reference to in order to provide the above described advantages in a thermoformed drink through lid an embodiment has been developed in which minimizes the amount of liquid that may become trapped during use in a drink through lid design having a hollow raised lip portion. In one aspect this may be accomplished by minimizing or at least optimizing the distance between an inner sidewall of the outer lip portion of the hollow raised lip portion and the radially outermost edge Rof a drink outlet . In another yet related aspect this may be accomplished by minimizing or at least optimizing the generally horizontal distance between the inner sidewall of a beverage cup and an inside wall of interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion . In an embodiment such dimensions may provided in combination with a drink well that is sufficiently deep and or a hollow raised lip portion that is sufficiently high that liquid flowing into a drink well from a drink outlet does not immediately impact a user s lips as the liquid emerges from drink outlet . In another aspect there should be adequate space below the upper edge of the drink outlet to allow a big enough pool of liquid to form in the drink well to create a natural open top cup like drinking experience. Thus in an embodiment by a extending the outer lip portion of the hollow raised lip portion outward to allow for both a drink outlet and space for a user s lips above a liquid level in a drink well b by making the interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion of a beverage cup or rather steep downward and in some embodiments slightly inwardly sloping but still in a manufacturable configuration for a thermoforming processes and c by providing a drink outlet that at least in part extends upward into the interior portion of hollow raised lip portion a novel drink through lid design has been provided. With respect to dimensions D D and D as indicated in those of skill in the art will understand that such dimensions will vary depending upon the size of a beverage container on which the lid is to be placed as in many retail stores selling hot and cold beverages sizes such as small medium and large or for example tall grande and vente may be provided with similar or differing dimensions depending on the policy of a particular retail store.

Attention is now directed to wherein further details for structure of an exemplary drink through lid are provided at a scale which enables better visualization of a suitable method for fabrication of such drink through lids . Drink through lid is partially depicted showing the interior bead sealing portion in place in a snap fit fashion see interference dimension Din over a bead of a beverage cup . For ease of manufacturing lid may be provided with an inwardly protruding shoulder of a predetermined width along top face . In an embodiment the width along top face may be about one tenth of an inch 0.1 0.254 cm or less. As seen by reference arrows and and connected by line as if provided by a cutting die a cut made for example by use of a vertically moving hardened metallic die downward along planes represented at reference arrows and can be utilized to remove excess thermoplastic material and thus define edges to provide drink outlets . Such stamping of drink through openings is a known practice subsequent to vacuum forming of thermoplastic material. However the present design simplifies the manufacturing process for a drink through lid by use of the inwardly protruding shoulder so that the thickness of a necessary cut through thermoplastic material is minimized. By provision of an inwardly protruding shoulder the full benefit of the design provided herein can be easily realized and yet such lids can be produced in large scale manufacturing operations.

It should also be noted in that an angle alpha is indicated for example as between plane and the plane as noted for the orientation in an embodiment of drink outlet . Although the location of angle alpha is slightly offset when the inwardly protruding shoulder is utilized the reader should refer to the discussion set forth elsewhere herein as regards the particulars of such angle alpha .

Next attention is directed to wherein an embodiment that includes a series of drink outlets from O through O wherein N is a positive integer. As a further example a series of drink outlets may be provided in a series of drink outlets from O O O O through O wherein in N is a positive integer. In drink outlets O O O are provided. Associated with each of the drink outlets O O O O through O wherein in N is a positive integer for example are a plurality of segments of Wcomprising W W W W W wherein n is a positive integer. Also seen in is the use of a vent passageway which has an oval outlet shape.

Attention is now directed to which illustrate an embodiment for a drink through lid for a cup . provides a top view taken looking down at the lid and provides a bottom perspective looking up at the lower side of the lid . As seen in lid has a base with rim having a bottom edge and an interior bead sealing portion . In an embodiment rim may be annular in shape. The base is sized and shaped to sealingly engage an open end of beverage container not shown in this figure but often circular which may be defined by a bead on the beverage container in the manner described above. A hollow raised lip portion is provided and it has an exterior portion extending upwardly from the drink well base an outer lip portion and an interior portion sloping downwardly and inwardly from the outer lip portion to lower end portions . A drink well base for containing liquid see is provided. The drink well base has a floor extending from a peripheral side along at least some of the lower end portions . At least one drink outlet is provided. The at least one drink outlet may be defined by a first edgewall extending upward into the interior portion of the hollow raised lip portion and by an elongated second edgewall extending along an outlet portion of the drink well base in proximity to the peripheral side .

As seen in the drink through lid may include a downwardly extending wall that extends transversely across the drink through lid . In an embodiment a trough shaped wall may be provided as in a downwardly directed V shape or U shape. In an embodiment the trough shaped wall may be provided in a chord like configuration. In an embodiment the trough shaped wall may be provided with first and second portions extending out radially. In an embodiment such radially extending portions may be aligned as if in a partial chord line extending in a chord like direction but not extending all the way to the edges of the base with respect to a circular shaped base .

In an embodiment a slit may be provided between a first end and a second end and along a first edge and a second edge formed by wall . Also an opening may be provided in wall as defined by first edgewall in first edge to define a first vent portion and a second edgewall in second edge that defines a second vent portion. Together the first vent portion and second vent portion as provided by first edgewall and second edgewall in wall allow for flow of vapors through the lid.

Various embodiments may be provided using various types of plastics such as thermoplastics. In various embodiments the combination of a lid and beverage cup may be disposable in that they are intended only for a single use. For such uses very inexpensive thermoplastic materials may be suitable for construction of the lids . And in such uses a disposable baffle manufactured in paper or paperboard may be utilized. Other than the exemplary structural techniques just taught above for facilitating manufacture of lid designs as taught herein the processes for manufacturing such goods are well known in the art and thus will not be further explained herein. However those skilled in the art will recognize that various embodiments may be manufactured using other processes and consequently the invention is not limited to any particular method of manufacture.

In the foregoing description for purposes of explanation numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for the design of a disposable lid for use in combination with a beverage container that will provide a more natural drinking experience and for an enhanced disposable lid that further includes and enables use of a disposable baffle to assure that aroma reaches the nose of the drinker. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further for descriptive purposes various relative terms may be used. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. And various actions or activities in any method described herein may have been described as multiple discrete activities in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the present invention. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such activities are necessarily order dependent. In particular certain operations may not necessarily need to be performed precisely in the order of presentation. And in different embodiments of the invention one or more activities may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other activities may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase in an embodiment or in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

From the foregoing it can be understood by persons skilled in the art that a novel beverage container lid and a novel baffle for use with a beverage container lid have been described herein. Although only certain specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described there is no intent to limit this invention by these embodiments. Rather the invention is to be defined by the appended claims and their equivalents when taken in combination with the description.

Importantly the aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Therefore the embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. As such this disclosure is intended to cover the structures described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures.

Numerous modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

