---

title: Providing content items based on user affinity in a social network environment
abstract: A system and method for measuring user affinity in a social network environment is provided. One or more activities performed by a user associated with a social network environment are monitored. A relationship associated with the one or more activities is identified. An affinity for one or more objects associated with the social network environment is then determined based on the one or more activities and the relationship.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183574&OS=09183574&RS=09183574
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09183574
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150116
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 846 890 filed Mar. 18 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed Aug. 11 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 402 094 all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to social networking and more particularly to systems and methods for measuring user affinity in a social network environment.

Conventionally a user of a social networking website connects with other users by providing information about the user to the social network website for access by other users. For example a user may post contact information background information current job position hobbies and so forth. Other users may review this information by browsing through profiles or entering keyword s into an internal search engine that searches the social networking site for profiles containing the keyword s .

Recently social networking websites have developed systems for better connecting users to the content most relevant to each particular user. For example users may be grouped together in one or more groupings based on any common factor listed in their profile such as geographical location employer job type music preferences and so forth. Parties within and outside of the social networking website utilize these groupings to target information that would be of interest to that particular community. For example a social networking site may display banner ads advertising a concert too all users who list the performing band on their profile. As social networking has grown more popular however users and the information they provide on their profiles has greatly increased. Consequently users are often inundated with information that is not necessarily the most relevant to a particular user.

The present invention provides a system and method for measuring user affinity in a social network environment. One or more activities performed by a user associated with a social network environment are monitored. A relationship associated with the one or more activities is identified. An affinity for one or more objects associated with the social network environment is then determined based on the one or more activities and the relationship.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A system and method for measuring user affinity in a social network environment is provided. The user affinity may be measured by utilizing relationships the user has with other users. The user affinity may also be measured by monitoring the user s interaction with content such as stories headlines or other user s profiles and or the user s interaction with other users directly such as emails to other users. The user affinity may be utilized to generate media for the user about other users such as stories about other users with which the user has a relationship.

The social network provider may comprise any user or entity that provides social networking services communication services dating services and so forth. For example the social network provider may host a website that allows two or more users such as the user at the user device to communicate with one another via the website. In one instance a first user associated with the user device may communicate with one or more second users associated with one or more second user devices via a social networking website associated with the social network provider . The social networking website offers the user an opportunity to connect or reconnect with the one or more second users who attended for example the same university as the user.

An affinity engine is coupled to the social network provider . The affinity engine utilizes data such as data about one or more users to measure the users affinity for one or more items of media or any other content. According to some embodiments the user device may be directly coupled to the affinity engine . According to other embodiments the affinity engine comprises a module associated with the social network provider .

Referring now to a schematic diagram of an exemplary social network provider such as the social network provider discussed in is shown. A profile database is provided for storing data associated with each of the users such as the user associated with the user device . When a user subscribes to services provided by the social network provider a user profile may be generated for the user. For example the user may select privacy settings provide contact information or group other users according to one or more categories. When the user adds additional information to the user profile such as adding additional contacts the user profile in the profile database may be updated with the information added. The user profile may be stored modified added and so forth to any storage medium.

According to some embodiments the user profile is created outside of the social network environment and provided to or accessed by the social network provider . Alternatively the profile database may be located remotely and accessed by the social network provider .

The social network provider includes a communications interface for communicating with the users such as via the user device described herein over the network . The user device communicates various types of information such as privacy settings selections groupings of other users and so forth to the social network provider via the communications interface . Any type of communications interface is within the scope of various embodiments.

A monitoring module tracks one or more user activities on the social networking website. For example the monitoring module can track user interaction with one or more items of media such as news stories other users profiles email to other users chat rooms provided via the social network provider and so forth. Any type of user activity can be tracked or monitored via the monitoring module . The information people groups stories and so forth with which the user interacts may be represented by one or more objects according to exemplary embodiments.

A relationship the user has with one or more other users may be defined according to the user s profile and or according to other users with which the monitoring module detects user interaction. For example a particular user may define a relationship with his wife or a friend in the particular user s profile. However a relationship may also be defined by the social network provider when the particular user interacts with one or more other users that share a common interest in a musical band for instance. Further a strength of the relationship defined in the particular user s profile such as wife or friend may be updated or adjusted according to how often the particular user interacts with the wife or the friend for example.

A display engine GUI may also be provided by the social network provider . The display engine GUI displays the one or more items of media profile information and so forth to the users. The users can interact with the social network provider via the display engine GUI . For example the users can select privacy settings access their own user profile access other users information available via the social network provider and so forth via the display engine GUI .

A relationship database is provided for storing relationship data about each user. The user can specify relationships with one or more other users via the user profile or by any other means. The user can assign categories groups networks and so forth to the one or more other users with which the user has a relationship. The relationship for example may specify that a user is a family member schoolmate ex girlfriend and so forth. Any type of relationship may be specified.

According to some embodiments the social network provider may determine a relationship for the user. For example if the user establishes communications with another user interested in Woody Allen movies the social network provider may assign the relationship of fellow Woody Allen movie fan. The social network provider may inquire whether or not the user wants to add the other user as a fellow Woody Allen fan in one instance. Alternatively the social network provider may utilize a common interest in Woody Allen movies as a variable to measure user affinity without inquiring whether the user wants to add the other user to the user s profile according to some embodiments.

A relationship may be assigned based on the user s interaction with other users or with any type of content. The user may have more than one relationship with other users or with content according to exemplary embodiments. For example the user s brother qualifies as one type of relationship while the fact that the user s brother attended the same university as the user may qualify as another relationship. Any number of relationships may be established for each user and or for each activity performed by the user in the social network environment.

According to exemplary embodiments one or more networks may be provided for each user. For example the user may have a network comprised of people grouped according to a university attended a network comprised of people grouped according to the user s geographical location of residence a network comprised of people grouped according to a common field of work a network comprised of people grouped according to a particular business and so forth. As discussed herein a common network may establish a relationship between the user and other users in the common network for example.

Any type of network may be provided by the social network provider . In other words a network may comprise people grouped according to any type of category such as various social networks described herein like friends geographical location and so forth. The user may specify the networks the categories subcategories and so forth and or the networks the categories the subcategories and so on may be predetermined by the social network provider . The networks the categories the subcategories and so forth may comprise a relationship with the user as discussed herein but do not necessarily comprise the only relationship the user has with the other users.

Although the social network provider is described as being comprised of various components the profile database the communications interface the monitoring module the display engine GUI and the relationship database fewer or more components may comprise the social network provider and still fall within the scope of various embodiments.

An affinity assignment component can access data from the relationship database and from the user activity analyzer component to assign an affinity rating and or weight to subject matter other users and so forth for each user. For example a particular user s wife is assigned a rating based on a spousal relationship with the particular user while the particular user s brother receives a different rating based on a sibling relationship. The user activity may be weighted differently from the user relationship. For example the rating assigned to a user activity may comprise sixty percent 60 of the overall affinity while the relationship associated with the user activity comprises the other forty percent 40 of the overall affinity determined for the user. The weights may be static or the weights may change according to a type of relationship a type of user activity and so forth.

Based on the one or more user activities and the relationships an overall affinity for past present or future content can be determined by the affinity assignment component . According to exemplary embodiments a particular user activity is assigned both a rating and a weight while a relationship associated with the particular user activity is assigned a rating and a correlating weight e.g. so the weights total 100 . The ratings may be combined according to their weights to determine an overall affinity for the user. For example a particular user may receive content associated with the particular user s wife as a lower priority than content associated with the particular user s brother because although the particular user s wife has a higher rated relationship the particular user accesses content about his brother more often. Depending upon the weights assigned to the activities and relationships for the particular user the overall affinity may be determined to be higher for content about the user s brother than for content about the user s wife in one instance. Any type of variables such as time since information was accessed frequency of access relationship to person about which information was accessed relationship to person sharing common interests in information accessed relationship with the actual information accessed and so forth may be considered when assigning ratings and weights to the activities performed by the user and the relationships associated with the activities.

According to exemplary embodiments an overall affinity for the user for each user subject matter type of content and so forth may be established. The overall affinity may change based on continued monitoring of the user s activities or the overall affinity may be utilized to establish ratings for activities and or relationships.

The weights and or the ratings may vary for the one or more user activities and for the relationships associated with the one or more user activities as discussed herein. According to exemplary embodiments a user activity is assigned an initial rating that is adjusted according to the rating and the affinity weight assigned to the relationship data associated with the user activity. Any type of process may be employed for assigning combining averaging and so forth the ratings and the weights assigned to the one or more user activities and the relationships associated with the one or more user activities. As discussed herein user activities may be utilized as feedback for adjusting ratings and weights assigned to the user activities and or the relationships associated with the user activities. For example the user s relationship with an existing girlfriend may rate higher than a relationship rating with the user s ex girlfriend but the affinity weight for the ex girlfriend may be higher based on the number of times the user has accessed one or more items of media or other content about the ex girlfriend in the past month.

Any type of overall affinity may be determined utilizing any number of variables representative of activities and relationships such as statistical metrics long term averages of user interactions short term averages of user interactions decay factors e.g. the rate at which values associated with user interactions erodes through time time feedback and so forth. The ratings and weights may be continuously updated based on continued tracking of the one or more user activities by the monitoring module . Any rating weight and so forth may be assigned to each variable that is considered in determining an overall affinity. As discussed herein the overall affinity may be established for various types of content other users categories of content such as parties and so forth.

The overall affinity determined by the affinity assignment component may be utilized for providing various types of information such as media to the users. For example the user may be presented with updated photos from a photo album from another user for which the user has a high overall affinity stories about another user for which the user has a high overall affinity or details about a party hosted by another user for which the user has a high overall affinity. The overall affinity may be utilized to generate and or present any type of data to a particular user.

A media generator component may optionally be provided as part of the affinity engine . The media generator component utilizes the affinity determined by the affinity assignment component to select and or generate one or more items of media such as stories. For example the media generator component can generate a story for a User A about a User B breaking up with a User C based on a high affinity that User A has for User B and or User C. The story in this instance is unique to User A since the relationship that User A has with User B and or User C may be different than the relationship a User D may have with User B and or User C for example. Any type of media stories content and so forth may be generated and or provided to the user based on the affinity.

The affinity assignment component may also be utilized to assign an order to the media the stories the content and so forth. For example the story about User B breaking up with User C may be rated lower than a story about User A s brother having a baby and accordingly the story about User B breaking up with User C may appear below the story about User A s brother having a baby on a display page associated with User A. Any type data may be assigned an order according to the affinity determined for the user based on the user s past or present activities and the relationships associated with the past or the present activities. According to some embodiments the media may be generated and or ordered according to a prediction of future user activities.

Furthermore some user interactions may be assigned a higher weight and or rating than other user interactions which may affect the overall affinity. For example if a user emails another user the weight or the rating for the interaction may be higher than if the user simply looks at the profile page for the other user. Any type of weights or ratings may be assigned to user interactions relationships and so forth. Further any type of formula or process for determining the affinity may be employed by the affinity assignment component .

According to exemplary embodiments a user can utilize privacy setting selections to ensure that media regarding particular users is not included on the display page associated with the user. Alternatively the user can request from the social network provider that the user not receive data about particular users. Any type of privacy settings or requests may be provided by the user for blocking news content and so forth about particular users.

A first story entitled Dana joined the group Who is Myke Jones was rated highest according to affinity. As discussed herein an overall affinity may have been assigned to each story appearing on the display page based on the user s interaction with other content and the user s relationships associated with the user s interaction with the other content. The stories are then displayed in an order according to the affinity. For example the first story is assigned the highest order based on the affinity determined for the user for content and or other users included in the first story while a second story entitled Anthony joined the group Pugs Yes please is assigned the second highest order based on the affinity determined for the user with respect to the content and or the other users included in the second story and so forth.

Although the affinity is determined based on the one or more user activities within the social network environment according to some embodiments user activity outside of the social network environment may also be considered in determining overall user affinity for content and or other users. The relationships the user has with other users affects the weights and or the ratings of the one or more user activities since the one or more user activities have varying significance for each user according to the one or more relationships associated with each activity the user performs as discussed herein. For example if a User A posts comments to a display page associated with User B who is a friend of User A the activity may be assigned a higher rating or weight than if User A posts comments to a display page associated with User C who is a co worker of User A. As discussed herein the relationships may be obtained from categories groups and so forth that the user assigns to other users or from any other information the social network provider obtains about the user.

Referring now to a flow diagram of an exemplary process for measuring user affinity in a social network environment is illustrated. At step one or more activities performed by a user associated with a social network environment are monitored. For example the monitoring module associated with the social network provider can monitor the one or more activities performed by the user. The one or more activities may include emails viewing of user profiles viewing of users photos sending messages to other user and so forth as discussed herein.

At step a relationship associated with the one or more activities is determined. As discussed herein the relationship database can provide one or more relationships the user has with other users or content with which the user is interacting. For example if the user accesses a profile for a User A the relationship database can provide the data that the relationship the user has with User A is that User A is the user s girlfriend. Accordingly the relationship associated with the user accessing the profile for User A is that the user is accessing the user s girlfriend s profile. More than one relationship may be associated with the one or more user activities. For example the user s girlfriend may also cohabitate with the user and thus the relationship database may indicate a cohabitation relationship exists as well.

As discussed herein relationships may each be assigned different weights and ratings. Similarly the one or more user activities such as user interactions with other users or content may also be assigned varying weights and ratings.

At step an affinity for one or more objects associated with the social network environment is determined based on the one or more activities and the relationship. The one or more objects may include other users subject matter categories and so forth. The affinity may be based on an affinity weight and rating assigned to the one or more user activities and the relationship s associated with the one or more user activities. The one or more user activities may comprise emailing one or more other users viewing profiles for one or more other users viewing content posted by or for one or more other users viewing content posted for the user himself and so forth. Any type of activities may be monitored and utilized to determine the affinity.

As discussed herein one or more items of media such as stories photos and so forth may be generated or optionally provided based on the user affinity. According to exemplary embodiments the affinity is updated according to the user interactions with content displayed to the user as a result of the affinity. For example if the fifth story displayed to the user is a story about the user s best friend s ex girlfriend and the user accesses the story first the relationship between the user and the best friend and or the best friend s ex girlfriend may be assigned a higher rating. Accordingly future stories about the user s best friend and or the best friend s ex girlfriend may be ranked higher than other stories.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. For example any of the elements associated with the affinity engine may employ any of the desired functionality set forth hereinabove. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments.

