---

title: Anode materials for lithium ion batteries
abstract: An electrochemical device includes a composite material of general Formula (1-x)J-(x)Q wherein: J is a metal carbon alloy of formula SnSiMetMet′C; Q is a metal oxide of formula AMM′O; and wherein: A is Li, Na, or K; M and M′ are individually Ge, Mo, Al, Ga, As, Sb, Te, Ti, Ta, Zr, Ca, Mg, Sr, Ba, Li, Na, K, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Nb, Rt, Ru or Cd; Met and Met′ are individually Ge, Mo, Al, Ga, As, Sb, Te, Ti, Ta, Zr, Ca, Mg, Sr, Ba, Li, Na, K, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Nb, Rt, Ru or Cd; 0<x<1; γ is 0, 1, or 2; 0<α≦1; 0≦α′≦1; β is 0.5, 1, 2, or 3; 0<t≦5; 1≦w≦5; 0<w′≦5; 1≦z≦5; and 0<z′≦5.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09620773&OS=09620773&RS=09620773
owner: UCHICAGO ARGONNE, LLC
number: 09620773
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150514
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 235 138 filed on Sep. 16 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 388 904 filed on Oct. 1 2010 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference for any and all purposes.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Government and UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

The following description is provided to assist the understanding of the reader. None of the information provided or references cited is admitted to be prior art to the present invention.

Lithium ion batteries for electric and hybrid vehicles for example refer to Battery Test Manual for Plug in Hybrid Electric Vehicles Prepared for the U.S. Department of Energy Idaho National Laboratory March 2008 require large electrode capacities and long durability. Development of new anode materials with higher capacity has been one focus of the research.

In lithium ion secondary batteries a carbon material such as non graphitizable carbon or graphite shows a relatively high capacity 372 mAhg and good cycle characteristics. However the demand for higher energy density and other characteristics has led to further research in increasing the capacity of the anode beyond that of graphite.

Significant work has been carried out on non carbon based anodes such as those based upon metal alloys and intermetallics. In the case of metal alloys the metal is electrochemically alloyed with lithium and the resulting alloy is then susceptible to reversible lithium insertion and de insertion in a battery environment. High capacity anodes using a SnCoC tin cobalt carbon alloy have been developed for example refer to U.S. Pat. No. 2009 0075173 . However Sn alloys e.g. SnCoC where the 3 3 and 4 represent molar ratios and in some examples may be expressed as SnCoC have a theoretically limited capacity of about 728 mAh g and a practical capacity of less than 400 mAh g. In the SnCoC alloys the tin and carbon are the active materials and the cobalt plays a role in buffering volume expansion of an electrochemical cell during the lithium insertion and de insertion processes. In terms of capacity the incorporation of a small amount of silicon which has a theoretical maximum capacity of 4200 mAhg refer to K. Amezawa N. Yamamoto Y. Tomii and Y. Ito J. Electrochem. Soc. 1998 145 2751 can increase the capacity but the amount of silicon which may be added is limited due the large volume expansion and the poor cycleability. Silicon oxides SiO such as SiO SiO or carbon coated SiOare known to deliver a high capacity but like silicon these materials can crack easily due to volume changes during charging and discharging cycles. As a result active material particles can be electronically isolated thereby decreasing the battery capacity and cycle life.

It has now been found that metal composites of a metal oxide and a metal carbon alloy can buffer the volume expansion associated with lithium alloying of metal oxides. The metal composites minimize the poor conductivity effect of LiO forming during the conversion reaction of the metal oxide with lithium. Good cycling performance is observed with the material prepared by the mixing of tin cobalt carbon alloys and a metal oxide material.

In one aspect a composite material is provided having general Formula 1 x J x Q where J is a metal carbon alloy of formula SnSiMetMet C Q is a metal oxide of formula AMM O where A is Li Na or K M M Met and Met are individually Ge Mo Al Ga As Sb Te Ti Ta Zr Ca Mg Sr Ba Li Na K V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Nb Rt Ru or Cd 0

In another aspect a process of preparing any of the composite materials above is provided. In some embodiments at least part of the anode active material layer is formed by one or more methods such as vapor phase deposition spraying firing and liquid phase deposition. In other embodiments at least part of the anode active material layer is formed by method used in powder metallurgy by molten methods utilizing an arc melting furnace a high frequency induction heater or the like. In some embodiments the molten material may be cooled and the cooled material may be pulverized. In some embodiments the molten metal may be quickly cooled by methods such as single roll quenching twin roll quenching gas atomizing water atomizing centrifugal atomizing or the like to obtain a powder. In some embodiments the molten material may be solidified by the single roll and or twin roll quenching and then the solidified material may be pulverized. Mechanical alloying and gas atomizing may also be used according to other embodiments.

In another aspect a process is provided for preparing any of the above composite materials. In some embodiments at least part of the anode active material layer is formed by mechanical alloying or by gas atomizing.

In another aspect an electrochemical device includes any of the above composite materials. In such embodiments the electrochemical device may be a lithium secondary battery lithium air battery lithium sulfur battery lithium selenium battery or lithium selenium sulfur battery.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the following drawings and the detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

In one aspect a composite material is provided. Such composite materials may be used as electrodes in electrochemical cells. For example the composite materials may be used as anode materials. The composite material has general Formula 1 x J x Q. In the general formula J is a metal carbon alloy of formula SnSiMetMet C. In the general formula Q is a metal oxide of formula AMM O. Accordingly the composite has a formula of 1 x SnSiMetMet C x AMM O. In the above formulas A is Li Na or K M M Met and Met are individually Ge Mo Al Ga As Sb Te Ti Ta Zr Ca Mg Sr Ba Li Na K V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Nb Rh Ru or Cd 0

The metal oxide Q has generally formula AMM O. In the formula A may be Li Na or K and is 0 1 or 2. According to some embodiments A is Li. However in other embodiments of the composition is 0 and therefore A is absent. In the formula M is present and has a value of greater than 0 to less than or equal to 1. M may be present or absent as defined by the value of which ranges from 0 to 1. In some embodiments is 0. In other embodiments both and are 0. Where both M and M are present the total of and is 1. M and M may individually be any of Ge Mo Al Ga As Sb Te Ti Si Sn Ta Zr Ca Mg Sr Ba Li Na K V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Nb Rt Ru or Cd or M and M may individually further be a combination of any two or more of these metals. In some embodiments M and M are Si Ge Sn or Mo. The amount of oxygen in the metal oxide on a molar basis is 0.5 1 2 or 3 oxygen atoms per unit. Accordingly in some embodiments is 0.5 1 2 or 3. In some embodiments Q is a metal oxide of formula MO wherein is 0.5 1 2 or 3 and M is Si Ge Sn Cu Ni Mo Al Ga As Sb Te Ti Ta Zr Ca Mg Sr Ba Li Na K V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Nb Rt Ru or Cd. In some embodiments Q is a metal oxide of formula MO is as above is 0.5 1 2 or 3 and M is Si Ge Sn or Mo. In other embodiments Q is SiO carbon coated SiO SiO GeO SnO or MoO. The metal oxide Q may be a mixture of metal oxides such that Q is actually a binary tertiary quaternary or higher order mixture of metal oxides.

In any of the embodiments in the previous two paragraphs or the following paragraphs may be 0.5. In any of the embodiments in the previous two paragraphs or the following paragraphs may be 1. In any of the embodiments in the previous two paragraphs or the following paragraphs may be 2. In any of the embodiments in the previous two paragraphs or the following paragraphs may be 3.

The metal carbon alloy J has generally formula SnSiMetMet C. In the formula Si and Met may be present or absent and values of z and w are as identified above. In the formula Sn and Met are present as evidenced by values of z and w that may range from greater than 0 to 5. In some embodiments z and w range from 1 to 5 from 2 to 4 or from 3 to 4. In other embodiments z and w are 0. The carbon is also required with values of t ranging from greater than 0 up to and including 5. Again these values are based upon molar ratios of the elements and thus the absolute value may be substantially larger for example as a multiple of 5 10 20 or more. In various embodiments Met and Met are Ge Mo Al Ga As Sb Te Ti Ta Zr Ca Mg Sr Ba Li Na K V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Nb Rt Ru or Cd or Met or Met may individually further be a combination of any two or more of these metals. In some embodiments Met and Met are individually Co Ni or Mn. In some embodiments z and w are 0 and Met is Co Ni or Mn. In other embodiments z and w are 0 and Met is Co. In other embodiments z is from 1 to 5 z is 0 Met is Co w is from 1 to 5 w is 0 and t is from 1 to 5. In some embodiments J is SnCoO e.g. SnCoO. The metal carbon alloy J may be a mixture of metal carbon alloys such that J is actually a binary tertiary quaternary or higher order mixture of metal carbon alloys.

In some embodiments of the composite material Q is a metal oxide of formula MO wherein is as above is 0.5 1 2 or 3 and M is Si Ge Sn or Mo and J is a metal carbon alloy of formula SnMetC wherein z is from 1 to 5 Met is Co w is from 1 to 5 and t is from 1 to 5. In some embodiments Q is a metal oxide of formula MO wherein is 0.5 1 2 or 3 and M is Si Ge Sn Cu Ni Mo Al Ga As Sb Te Ti Ta Zr Ca Mg Sr Ba Li Na K V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Nb Rt Ru or Cd and J is a metal carbon alloy of formula SnMetC wherein z is from 1 to 5 Met is Co w is from 1 to 5 and t is from 1 to 5. In other embodiments Q is SiO carbon coated SiO SiO GeO SnO or MoO and J is SnCoC aka SnCoC . In any of the above embodiments a may be as defined above i.e. from 0 to 1 and in some embodiments is 1.

The composite materials described herein may be used in a wide variety of applications. One such application is as an anode active material for an electrochemical cell. Such electrochemical cells may be used in batteries such as lithium ion batteries. The materials may be used with electrolytes in the battery. Thus in some embodiments an anode includes any of the above composite materials. Such anode materials are illustrated below by the examples as improving the initial charge discharge efficiency and the cycle life of a cell prepared with the composite materials as anodes. In other embodiments a battery includes a cathode and anode including any of the above composite materials and an electrolyte. In some embodiments the electrolyte is a non aqueous electrolyte which includes an aprotic solvent and a metal salt.

Where a non aqueous electrolyte is used the electrolyte includes a polar aprotic solvent and a lithium metal salt. The electrolytes are substantially non aqueous. As used herein substantially non aqueous means that the electrolytes do not contain water or if water is present it is only present at trace levels. For example where the water is present at trace levels it is present at less than 20 ppm.

A variety of solvents may be employed in the electrolyte as the polar aprotic solvent. Suitable polar aprotic solvents include liquids and gels capable of solubilizing sufficient quantities of the lithium salt and the redox shuttle so that a suitable quantity of charge can be transported from the positive electrode to negative electrode. The solvents can be used over a wide temperature range e.g. from 30 C. to 70 C. without freezing or boiling and are stable in the electrochemical range within which the cell electrodes and shuttle operate. Suitable solvents include dimethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate diethyl carbonate methyl propyl carbonate ethyl propyl carbonate dipropyl carbonate bis trifluoroethyl carbonate bis pentafluoropropyl carbonate trifluoroethyl methyl carbonate pentafluoroethyl methyl carbonate heptafluoropropyl methyl carbonate perfluorobutyl methyl carbonate trifluoroethyl ethyl carbonate pentafluoroethyl ethyl carbonate heptafluoropropyl ethyl carbonate perfluorobutyl ethyl carbonate fluorinated oligomers dimethoxyethane triglyme dimethylvinylene carbonate tetraethyleneglycol dimethyl ether polyethylene glycols sulfones and butyrolactone.

Suitable lithium salts that may be used in the electrolytes include but are not limited to Li B CO Li BF CO LiClO LiBF LiAsF LiSbF LiBr LiPF Li CFSO Li N CFSO Li C CFSO Li B CF Li B CH Li N SOCF Li N SOCFCF LiN SOCF Li BFCF Li PF CFCF LiBFH 0 x 1 and lithium alkyl fluorophosphates.

Suitable cathodes include those such as but not limited to a lithium metal oxide spinel olivine carbon coated olivine LiFePO LiCoO LiNiO LiNiCoMetO LiMnNiO LiMnCoNiO LiMnO LiFeO LiNiMnCoMet OF AB XO NASICON vanadium oxide lithium peroxide sulfur selenium selenium sulfur polysulfide a lithium carbon monofluoride also known as LiCFx or mixtures of any two or more thereof where Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Mn or Co Met is Mg Zn Al Ga B Zr or Ti A is Li Ag Cu Na Mn Fe Co Ni Cu or Zn B is Ti V Cr Fe or Zr X is P S Si W or Mo where for the general cathode formulas 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 x 0.4 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0.4 and 0 z 0.4 and 0 n 3. According to some embodiments the spinel is a spinel manganese oxide with the formula of LiMnMet OX wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni or Co X is S or F and where for the general cathode formulas 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 m 0.5 and 0 n 0.5. In other embodiments the olivine has a formula of LiFeMet POX wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni Mn or Co X is S or F and wherein 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 m 0.5 and 0 n 0.5.

In another aspect a method of preparing the above composite materials is provided. According to one embodiment the material may be prepared by mixing the raw materials of the respective elements or composites in the appropriate stoichiometric amounts based upon the values of x y and or . For example such ratios may be MMwhere 0

In some embodiments other methods of preparing the composite materials include melt spinning atomizing such as with gas atomizing and water atomizing rolling or mechanochemical reaction such as mechanical alloying method and mechanical milling. In some such embodiments the mechanochemical reaction includes mixing the precursor materials in a planetary ball mill apparatus or an attliter may be used as the mixing and grinding apparatus. As used herein melt spinning is a technique used for rapid cooling of liquids that uses a wheel that is cooled internally usually by water or liquid nitrogen and rotated. A thin stream of liquid is then dripped onto the wheel and cooled causing rapid solidification. As also used gas atomization is a powder production technique accomplished by forcing a molten metal stream through an orifice at moderate pressures. A gas is introduced into the metal stream just before it leaves the nozzle serving to create turbulence as the entrained gas expands due to heating and exits into a large collection volume exterior to the orifice. The collection volume is filled with gas to promote further turbulence of the molten metal jet. The water atomized particles are smaller cleaner and non porous and have a greater breadth of size which allows better compacting.

In some embodiments other methods of preparing the composite materials include vapor phase deposition spraying firing and liquid phase deposition methods.

In some embodiments other methods of preparing the composite materials include powder metallurgy by molten methods in an arc melting furnace a high frequency induction heater or the like. In such methods the molten material may be cooled and the cooled material may be pulverized. Further the molten metal may be quickly cooled by methods such as single roll quenching twin roll quenching gas atomizing water atomizing centrifugal atomizing and the like to obtain powder. Further the molten material may be solidified by single roll quenching and or twin roll quenching and then the solidified material may be pulverized. In some embodiments mechanical alloying is used. In other embodiments gas atomizing is used.

In one embodiment the composite material is prepared by high energy ball milling of the individual metal or metal oxide components. By way of illustration only where the composite material 50 wt SiO 50 wt SnCoC the precursor components of SiO Co metal Sn metal and graphite are mixed together with a high energy ball mixer. The resulting material is then suitable for use as an anode active material. According to various embodiments the precursor materials may include metals M metal oxides metal alloys metal carbonates metal acetates or metal halides.

After preparation of the composite material it may then be formed into an anode for use in an electrochemical cell as noted above. The anode is prepared by mixing the composite material with a binder and applying the material to a current collector. For example the composite material may be mixed in a solvent with the binder to form a slurry that is then applied to the current collector. Illustrative binders include but are not limited to poly acrylonitrile PAN poly vinylidene fluoride PVDF polyvinyl alcohol PVA polyethylene polystyrene polyethylene oxide polytetrafluoroethylene Teflon polyimide styrene butadiene rubber SBR carboxy methyl cellulose CMC gelatine a copolymer of any two or more such polymers or a blend of any two or more such polymers. In some embodiments the binder includes PVDF. In other embodiments the binder includes polyimide. The solvent may be any suitable solvent to suspend the materials and solvate the binder. In one embodiment the solvent is N methylpyrrolidone NMP .

The current collector provides contact between the electroactive composite material and an external load to allow for the flow of electrons through a circuit to which the electrode is connected. The current collector may be a conductive material. Illustrative current collectors include but are not limited to carbon paper aluminum nickel platinum palladium gold silver copper iron stainless steel rhodium manganese vanadium titanium tungsten or aluminum carbon coated or any carbon coated metal. In some embodiments the current collector is carbon paper aluminum or copper.

Accordingly in some embodiments a anode is provided that includes any of the composite materials produced above a binder and a current collector. In some embodiments the binder includes poly acrylonitrile poly vinylidene fluoride polyvinyl alcohol polyethylene polystyrene polyethylene oxide polytetrafluoroethylene polyimide styrene butadiene rubber carboxy methyl cellulose gelatine a copolymer of any two or more such polymers or a blend of any two or more such polymers. In other embodiments the current collector includes aluminum nickel platinum palladium gold silver copper iron stainless steel rhodium manganese vanadium titanium tungsten or carbon coated aluminum. In other embodiments the current collector includes carbon paper aluminum or copper.

In another aspect a lithium battery is provided that includes the anode as prepared by any of the above processes.

As used herein about will be understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art and will vary to some extent depending upon the context in which it is used. If there are uses of the term which are not clear to persons of ordinary skill in the art given the context in which it is used about will mean up to plus or minus 10 of the particular term.

All publications patent applications issued patents and other documents referred to in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication patent application issued patent or other document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety. Definitions that are contained in text incorporated by reference are excluded to the extent that they contradict definitions in this disclosure.

The present technology thus generally described will be understood more readily by reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting.

An anode laminate was prepared by mixing 80 wt of Material A 10 wt acetylene black and 10 wt PVDF as a suspension in N methylpyrrolidone NMP . The NMP was then removed. Material A is 50 wt SiO 50 wt SnCoC which was prepared by high energy ball milling of SiO nano material from Aldrich Co and Sn metals from Alpha Aesar and graphite from Hitachi .

The laminate material was then used to prepare 2325 coin cells using lithium metal foil as a counter electrode and an electrolyte of a 3 7 v v mixture of ethylene carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate with lithium ions present in the form of LiPF 1.2 M . As illustrated in Material A delivers an initial capacity of 900 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g and more than 417 mAh g 47 of the initial capacity at a 100 mA g current rate. The latter value being sustained for more than 100 cycles. Good cycling performance was obtained and no capacity fade was observed after cycle number 4. In comparison the SiOnano material alone shows very poor electrochemical activity and delivers an initial capacity of only 91 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g. This capacity decreases rapidly to less than 18 mAh g after only 10 cycles and at a current rate of 100 mA g. Moreover Material A has a tap density of about 1.43 g cm which is 7.5 times higher than that of the SiOnano material alone only 0.19 g cm .

An anode laminate was prepared by mixing 80 wt of Material B 10 wt acetylene black and 10 wt PVDF as a suspension in N methylpyrrolidone NMP . Material B is 50 wt cSiO 50 wt SnCoC which was prepared by high energy ball milling of cSiO carbon coated SiOfrom Shin Etsu Co and Sn metals from Alpha Aesar and graphite from Hitachi .

The laminate material was then used to prepare 2325 coin cells using a lithium metal foil as a counter electrode and an electrolyte of 3 7 v v mixture of ethylene carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate with lithium ions present in the form of LiPF 1.2 M . As illustrated in Material B delivers an initial capacity of 1243 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g and more than 497 mAh g 47 of the initial capacity at a 100 mA g current rate. The latter value being sustained for more than 100 cycles. Moderately good cycling performance was obtained and a small capacity fade was observed after cycle number 4. In comparison the cSiOalone delivers an initial capacity of 1734 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g. However this capacity decreases rapidly to less than 6 mAh g approximately 0.34 of the initial value after only 20 cycles and at a current rate of 100 mA g. Moreover Material B has a tap density of about 1.81 g cm which is 2.4 times higher than that of the cSiOnano material alone only 0.74 g cm .

An anode laminate was prepared by mixing 80 wt of Material B 10 wt acetylene black and 10 wt polyimide as a suspension in N methylpyrrolidone NMP . The polyimide laminate material was then used to prepare 2325 coin cells using a lithium metal foil as a counter electrode and an electrolyte of 3 7 v v mixture of ethylene carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate with lithium ions present in the form of LiPF 1.2 M . As illustrated in FIG. 3 Material B delivers an initial capacity of 1229 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g and more than 519 mAh g 42 of the initial capacity at a 300 mA g current rate. The latter value being sustained for more than 100 cycles. Good cycling performance was obtained and no capacity fade was observed after cycle number 4. In comparison the cSiOalone in polyimide delivers an initial capacity of 2140 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g. However this capacity decreases rapidly to less than 150 mAh g approximately 7 of the initial value after only 80 cycles and at a current rate of 400 mA g.

An anode laminate was prepared by mixing 80 wt of Material C 10 wt acetylene black and 10 wt polyimide as a suspension in N methylpyrrolidone NMP . Material C is 50 wt GeO 50 wt SnCoC which was prepared by high energy ball milling of GeO Aldrich Co and Sn metals from Alpha Aesar and graphite from Hitachi .

The laminate material was then used to prepare 2325 coin cells using a lithium metal foil as a counter electrode and an electrolyte of 3 7 v v mixture of ethylene carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate with lithium ions present in the form of LiPF 1.2 M . As illustrated in Material C delivers an initial capacity of 1500 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g and more than 918 mAh g 61 of the initial capacity at a 300 mA g current rate. The latter value being sustained for more than 50 cycles. Good cycling performance was obtained and no capacity fade was observed after 4 cycles. In comparison the GeOalone in a similarly prepared cell delivers an initial capacity of about 2209 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g. However this capacity decreases rapidly to less than 151 mAh g approximately 7 of the initial value after only 50 cycles and at a current rate of 300 mA g. Moreover Material C has a tap density of about 2.62 g cm which is 34 higher than that of the GeOalone only 1.95 g cm .

An anode laminate was prepared by mixing 80 wt of Material D 10 wt acetylene black and 10 wt polyimide as a suspension in N methylpyrrolidone NMP . Material D is 50 wt SnO 50 wt SnCoC which was prepared by high energy ball milling of SnO Aldrich Co and Sn metals from Alpha Aesar and graphite from Hitachi .

The laminate material was then used to prepare 2325 coin cells using a lithium metal foil as a counter electrode and an electrolyte of 3 7 v v mixture of ethylene carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate with lithium ions present in the form of LiPF 1.2 M . As illustrated in Material D delivers an initial capacity of 1267 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g between 5 mV and 2.5V and more than 819 mAh g was reversible in the first cycle with 65 charge discharge coulombic efficiency . Good cycling performance was obtained at a current rate of 300 mA g between 5 mV and 1.5 V and a capacity of 388 mAh g was sustained for more than 100 cycles. In comparison the SnOalone in a similarly prepared cell delivers an initial capacity of about 2010 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g. However this capacity decreases rapidly to less than 43 mAh g approximately 2 of the initial value after only 100 cycles and at a current rate of 300 mA g. Moreover Material D has a tap density of about 3.02 g cm which is 8 times higher than that of the SnOalone only 0.37 g cm .

An anode laminate was prepared by mixing 80 wt of Material E 10 wt acetylene black and 10 wt polyimide as a suspension in N methylpyrrolidone NMP . Material E is 50 wt MoO 50 wt SnCoC which was prepared by high energy ball milling of MoO Aldrich Co and Sn metals from Alpha Aesar and graphite from Hitachi .

The laminate material was then used to prepare 2325 coin cells using a lithium metal foil as a counter electrode and an electrolyte of 3 7 v v mixture of ethylene carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate with lithium ions present in the form of LiPF 1.2 M . As illustrated in Material E delivers an initial capacity of 1272 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g between 5 mV and 2.5V. Good cycling performance was obtained at a current rate of 300 mA g and a capacity of 770 mAh g was sustained for more than 100 cycles. In comparison the MoOalone in a similarly prepared cell delivers an initial capacity of about 1184 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g. However this capacity decreases rapidly to less than 219 mAh g approximately 19 of the initial value after only 100 cycles and at a current rate of 300 mA g. Moreover Material E has a tap density of about 2.74 g cm which is 66 higher than that of the MoOalone only 1.65 g cm .

An anode laminate was prepared by mixing 80 wt of Material F 10 wt acetylene black and 10 wt polyimide as a suspension in N methylpyrrolidone NMP . Material F is 50 wt SiO 50 wt SnCoC which was prepared by high energy ball milling of MoO Aldrich Co and Sn metals from Alpha Aesar and graphite from Hitachi .

The laminate material was then used to prepare 2325 coin cells using a lithium metal foil as a counter electrode and an electrolyte of 3 7 v v mixture of ethylene carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate with lithium ions present in the form of LiPF 1.2 M . As illustrated in Material F delivers an initial capacity of 1400 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g and more than 629 mAh g 45 of initial capacity at a current rate of 300 mA g. This latter value was sustained for more than 50 cycles. Good cycling performance no capacity fade was observed after 8 cycles. In comparison the SiO alone in a similarly prepared cell delivers an initial capacity of about 2429 mAh g at a current rate of 50 mA g. However this capacity decreases rapidly to less than 503 mAh g approximately 21 of the initial value after only 50 cycles and at a current rate of 300 mA g. Moreover Material F has a tap density of about 1.89 g cm which is 78 higher than that of the SiO alone only 1.06 g cm .

While certain embodiments have been illustrated and described it should be understood that changes and modifications can be made therein in accordance with ordinary skill in the art without departing from the technology in its broader aspects as defined in the following claims.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and compositions within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods reagents compounds compositions or biological systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes particularly in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member.

