---

title: Systems and methods for reputation scoring
abstract: Systems and methods of the present disclosure are directed to providing a digital reputation score. The server can generate a first reputation score of a user based on the user's online activity, identity verification, and online transaction history. The server can identify, from the user's online account, a first set of online accounts with which the user established a unidirectional trust relationship from the user to the first set of online accounts. The server can identify, from the user's online account, a second set of online accounts with which the user established a unidirectional trust relationship from the user to the second set of online accounts. The server can generate a second reputation score based on the first number and second number of trust relationships from the first set and second set of online accounts respectively. The server can generate a third reputation using the first and second reputation scores.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363283&OS=09363283&RS=09363283
owner: Traitperception Inc.
number: 09363283
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150630
---
The present solution is generally directed to providing a reputation score. In particular the present solution generates a reputation score based on unidirectional trust relationships among online accounts.

In the recent past people have created online identities by establishing social networking profiles email addresses among other online accounts. These online accounts are easy to establish. Some people may create online accounts to participate in activities and transactions that they would otherwise not participate in if their real world identity was associated.

Systems and methods of the present solution are directed to providing a reputation score. In some embodiments the present solution can determine a total reputation score based on 1 an intrinsic reputation score and 2 a network reputation score. The intrinsic reputation score may be based on the reputation from the user himself or herself. There may be three factors that are taken into account for the intrinsic reputation score i online activity ii identity and iii transactions. Online activity may include the duration of the user s online presence and the number of other users that the user is associated with. Identity may include the identity of the user as inferred for example from the user s email address government issued identification or phone verification among others. Transactions may include reviews and ratings associated with online transaction made by the user. The intrinsic reputation score and the three factors thereof may take into account temporal component. For example the value of the intrinsic reputation score determined from transactions may decrease after the user conducts fraudulent transactions. In another example the value of the intrinsic reputation score may decrease over time based on a negative exponential function.

Network reputation score may be based on the trust relationship between the user and other entities. Network reputation score may be determined based on reputation increases and reputation decreases. Reputation increases may signify the gain to network reputation based on the number of trusters that the user is associated with. Reputation decreases on the other hand may signify the risk of a user in trusting another user and may be based on the number of people that the user trusts and may depend on time. For example if a user trusts another user and afterward the other user receives a poor review on a transaction the network reputation of the first user may also be reduced. The total reputation score may be based on the intrinsic reputation score and the network reputation score. For example the total reputation score may be a sum of the intrinsic reputation score and the network reputation score.

At least one aspect of the present solution is directed to a method of generating a digital reputation score. The method can be performed or executed by a server having one or more processors. The server can generate a first reputation score of a user based on online activity associated with the user identity verification of the user and online transaction history of the user. The server can identify from a first online account of the user of a plurality of online accounts maintained by the server a first set of online accounts of the plurality of online accounts with which the first online account established responsive to one or more first requests received by the server a unidirectional trust relationship from the first online account to each respective online account of the first set of online accounts. The server can identify from the first online account of the first user a second set of online accounts that have established via the server responsive to one or more second requests received by the server unidirectional trust relationships from each respective online account of the second set of online accounts to the first online account. The server can generate for the first online account of the user a second reputation score based on a first number of trust relationships established with the first set of online accounts and a second number of trust relationships established with the second set of online accounts. The server can generate for the first online account of the user a third reputation score using the first reputation score of the user and the second reputation score of the user.

In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include identifying one or more other accounts maintained by one or more other server and determining using information associated with the one or more other accounts a first component score used to generate the first reputation score. In some embodiments determining using information associated with the one or more other accounts the first component score used to generate the first reputation score can include determining a length of time for which the one or more of the other accounts have been established and determining a number of online accounts with which each of the one or more other accounts has interacted. In some embodiments generating the first component score can include applying a slow increasing function to the determined length of time or the number of online actions with which an online account has interacted to counter measure high variance in the determined length of time or the number of online actions across different online accounts.

In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include identifying a domain name of an email address provided by the user. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include determining that the domain name belongs to an entity that satisfies a predetermined criteria. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include responsive to determining that the domain name belongs to an entity that satisfies a predetermined criteria generating a second component score used to generate the first reputation score.

In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include receiving a first image of a government issued ID of the user that includes the user s face. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include identifying from the government issued ID data representative of the face of the user. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include receiving via a video file a second image including the face of the user. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include comparing features of the user s face from the first image to features of the face of the user included in the second image. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include increasing a value of a second component score responsive to determining that the user s face included in the first image matches the face of the user in the second image.

In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include receiving via one or more networks data corresponding to online accounts of the users maintained by a plurality of other servers corresponding to other entities the data representative of one or more online transactions performed by the user. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include determining using the received data a third component score to generate the first reputation score.

In some embodiments the server can determine for each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts a respective second reputation score. In some embodiments the server can determine the second reputation score of the first online account using the second reputation scores of each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts. In some embodiments the second reputation score of each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts can be weighted according to a function of time. In some embodiments the server can update the third reputation score responsive to determining that a second reputation score of an online account of the first set of online accounts has decreased.

At least one aspect of the present solution is directed to a system of generating a digital reputation score. The system can include a server maintaining a plurality of online accounts in a database. The server can be configured to generate a first reputation score of a user based on online activity associated with the user identity verification of the user and online transaction history of the user. The server can be configured to identify from a first online account of the user of the plurality of online accounts a first set of online accounts of the plurality of online accounts with which the first online account established responsive to one or more first requests received by the server a unidirectional trust relationship from the first online account to each respective online account of the first set of online accounts. The server can be configured to identify from the first online account of the first user a second set of online accounts that have established via the server responsive to one or more second requests received by the server unidirectional trust relationships from each respective online account of the second set of online accounts to the first online account. The server can be configured to generate for the first online account of the user a second reputation score based on a first number of trust relationships established with the first set of online accounts and a second number of trust relationships established with the second set of online accounts. The server can be configured to generate for the first online account of the user a third reputation score using the first reputation score of the user and the second reputation score of the user.

In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include identifying or more other accounts maintained by one or more other server and determining using information associated with the one or more other accounts a first component score used to generate the first reputation score. In some embodiments determining using information associated with the one or more other accounts a first component score used to generate the first reputation score can include determining a length of time for which the one or more of the other accounts have been established and determining a number of online accounts with which each of the one or more other accounts has interacted. In some embodiments generating the first component score can include applying a slow increasing function to the determined length of time or the number of online actions with which an online account has interacted to counter measure high variance in the determined length of time or the number of online actions across different online accounts.

In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include identifying a domain name of an email address provided by the user. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include determining that the domain name belongs to an entity that satisfies a predetermined criteria. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include responsive to determining that the domain name belongs to an entity that satisfies a predetermined criteria generating a second component score used to generate the first reputation score.

In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include receiving first image of a government issued ID of the user that includes the user s face. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include identifying from the government issued ID data representative of the face of the user. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include receiving via a video file a second image including the face of the user. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include comparing features of the user s face from the first image to features of the face of the user included in the second image. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include increasing a value of a second component score responsive to determining that the user s face included in the first image matches the face of the user in the second image.

In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include receiving via one or more networks data corresponding to online accounts of the users maintained by a plurality of other servers corresponding to other entities the data representative of one or more online transactions performed by the user. In some embodiments generating the first reputation score can include determining using the received data a third component score to generate the first reputation score.

In some embodiments the server can be configured to determine for each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts a respective second reputation score. In some embodiments the server can be configured to determine the second reputation score of the first online account using the second reputation scores of each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts. In some embodiments the second reputation score of each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts can be weighted according to a function of time. In some embodiments the server can be configured to update the third reputation score responsive to determining that a second reputation score of an online account of the first set of online accounts has decreased.

For purposes of reading the description of the various embodiments below the following descriptions of the sections of the specification and their respective contents may be helpful 

Section A describes a network environment and computing environment which may be useful for practicing embodiments described herein.

Prior to discussing specific embodiments of the present solution it may be helpful to describe aspects of the operating environment as well as associated system components e.g. hardware elements in connection with the methods and systems described herein. Referring to an embodiment of a network environment is depicted. In brief overview the network environment includes one or more clients also generally referred to as local machine s client s client node s client machine s client computer s client device s endpoint s or endpoint node s in communication with one or more servers also generally referred to as server s node or remote machine s via one or more networks . In some embodiments a client has the capacity to function as both a client node seeking access to resources provided by a server and as a server providing access to hosted resources for other clients 

Although shows a network between the clients and the servers the clients and the servers may be on the same network . In some embodiments there are multiple networks between the clients and the servers . In one of these embodiments a network not shown may be a private network and a network may be a public network. In another of these embodiments a network may be a private network and a network a public network. In still another of these embodiments networks and may both be private networks.

The network may be connected via wired or wireless links. Wired links may include Digital Subscriber Line DSL coaxial cable lines or optical fiber lines. The wireless links may include BLUETOOTH Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX an infrared channel or satellite band. The wireless links may also include any cellular network standards used to communicate among mobile devices including standards that qualify as 1G 2G 3G or 4G. The network standards may qualify as one or more generation of mobile telecommunication standards by fulfilling a specification or standards such as the specifications maintained by International Telecommunication Union. The 3G standards for example may correspond to the International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 IMT 2000 specification and the 4G standards may correspond to the International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced IMT Advanced specification. Examples of cellular network standards include AMPS GSM GPRS UMTS LTE LTE Advanced Mobile WiMAX and WiMAX Advanced. Cellular network standards may use various channel access methods e.g. FDMA TDMA CDMA or SDMA. In some embodiments different types of data may be transmitted via different links and standards. In other embodiments the same types of data may be transmitted via different links and standards.

The network may be any type and or form of network. The geographical scope of the network may vary widely and the network can be a body area network BAN a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN e.g. Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN or the Internet. The topology of the network may be of any form and may include e.g. any of the following point to point bus star ring mesh or tree. The network may be an overlay network which is virtual and sits on top of one or more layers of other networks . The network may be of any such network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein. The network may utilize different techniques and layers or stacks of protocols including e.g. the Ethernet protocol the internet protocol suite TCP IP the ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode technique the SONET Synchronous Optical Networking protocol or the SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy protocol. The TCP IP internet protocol suite may include application layer transport layer internet layer including e.g. IPv6 or the link layer. The network may be a type of a broadcast network a telecommunications network a data communication network or a computer network.

In some embodiments the system may include multiple logically grouped servers . In one of these embodiments the logical group of servers may be referred to as a server farm or a machine farm . In another of these embodiments the servers may be geographically dispersed. In other embodiments a machine farm may be administered as a single entity. In still other embodiments the machine farm includes a plurality of machine farms . The servers within each machine farm can be heterogeneous one or more of the servers or machines can operate according to one type of operating system platform e.g. WINDOWS NT manufactured by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. while one or more of the other servers can operate on according to another type of operating system platform e.g. Unix Linux or Mac OS X .

In one embodiment servers in the machine farm may be stored in high density rack systems along with associated storage systems and located in an enterprise data center. In this embodiment consolidating the servers in this way may improve system manageability data security the physical security of the system and system performance by locating servers and high performance storage systems on localized high performance networks. Centralizing the servers and storage systems and coupling them with advanced system management tools allows more efficient use of server resources.

The servers of each machine farm do not need to be physically proximate to another server in the same machine farm . Thus the group of servers logically grouped as a machine farm may be interconnected using a wide area network WAN connection or a metropolitan area network MAN connection. For example a machine farm may include servers physically located in different continents or different regions of a continent country state city campus or room. Data transmission speeds between servers in the machine farm can be increased if the servers are connected using a local area network LAN connection or some form of direct connection. Additionally a heterogeneous machine farm may include one or more servers operating according to a type of operating system while one or more other servers execute one or more types of hypervisors rather than operating systems. In these embodiments hypervisors may be used to emulate virtual hardware partition physical hardware virtualize physical hardware and execute virtual machines that provide access to computing environments allowing multiple operating systems to run concurrently on a host computer. Native hypervisors may run directly on the host computer. Hypervisors may include VMware ESX ESXi manufactured by VMWare Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. the Xen hypervisor an open source product whose development is overseen by Citrix Systems Inc. the HYPER V hypervisors provided by Microsoft or others. Hosted hypervisors may run within an operating system on a second software level. Examples of hosted hypervisors may include VMware Workstation and VIRTUALBOX.

Management of the machine farm may be de centralized. For example one or more servers may comprise components subsystems and modules to support one or more management services for the machine farm . In one of these embodiments one or more servers provide functionality for management of dynamic data including techniques for handling failover data replication and increasing the robustness of the machine farm . Each server may communicate with a persistent store and in some embodiments with a dynamic store.

Server may be a file server application server web server proxy server appliance network appliance gateway gateway server virtualization server deployment server SSL VPN server or firewall. In one embodiment the server may be referred to as a remote machine or a node. In another embodiment a plurality of nodes may be in the path between any two communicating servers.

Referring to a cloud computing environment is depicted. A cloud computing environment may provide client with one or more resources provided by a network environment. The cloud computing environment may include one or more clients in communication with the cloud over one or more networks . Clients may include e.g. thick clients thin clients and zero clients. A thick client may provide at least some functionality even when disconnected from the cloud or servers . A thin client or a zero client may depend on the connection to the cloud or server to provide functionality. A zero client may depend on the cloud or other networks or servers to retrieve operating system data for the client device. The cloud may include back end platforms e.g. servers storage server farms or data centers.

The cloud may be public private or hybrid. Public clouds may include public servers that are maintained by third parties to the clients or the owners of the clients. The servers may be located off site in remote geographical locations as disclosed above or otherwise. Public clouds may be connected to the servers over a public network. Private clouds may include private servers that are physically maintained by clients or owners of clients. Private clouds may be connected to the servers over a private network . Hybrid clouds may include both the private and public networks and servers .

The cloud may also include a cloud based delivery e.g. Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service PaaS and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS . IaaS may refer to a user renting the use of infrastructure resources that are needed during a specified time period. IaaS providers may offer storage networking servers or virtualization resources from large pools allowing the users to quickly scale up by accessing more resources as needed. Examples of IaaS can include infrastructure and services e.g. EG 32 provided by OVH HOSTING of Montreal Quebec Canada AMAZON WEB SERVICES provided by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. RACKSPACE CLOUD provided by Rackspace US Inc. of San Antonio Tex. Google Compute Engine provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. or RIGHTSCALE provided by RightScale Inc. of Santa Barbara Calif. PaaS providers may offer functionality provided by IaaS including e.g. storage networking servers or virtualization as well as additional resources such as e.g. the operating system middleware or runtime resources. Examples of PaaS include WINDOWS AZURE provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Google App Engine provided by Google Inc. and HEROKU provided by Heroku Inc. of San Francisco Calif. SaaS providers may offer the resources that PaaS provides including storage networking servers virtualization operating system middleware or runtime resources. In some embodiments SaaS providers may offer additional resources including e.g. data and application resources. Examples of SaaS include GOOGLE APPS provided by Google Inc. SALESFORCE provided by Salesforce.com Inc. of San Francisco Calif. or OFFICE 365 provided by Microsoft Corporation. Examples of SaaS may also include data storage providers e.g. DROPBOX provided by Dropbox Inc. of San Francisco Calif. Microsoft SKYDRIVE provided by Microsoft Corporation Google Drive provided by Google Inc. or Apple ICLOUD provided by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif.

Clients may access IaaS resources with one or more IaaS standards including e.g. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud EC2 Open Cloud Computing Interface OCCI Cloud Infrastructure Management Interface CIMI or OpenStack standards. Some IaaS standards may allow clients access to resources over HTTP and may use Representational State Transfer REST protocol or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . Clients may access PaaS resources with different PaaS interfaces. Some PaaS interfaces use HTTP packages standard Java APIs JavaMail API Java Data Objects JDO Java Persistence API JPA Python APIs web integration APIs for different programming languages including e.g. Rack for Ruby WSGI for Python or PSGI for Perl or other APIs that may be built on REST HTTP XML or other protocols. Clients may access SaaS resources through the use of web based user interfaces provided by a web browser e.g. GOOGLE CHROME Microsoft INTERNET EXPLORER or Mozilla Firefox provided by Mozilla Foundation of Mountain View Calif. . Clients may also access SaaS resources through smartphone or tablet applications including e.g. Salesforce Sales Cloud or Google Drive app. Clients may also access SaaS resources through the client operating system including e.g. Windows file system for DROPBOX.

In some embodiments access to IaaS PaaS or SaaS resources may be authenticated. For example a server or authentication server may authenticate a user via security certificates HTTPS or API keys. API keys may include various encryption standards such as e.g. Advanced Encryption Standard AES . Data resources may be sent over Transport Layer Security TLS or Secure Sockets Layer SSL .

The client and server may be deployed as and or executed on any type and form of computing device e.g. a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein. depict block diagrams of a computing device useful for practicing an embodiment of the client or a server . As shown in each computing device includes a central processing unit and a main memory unit . As shown in a computing device may include a storage device an installation device a network interface an I O controller display devices a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse. The storage device may include without limitation an operating system software and a software of a reputation scoring system . As shown in each computing device may also include additional optional elements e.g. a memory port a bridge one or more input output devices generally referred to using reference numeral and a cache memory in communication with the central processing unit .

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit e.g. those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. the ARM processor and TEGRA system on a chip SoC manufactured by Nvidia of Santa Clara Calif. the POWER7 processor those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein. The central processing unit may utilize instruction level parallelism thread level parallelism different levels of cache and multi core processors. A multi core processor may include two or more processing units on a single computing component. Examples of multi core processors include the AMD PHENOM IIX2 INTEL CORE i5 and INTEL CORE i7.

Main memory unit may include one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor . Main memory unit may be volatile and faster than storage memory. Main memory units may be Dynamic random access memory DRAM or any variants including static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Single Data Rate Synchronous DRAM SDR SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Extreme Data Rate DRAM XDR DRAM . In some embodiments the main memory or the storage may be non volatile e.g. non volatile read access memory NVRAM flash memory non volatile static RAM nvSRAM Ferroelectric RAM FeRAM Magnetoresistive RAM MRAM Phase change memory PRAM conductive bridging RAM CBRAM Silicon Oxide Nitride Oxide Silicon SONOS Resistive RAM RRAM Racetrack Nano RAM NRAM or Millipede memory. The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRDRAM.

A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices may include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs touchpads touch mice multi touch touchpads and touch mice microphones multi array microphones drawing tablets cameras single lens reflex camera SLR digital SLR DSLR CMOS sensors accelerometers infrared optical sensors pressure sensors magnetometer sensors angular rate sensors depth sensors proximity sensors ambient light sensors gyroscopic sensors or other sensors. Output devices may include video displays graphical displays speakers headphones inkjet printers laser printers and 3D printers.

Devices may include a combination of multiple input or output devices including e.g. Microsoft KINECT Nintendo Wiimote for the WII Nintendo WII U GAMEPAD or Apple IPHONE. Some devices allow gesture recognition inputs through combining some of the inputs and outputs. Some devices provides for facial recognition which may be utilized as an input for different purposes including authentication and other commands. Some devices provides for voice recognition and inputs including e.g. Microsoft KINECT SIRI for IPHONE by Apple Google Now or Google Voice Search.

Additional devices have both input and output capabilities including e.g. haptic feedback devices touchscreen displays or multi touch displays. Touchscreen multi touch displays touchpads touch mice or other touch sensing devices may use different technologies to sense touch including e.g. capacitive surface capacitive projected capacitive touch PCT in cell capacitive resistive infrared waveguide dispersive signal touch DST in cell optical surface acoustic wave SAW bending wave touch BWT or force based sensing technologies. Some multi touch devices may allow two or more contact points with the surface allowing advanced functionality including e.g. pinch spread rotate scroll or other gestures. Some touchscreen devices including e.g. Microsoft PIXELSENSE or Multi Touch Collaboration Wall may have larger surfaces such as on a table top or on a wall and may also interact with other electronic devices. Some I O devices display devices or group of devices may be augment reality devices. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections not shown to receive handheld USB storage devices. In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus e.g. a USB bus a SCSI bus a FireWire bus an Ethernet bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus a Fibre Channel bus or a Thunderbolt bus.

In some embodiments display devices may be connected to I O controller . Display devices may include e.g. liquid crystal displays LCD thin film transistor LCD TFT LCD blue phase LCD electronic papers e ink displays flexile displays light emitting diode displays LED digital light processing DLP displays liquid crystal on silicon LCOS displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED displays liquid crystal laser displays time multiplexed optical shutter TMOS displays or 3D displays. Examples of 3D displays may use e.g. stereoscopy polarization filters active shutters or autostereoscopy. Display devices may also be a head mounted display HMD . In some embodiments display devices or the corresponding I O controllers may be controlled through or have hardware support for OPENGL or DIRECTX API or other graphics libraries.

In some embodiments the computing device may include or connect to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may include any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices . In one embodiment a video adapter may include multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices . In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices . In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple displays . In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices or connected to the computing device via the network . In some embodiments software may be designed and constructed to use another computer s display device as a second display device for the computing device . For example in one embodiment an Apple iPad may connect to a computing device and use the display of the device as an additional display screen that may be used as an extended desktop. One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices 

Referring again to the computing device may comprise a storage device e.g. one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system or other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the software for the reputation scoring system. Examples of storage device include e.g. hard disk drive HDD optical drive including CD drive DVD drive or BLU RAY drive solid state drive SSD USB flash drive or any other device suitable for storing data. Some storage devices may include multiple volatile and non volatile memories including e.g. solid state hybrid drives that combine hard disks with solid state cache. Some storage device may be non volatile mutable or read only. Some storage device may be internal and connect to the computing device via a bus . Some storage device may be external and connect to the computing device via a I O device that provides an external bus. Some storage device may connect to the computing device via the network interface over a network including e.g. the Remote Disk for MACBOOK AIR by Apple. Some client devices may not require a non volatile storage device and may be thin clients or zero clients . Some storage device may also be used as an installation device and may be suitable for installing software and programs. Additionally the operating system and the software can be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD e.g. KNOPPIX a bootable CD for GNU Linux that is available as a GNU Linux distribution from knoppix.net.

Client device may also install software or application from an application distribution platform. Examples of application distribution platforms include the App Store for iOS provided by Apple Inc. the Mac App Store provided by Apple Inc. GOOGLE PLAY for Android OS provided by Google Inc. Chrome Webstore for CHROME OS provided by Google Inc. and Amazon Appstore for Android OS and KINDLE FIRE provided by Amazon.com Inc. An application distribution platform may facilitate installation of software on a client device . An application distribution platform may include a repository of applications on a server or a cloud which the clients may access over a network . An application distribution platform may include application developed and provided by various developers. A user of a client device may select purchase and or download an application via the application distribution platform.

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to the network through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 Gigabit Ethernet Infiniband broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM Gigabit Ethernet Ethernet over SONET ADSL VDSL BPON GPON fiber optical including FiOS wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. Connections can be established using a variety of communication protocols e.g. TCP IP Ethernet ARCNET SONET SDH Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IEEE 802.11a b g n ac CDMA GSM WiMax and direct asynchronous connections . In one embodiment the computing device communicates with other computing devices via any type and or form of gateway or tunneling protocol e.g. Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS or the Citrix Gateway Protocol manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card EXPRESSCARD network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein.

A computing device of the sort depicted in may operate under the control of an operating system which controls scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the MICROSOFT WINDOWS operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the MAC OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include but are not limited to WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS Server 2022 WINDOWS CE WINDOWS Phone WINDOWS XP WINDOWS VISTA and WINDOWS 7 WINDOWS RT and WINDOWS 8 all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MAC OS and iOS manufactured by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and Linux a freely available operating system e.g. Linux Mint distribution distro or Ubuntu distributed by Canonical Ltd. of London United Kingdom or Unix or other Unix like derivative operating systems and Android designed by Google of Mountain View Calif. among others. Some operating systems including e.g. the CHROME OS by Google may be used on zero clients or thin clients including e.g. CHROMEBOOKS.

The computer system can be any workstation telephone desktop computer laptop or notebook computer netbook ULTRABOOK tablet server handheld computer mobile telephone smartphone or other portable telecommunications device media playing device a gaming system mobile computing device or any other type and or form of computing telecommunications or media device that is capable of communication. The computer system has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein. In some embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. The Samsung GALAXY smartphones e.g. operate under the control of Android operating system developed by Google Inc. GALAXY smartphones receive input via a touch interface.

In some embodiments the computing device is a gaming system. For example the computer system may comprise a PLAYSTATION 3 or PERSONAL PLAYSTATION PORTABLE PSP or a PLAYSTATION VITA device manufactured by the Sony Corporation of Tokyo Japan a NINTENDO DS NINTENDO 3DS NINTENDO WII or a NINTENDO WII U device manufactured by Nintendo Co. Ltd. of Kyoto Japan an XBOX 360 device manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

In some embodiments the computing device is a digital audio player such as the Apple IPOD IPOD Touch and IPOD NANO lines of devices manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. Some digital audio players may have other functionality including e.g. a gaming system or any functionality made available by an application from a digital application distribution platform. For example the IPOD Touch may access the Apple App Store. In some embodiments the computing device is a portable media player or digital audio player supporting file formats including but not limited to MP3 WAV M4A AAC WMA Protected AAC RIFF Audible audiobook Apple Lossless audio file formats and .mov .m4v and .mp4 MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 4 AVC video file formats.

In some embodiments the computing device is a tablet e.g. the IPAD line of devices by Apple GALAXY TAB family of devices by Samsung or KINDLE FIRE by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. In other embodiments the computing device is an eBook reader e.g. the KINDLE family of devices by Amazon.com or NOOK family of devices by Barnes Noble Inc. of New York City N.Y.

In some embodiments the communications device includes a combination of devices e.g. a smartphone combined with a digital audio player or portable media player. For example one of these embodiments is a smartphone e.g. the IPHONE family of smartphones manufactured by Apple Inc. a Samsung GALAXY family of smartphones manufactured by Samsung Inc. or a Motorola DROID family of smartphones. In yet another embodiment the communications device is a laptop or desktop computer equipped with a web browser and a microphone and speaker system e.g. a telephony headset. In these embodiments the communications devices are web enabled and can receive and initiate phone calls. In some embodiments a laptop or desktop computer is also equipped with a webcam or other video capture device that enables video chat and video call.

In some embodiments the status of one or more machines in the network are monitored generally as part of network management. In one of these embodiments the status of a machine may include an identification of load information e.g. the number of processes on the machine CPU and memory utilization of port information e.g. the number of available communication ports and the port addresses or of session status e.g. the duration and type of processes and whether a process is active or idle . In another of these embodiments this information may be identified by a plurality of metrics and the plurality of metrics can be applied at least in part towards decisions in load distribution network traffic management and network failure recovery as well as any aspects of operations of the present solution described herein. Aspects of the operating environments and components described above will become apparent in the context of the systems and methods disclosed herein.

Oftentimes on the Internet users may deal or otherwise interact with other users with whom the user may have never dealt or interacted before. This lack of prior interaction may be a source of anxiety for such users. A reputation scoring system can generate a digital reputation score of users for other users to gauge how reliable the user is. The digital reputation score may be based on two sources 1 three dimensional intrinsic reputation and 2 network reputation. Briefly the three dimensional intrinsic reputation can refer to the reputation a user gathers by providing information about themselves. Such information may include for example email addresses passport verifications online accounts on social media sites transaction history in e commerce and sharing economy platforms. Network reputation can refer to the reputation a user gathers based on activity of other users for example by having other users explicitly declare that they trust the user.

The three dimensional intrinsic reputation may be based on three dimensions i online activity ii identity and iii transactions. Online activity may be associated with a variety of factors related to digital fingerprints. One of the more relevant factors may be how long the user can prove that the user has been online for instance by connecting accounts in major well known providers such as mainstream social sites or web mail services. Another relevant factor that may be taken into account is the number of users the connected account has engaged with and how persistent the engagement is. In some embodiments these input variables may present variance typically with non Gaussian long tailed distribution. To counter these artefacts in some embodiments the reputation scoring system can reduce such heterogeneity by applying slow increasing functions such as a logarithmic function so that the resulting distribution is not dramatically different whether the connected account has engaged 1 000 users or 1 million users but it is very different for 5 versus 100 users.

Identity may be gathered from providing information that may signify whether the user is who the user indicates they are because such information may be difficult to obtain. For example if a user provides a phone number or email address the reputation scoring system can attribute a higher score if the phone number or email address belongs to a well known corporation or university. In some embodiments the reputation scoring system can implement a two step passport verification to verify a top level in identity. In such embodiments the reputation scoring system can verify a digital copy of a government issued ID and then match the face recognized from the picture of the government issued ID with the voice recognized from the key phrased recorded in the video or audio from phone verification.

Transactions may be gathered from reviews and ratings associated with online transactions on websites such as EBay Airbnb Uber or Etsy among others. To determine the raw ratings from various websites the reputation scoring system can first normalize the raw ratings based on the overall reputation of the respective platform and then determine the reputation of the user within the platform. Transactions may take into account a temporal component. For example the reputation scoring system can assign a lower transaction score when a person with previously excellent reviews starts to commit fraud on EBay. In another example the influence of a particular rating may decrease over time.

Network reputation score may be based on the trust relationship between the user and other entities. Network reputation score may be determined based on reputation increases and reputation decreases. Reputation increases may signify the gain to network reputation based on the number of trusters that the user is associated with. Reputation decreases on the other hand may signify the risk of a user in trusting another user and may be based on the number of people that the user trusts and may depend on time. For example if a user trusts another user and afterward the other user receives a poor review on a transaction the network reputation of the first user may also be reduced. The total reputation score may be based on the intrinsic reputation score and the network reputation score. For example the total reputation score may be a sum of the intrinsic reputation score and the network reputation score.

To determine the network reputation score the reputation scoring system can generate a trust network that includes a graph depicting trust relationships among various entities. Nodes in this graph may be restricted to represent natural persons as opposed to corporations and institutions. The trust network may be considered as the projection of user space of a bipartite graph of institutions and individuals. The trust links may be unidirectional since user A s trust of user B may not imply user B trusting user A. The existence of a trust link may imply a certain level of agreement between the two nodes even if one user rejects the other. Furthermore the graph may take into account the cost of a social link. The cost may be related to the risk that if user A trusts user B and user B receives a bad review user B s reputation may decrease as well as user A s reputation.

Referring now to a block diagram depicting an embodiment of a system for generating digital reputation scores is shown. In brief overview the system can include an account manager an intrinsic reputation generator a network reputation generator a digital reputation score generator and a database . The system can include or interactive with one or more clients or client device one or more servers or server . The account manager the intrinsic reputation generator the network reputation generator and the digital reputation score generator can each include one or more processing units or other logic devices such as programmable logic array engines modules or circuitry designed and constructed to facilitate generating a digital reputation score. In some implementations the account manager the intrinsic reputation generator the network reputation generator and the digital reputation score generator can include a script computer executable instructions a file or other executable object that can be used to generate a digital reputation score of a user. The system can include components shown in or or be configured to operate as a service in cloud . The system can include or interact with one or more servers and clients 

The account manager can be configured to maintain accounts for one or more users of the reputation scoring system . The account manager can maintain and manage accounts of the one or more users. The account manager can store information pertaining to the accounts of the users in the database . Each account can include information of a respective user. In some implementations the account manager can be configured to register a user on the system . As part of the registration the account manager can receive information from the user identifying one or more online accounts of the user. The online accounts can pertain to accounts the user has established with a variety of different online websites platforms applications among others. For instance the user can identify one or more social networking accounts one or more email addresses associated with email accounts one or more websites among others. The account manager can retrieve account information from one or more of these accounts of the user. In some implementations the account manager may retrieve the information via application program interfaces APIs . In some implementations the account manager can receive information from servers of websites or entities with which the user has accounts. The information can include information about the history of the user s account transaction information of the account online activity of the user via the account as well as information relating to other users of the entity with which the user has a connection among others.

In some embodiments the account manager can identify one or more other accounts maintained by one or more other servers . For example if a user maintains an account on FACEBOOK LINKEDIN TWITTER and EBAY the account manager can identify the accounts on the servers of FACEBOOK LINKEDIN TWITTER and EBAY as belonging to and maintained by that user. In some implementations the account manager can identify or receive information relating to the user from each of the servers . The information can include a list of contacts of the user one or more online activities performed by the user at the respective server one or more transactions performed by the user via the respective server among others. The account manager can store the information in the database and may be configured to make the information accessible to each of the intrinsic reputation generator the network reputation generator and the digital reputation score generator .

The intrinsic reputation generator can be configured to generate an intrinsic reputation score of the user. The intrinsic reputation generator can generate the intrinsic reputation score of a user based on the information provided by the user or based on other online activity of the user that is accessible by the intrinsic reputation generator . In some implementations the intrinsic reputation generator can generate an intrinsic reputation score based on three dimensions namely online activity identity and transactions . In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation score of the user may be a sum of an online activity score an identity score and an transaction score. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation score of the user may be a weighted sum of the online activity score the identity score and the transaction score.

In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can determine a number of online accounts with which each of the one or more other accounts has interacted. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can aggregate the number of connections of the user from one or more accounts maintained by the one or more other servers . For example if a user has 1 500 connections on LinkedIn and 1 100 on FACEBOOK the intrinsic reputation generator can access the respective servers and determine that the user is interacting with 2 600 other users by aggregating the number of connections accessed from the respective servers . In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can determine a length of time for which the one or more other accounts have been established. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can access the length of time for which the one or more other accounts have been established from the one or more accounts maintained by the one or more other servers . For example the intrinsic reputation generator can determine that the user has established an account with LinkedIn 2 months ago by accessing either a database or a server of LinkedIn. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can determine the length of time for which the one or more other accounts have been established by accessing the date that the one or more other accounts have been established from the one or more other servers . In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can determine the length of time for which one or more accounts have been established by accessing the server of the entity with which the account was established and identifying activity of the account. For example the intrinsic reputation generator can via the server of the entity providing the email address identify that an email address of the user received its first email in January 2010.

In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can apply a slow increasing function to the determined length of time or the number of online actions with which an online account has interacted to counter measure high variance in the determined length of time or the number of online actions across different online accounts. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can use a slow increasing function towards the number of accounts associated with the user to determine the online activity score. For example the intrinsic reputation generator can use a logarithmic function such that the online activity score of a user account engaged with 1 000 other users is not much different from one engaged with 1 million other users but may differ greatly between a user account engaged with 5 other users versus 100 other users. In another example the intrinsic reputation generator can use a function of the following form 

The intrinsic reputation generator can also be configured to generate the identity score of a user. The identity score of the user can indicate a level of verification of the user. Setting up an online account can be done fairly easily and generally is not tied to the natural person in the sense that someone may establish an online account pretending to be someone else. As such the intrinsic reputation generator can generate an identity score that can provide a metric that helps one determine how likely the person having the online account is the natural person they are presenting themselves online.

To generate an identity score the intrinsic reputation generator can verify whether the online accounts of the user maintained by servers of various online platforms are tied to the natural person associated with the user of the reputation scoring system. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can identify a domain name of an email address provided by the user. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can determine that the domain name belongs to an entity that satisfies a predetermined criteria. The predetermined criteria can specify types of entities such as universities corporations among other entities. For example if the predetermined criteria specifies efg corporation.com and the email address provided by the user is john doe efg corporation.com the intrinsic reputation generator can determine that the email address belongs to EFG Corp. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can responsive to determining that the domain name belongs to an entity that satisfies the predetermined criteria generate an identity score used to generate the intrinsic reputation score. The identity score may represent the identity measure of a user in the intrinsic reputation score. In some embodiments the identity score may be dependent on the verifiability of the online account associated with the user. For example a user with the email account ABC aol.com may have a lower second component score than another user with the email account DEF furniture dealer.com because the email account ABC aol.com may not be tied to a particular entity or organization.

In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can establish or otherwise confirm the identity of a particular online user. In some embodiments In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can confirm the identity of a particular online user by comparing features of an image included in a government issued ID with features of an image received from the user. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can receive a first image of a government issued ID of the user. A government issued ID can include a passport driver s license fishing license military IDs or any other suitable identification issued by a government with a face appearing on one side. In some embodiments the government issued ID of the user can include the user s face. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can identify from the government issued ID data representative of the face of the user. For example once the government issued ID is scanned the intrinsic reputation generator can identify the face of the user on a government issued ID by using pattern recognition algorithms such as principal component analysis linear discriminate analysis and feature identification analysis among others. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can receive via a video file a second image. In some embodiments the second image can include the face of the user. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can compare features of the user s face from the first image to features of the face of the user included in the second image. For example once the first image and the second image has been acquired the intrinsic reputation generator can compare the features of the user s face from the first image to the features of the second image using feature detection algorithms and then applying nearest neighbor algorithms to determine the similarity of the features of the user s face between the first image and the second image. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can increase a value of a second component score responsive to determining that the use s face included in the first image matches the face of the user in the second image.

In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can determine the transactions score used for the intrinsic reputation score based on online transactions performed by the user. Online transactions can include for example purchases of goods or services returns and reviews and ratings of such transactions among others. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can receive data corresponding to online accounts of the users maintained by a plurality of other servers corresponding to other entities. The data can include data representative of one or more online transactions performed by the user. For example Amazon.com may maintain online transaction data corresponding to online accounts of users on one or more servers . In this example Amazon.com responsive to a request from the intrinsic reputation generator can transmit the online transaction data to the intrinsic reputation generator . In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation generator can determine the transactions score of the user using the received data. The transactions score may represent the online transactions made by the user. For example a user that has mostly favorable reviews regarding the user s sales of goods to others may have a higher transactions score. In contrast a user that has mostly negative reviews regarding the user s sale of goods to others such as descriptions of the user s poor quality or fraudulent transactions may have a lower transactions score.

The network reputation generator can be configured to determine a network reputation of users of the reputation scoring system. The network reputation of a user can be based on trust relationships established by servers of the reputation scoring system. The trust relationships are unidirectional. The network reputation score of a user is based in part on the number of users that trust the user the number of users that the user trusts and the network reputation score of each of the other users in the reputation scoring system. A user that establishes via the server a unidirectional trust relationship to other users can be referred to as a truster of the other users. Conversely users that establish via the server a unidirectional trust relationship to the first user can be referred to as trusters of the first user.

The network reputation generator can identify from a first online account of the user a first set of online accounts with which the first online account established via the server a unidirectional trust relationship to each respective online account of the first set of online accounts. In some embodiments the reputation scoring system may establish a unidirectional trust relationship from the first online account to the first set of online accounts in response to the reputation scoring system receiving one or more requests to establish a unidirectional trust relationship from the first online account to each of the first set of online accounts. The unidirectional trust relationships from each respective online account of the second set of online accounts of the first online account can be defined to include relationships between natural persons. The server can identify an account of the first online user and determine a number of second users with which the first online user has established a unidirectional trust relationship. The server can establish unidirectional trust relationships from the first user to a second user responsive to receiving a request to establish a unidirectional trust relationship from the first user. Here the network reputation generator can identify the users to which the first user is identified as a truster.

The network reputation generator can identify from the first online account of the first user a second set of online accounts that established unidirectional trust relationships from each respective online account of the second set of online accounts to the first online account. The network reputation generator can identify an account of the first online user and determine from the account of the first online user a number of second users that have established via the server a unidirectional trust relationship from the respective second user to the first user. Here the network reputation generator can identify the trusters of the first user. The network reputation generator can establish unidirectional trust relationships from the respective second users to the first user in response to receiving a request to establish a unidirectional trust relationship from the respective second user.

The network reputation generator can generate for the first online account of the user a network reputation score based on a first number of trust relationships established with the first set of online account and a second number of trust relationships established with the second set of online accounts. The network reputation score may represent the score of the user based on the user s network reputation. In some embodiments the network reputation generator can determine the second reputation score based on the reputation increase and reputation decrease of the user. The second reputation score may be for example in the following form where N u represents that the reputation increase and N u represents the reputation decrease each for user u.

Continuing this example suppose that the path length L 1 and the users are associated in the manner seen in . depicts an embodiment of a trust network. In users A E are each represented with nodes and respectively. Furthermore in this example assume that the intrinsic reputation value of the users I u are as follows I A I B 2 and I E I C I D 5. Then for user A

In some embodiments the network reputation generator can determine for each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts a respective network reputation score. In some embodiments the network reputation generator can determine the network reputation score of the first online account using the network reputation scores of each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts. In some embodiments the network reputation generator can weigh the network reputation score of each of the first set of the online accounts and the second set of online accounts according to a function of time.

The digital reputation score generator can generate for the first online account of the user a digital reputation score using the intrinsic reputation score of the user and the network reputation score of the user. For example the digital reputation score generator can determine the digital reputation score based on the sum of the intrinsic reputation score of the user and the network reputation score of the user using the following form where R denotes digital reputation score N denotes network based reputation and I denotes intrinsic based reputation for user u. In some embodiments the digital reputation score generator can update the digital reputation score responsive to determining that a network reputation score of an online account of the first set of online accounts has decreased.

The digital reputation score generated by the digital reputation score generator can exhibit a certain number of properties. First the sole additive source of reputation score in the trust network may be the intrinsic reputation score. That is in a network where the intrinsic reputation score is zero for every user v in the network the digital reputation score may also be zero. Second loops in the network may not be dominated by stationary distribution artefacts. While the digital reputation gathered by one user is expected to increase linearly with the number of incoming links from other users the marginal contributions by such other users to the reputation of the user may be inversely proportional to the number of people trusted by the user.

Referring to depicts a block diagram of an embodiment of a trust network. In a random surfer in the trust network may get stuck in the loop created by node C and D thereby producing a degenerated stationary visit distribution such that P A P B 0 P C P D 0.5. One approach may be to tweak the algorithm so that such loops in the network do not become overrepresented. In the present approach however since one user may contribute to the digital reputation score of another user only once there may be no significant loop effects. Lastly the digital reputation score of a user decreases with more outgoing links in the trust network. This close neighborhood effect however may not propagate through the network because after the decrease occurs the users with whom the user has directly trusted in the tree may be considered accountable.

Referring now to is a flow diagram depicting a method for generating digital reputation scores. The functionality described herein in the method can be performed by any one or more components system depicted in such as one or more of the servers or any one or more components of system depicted in . In brief overview the server of the reputation scoring system can generate a first reputation score of a user based on online activity associated with the user identity verification of the user and online transaction history of the user BLOCK . The server can identify from a first online account of the user a first set of online accounts with which the first online account established a unidirectional trust relationship from the first online account to each respective online account of the first set of online accounts BLOCK . The server can identify from the first online account of the first user a second set of online accounts that have established via the server unidirectional trust relationships from each respective online account of the second set of online accounts to the first online account BLOCK . The server can generate for the first online account of the user a second reputation score based on a first number of trust relationships established with the first set of online accounts and a second number of trust relationships established with the second set of online accounts BLOCK . The server can generate for the first online account of the user a third reputation score using the first reputation score of the user and the second reputation score of the user BLOCK .

In further detail the server can generate a first reputation score of a user based on online activity with the user BLOCK . The first reputation score of a user may represent the intrinsic reputation score of the user. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation score of the user may be a sum of an online activity score identity score and transaction score. In some embodiments the intrinsic reputation score of the user may be a weighted sum of an online activity score identity score and transaction score. In some embodiments the system can maintain a plurality of online accounts in a database . In some embodiments the server can identify one or more other accounts maintained by one or more other servers. For example if a user maintains an account on FACEBOOK LINKEDIN TWITTER and EBAY the server can identify the accounts on the servers of FACEBOOK LINKEDIN TWITTER and EBAY as belonging to and maintained by that user. In some embodiments the server can determine using information associated with the one or more other accounts the online activity score used to generate the intrinsic reputation score. The online activity score can be based on the online activity related to a user.

In some embodiments the server can determine a number of online accounts with which each of the one or more other accounts has interacted. In some embodiments the server can access the length of time for which the one or more other accounts have been established from the one or more accounts maintained by the one or more other servers. In some embodiments the server can determine the length of time for which the one or more other accounts have been established by accessing the date that the one or more other accounts have been established from the one or more other servers.

In some embodiments the server can apply a slow increasing function to the determined length of time or the number of online actions with which an online account has interacted to count measure high variance in the determined length of time or the number of online actions across different online accounts. In some embodiments the server can use a slow increasing function of the number of accounts associated with the user to determine the online activity score. In some embodiments the server can apply the slow increasing function to the first reputation score. In some embodiments the server can apply the slow increasing function to one or more of the online activity score identity score and transaction score.

In some embodiments the server can identify a domain name of an email address provided by the user. In some embodiments the server can determine that the domain name belongs to an entity that satisfies a predetermined criteria. The predetermined criteria can specify types of entities such as universities corporations or other servers . In some embodiments the server can responsive to determining that the domain name belongs to an entity that satisfies the predetermined criteria generate an identity score used to generate the intrinsic reputation score. The identity score may represent the identity measure of a user in the intrinsic reputation score determination. In some embodiments the second component score may be dependent on the verifiability of the online account associated with the user.

In some embodiments the server can establish or otherwise confirm the identity of a particular online user. In some embodiments the server can confirm the identity of a particular online user by comparing features of an image included in a government issued ID with features of an image received from the user. In some embodiments the server can receive a first image of a government issued ID of the user. A government issued ID can include a passport driver s license fishing license military IDs or any other suitable identification issued by a government with a face appearing on at least one side. In some embodiments the government issued ID of the user can include the user s face. In some embodiments the server can identify from the government issued ID data representative of the face of the user. For example once the government issued ID is scanned the server can identify the face of the user on a government issued ID by using pattern recognition algorithms such as principal component analysis linear discriminate analysis and feature identification analysis among others. In some embodiments the server can receive via a video file a second image. In some embodiments the second image can include the face of the user. In some embodiments the server can compare features of the user s face from the first image to features of the face of the user included in the second image. For example once the first image and the second image has been acquired the server can compare the features of the user s face from the first image to the features of the second image using feature detection algorithms and then applying nearest neighbor algorithms to determine the similarity of the features of the user s face between the first image and the second image. In some embodiments the server can increase a value of a second component score responsive to determining that the use s face included in the first image matches the face of the user in the second image.

In some embodiments the server can determine a transactions score for the intrinsic reputation score based on online transactions performed by the user. Online transactions can include for example purchases of goods or services returns and reviews and ratings of such transactions among others. In some embodiments the server can receive data corresponding to online accounts of the users maintained by a plurality of other servers corresponding to other entities. The data can include data representative of one or more online transactions performed by the user. In some embodiments the server can determine using the received data the transactions score to generate the intrinsic reputation score. For example a user that has mostly favorable reviews regarding the user s sales of goods to others may have a higher transactions score than a user with average reviews. In contrast a user that has mostly negative reviews regarding the user s sale of goods to others such as descriptions of the user s poor quality or fraudulent transactions may have a lower transactions score than a user with average reviews.

The server can identify from a first online account of the user a first set of online accounts with which the first online account established a unidirectional trust relationship from the first online account to each respective online account of the first set of online accounts BLOCK . In some embodiments the reputation scoring system may establish a unidirectional trust relationship from the first online account to the first set of online accounts in response to the reputation scoring system receiving one or more requests to establish a unidirectional trust relationship from the first online account to each of the first set of online accounts. The unidirectional trust relationships from each respective online account of the second set of online accounts of the first online account can be defined to include relationships between natural persons. The server can identify an account of the first online user and determine a number of second users with which the user has established a unidirectional trust relationship. The server can establish unidirectional trust relationships from the first user to a second user responsive to receiving a request to establish a unidirectional trust relationship from the first user.

The server of the reputation scoring system can identify from the first online account of the first user a second set of online accounts that established unidirectional trust relationships from each respective online account of the second set of online accounts to the first online account BLOCK . The server can identify an account of the first online user and determine from the account of the first online user a number of second users that have established via the server a unidirectional trust relationship from the respective second user to the first user. The server can establish unidirectional trust relationships from the respective second users to the first user in response to receiving a request to establish a unidirectional trust relationship from the respective second user.

The server can generate for the first online account of the user a second reputation score based on a first number of trust relationships established with the first set of online accounts and a second number of trust relationships established with the second set of online accounts BLOCK . The second reputation score may represent the score of the user based on the user s network reputation. In some embodiments the server can determine the second reputation score based on the reputation increase and reputation decrease of the user.

In some embodiments the server can determine for each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts a respective second reputation score. In some embodiments the server can determine the second reputation score of the first online account using the second reputation scores of each of the first set of online accounts and the second set of online accounts. In some embodiments the server can weigh the second reputation score of each of the first set of the online accounts and the second set of online accounts according to a function of time.

The server can generate for the first online account of the user a third reputation score using the first reputation score of the user and the second reputation score of the user BLOCK . For example the server can determine the third reputation score based on the sum of the first reputation score of the user and the second reputation score of the user. In some embodiments the server can update the third reputation score responsive to determining that a second reputation score of an online account of the first set of online accounts has decreased.

Referring now to is a depiction of an embodiment of a graphical user interface . The graphical user interface can include user photo a reputation indicator one or more verification indicators short biography one up button unfriend button link to reviews and one or more vouch indicators among others. The user photo can include a picture of the user. The reputation indicator can include an indication of the reputation of the user. The reputation of the user can include a numerical score numerical range and verbal classification as depicted among others. The one or more verification indicators can include the various types of verification that the user has registered. For example in the user has been verified via email social networks and smartphone. The short biography can include a name of the user location of the user and number of friends among others. The short biography can also include a link for more information about the user. The one up button can be used to create a connection with the user or increase the total reputation of the user among others. The unfriend button can be used to sever the connection with the user or decrease the total reputation of the user among others. The link to reviews can be used to display ratings or rankings earned by the user on other social media. The one or more vouches can include a list of vouches or trust relationships from other users of the trust network. In general the more vouches that a user has the higher total reputation score of the user is.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to specific embodiments it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention described in this disclosure.

