---

title: Carboxymethylcellulose polyethylene glycol compositions for medical uses
abstract: Uses of compositions comprising carboxypolysaccharides (CPS) including carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) and polyethylene glycols (PEGs) are provided where the PEG is a PEG-epoxide covalently linked to the CPS in the presence of NHOH. In certain embodiments, the PEG attaches to only one CPS, forming a decorated CPS. In other embodiments, bi-functional PEG molecules are attached to adjacent CPSs, thereby forming a covalently cross-linked composition. Such compositions can be used as space-filling materials, load-bearing materials, anti-adhesion compositions, drug delivery vehicles, and lubricants of tissues and medical instruments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09381271&OS=09381271&RS=09381271
owner: FZIOMED, INC
number: 09381271
owner_city: San Luis Obispo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151020
---
This Application is a Division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 313 151 filed Jun. 24 2014 entitled Carboxymethylcellulose Polyethylene Glycol Compositions for Medical Uses Samuel J. Falcone and Richard A. Berg Inventors now U.S. Pat. No. 9 161 987 Issued Oct. 20 2015 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 998 048 filed Nov. 28 2007 entitled Carboxymethylcellulose Polyethylene Glycol Compositions for Medical Uses Samuel J. Falcone and Richard A. Berg inventors. These applications and patent are herein incorporated fully by reference.

This invention relates to compositions comprising derivatized carboxypolysaccharides CPSs and in particular carboxymethylcellulose CMC . Specifically this invention relates to CMC derivatized with polyethylene glycols PEGs to form 1 PEG decorated CMC 2 PEG ester linked to CMC under acid catalysis 3 PEG ester linked to CMC under basic catalysis and 4 PEG ether linked to CMC or CPSs and 5 uses thereof as space filling compositions load bearing compositions lubricants for antiadhesion compositions and for dermal fillers.

Carboxymethylcellulose CMC is a water soluble biocompatible and bioresorbable semi synthesized polysaccharide. The safety of commercially available CMC having high purity has been identified and approved by the Food and Drug Administration FDA for incorporation into many products. CMC is able to react with various polymers by way of electrostatic interaction ionic cross linking hydrogen bonding Van der Waals interactions and physical interpenetration. Because of its safety convenience and diversity of physico chemical properties CMC has demonstrated applications in the pharmaceutical food and cosmetic industries.

CMC is one type of carboxypolysaccharide CPS . CPSs have also been used in the manufacture of implantable polymers. CPSs are polymers made of saccharide monomers in which some of the hydroxyl OH groups are replaced with carboxyl groups COOH or COO . Thus CPSs such as CMC have some hydroxyl groups and some carboxyl groups present. Carboxylation can permit ionic interaction within a polymer chain or can permit interaction between polymer chains thereby forming a gel. Such gels have been used for a variety of applications including implantable medical polymers.

Aspects of this invention are based on the previously unknown understanding that prior implantable polymer materials exhibited undesirable properties depending upon the tissue in which they were placed. For example in tissues that have a high inherent elasticity placing a relatively inelastic polymer can result in stresses on the tissue and can lead to tissue damage and deterioration. Thus we realized that matching elasticities of tissues and of implantable polymers placed near or within those tissues can improved biocompatability of the polymer material.

Other aspects of this invention are based on the novel understanding that prior compositions containing CMC or other carboxypolysaccharides CPSs cannot permit manufacture of implantable polymers having a sufficiently controllable or wide range of elasticity and have improved biocompatibility.

Thus we developed new compositions containing CPSs either decorated with or cross linked with bi or multi functional poly ethylene glycols PEGs . In general PEGs useful in the compositions of this invention will have a glycidyl ether moiety. The glycidyl ether moiety is an epoxide which can form covalent bonds with another reactive group via an addition reaction without formation of toxic byproducts. Such PEGS are herein termed PEG epoxides. PEG epoxides may have one epoxide moiety two expoxide moieties PEG diglycidyl ether PEGDGE or may have three or more epoxide moieties multi branch PEGs or multi arm PEGs . Multi branch PEGS are PEGS in which in chain carbon atoms have an epoxide moiety. Multi arm PEGS are PEGS in which several PEG polymer chains are attached together via a hub moiety with the PEG chains having one or more epoxide moieties. It can be appreciated that PEGs having one or more glycidyl ether moieties can be used to manufacture compositions in which PEGs can have increased numbers of cross linking moieties.

In one series of embodiments a bi functional PEG PEG diglycidyl ether PEGDGE can be reacted with CPSs under basic or acidic catalysis to form compositions having covalent cross links between CPS polymer chains. It can be appreciated that multi functional PEGS e.g. bi functional PEGs or PEGDGE multi chain PEGs or multi branch PEGs can be used to form compositions having CPSs cross linked with PEGs within chain or between chains by covalent bonds.

In some embodiments a PEG epoxide can form a covalent bond with either a hydroxyl group of the CPS thereby forming an ether linkage. In other embodiments a PEG epoxide can form a covalent bond with a carboxyl group of the CPS thereby forming an ester linkage.

In some embodiments basic catalysis of PEG epoxide and CPS in the presence of sodium hydroxide NaOH can produce compositions having reduced elasticity compared to prior art CMC compositions. These new materials can be characterized by having relatively high ether content and relatively low ester content. As the relative amount of PEG epoxide is increased the elasticity of the derivatized CPS can be decreased in a controllable fashion permitting manufacture for the first time of implantable CPS containing polymers having a desired and controlled elasticity.

In other embodiments basic catalysis of a PEG epoxide and CPS in the presence of ammonium hydroxide NHOH can produce materials having increased elasticity compared to prior art CPS containing compositions. In some of these embodiments the materials are characterized by having significant ester linkages.

In further embodiments acid catalysis of a PEG epoxide and CPSs can produce materials having increased elasticity compared to prior art compositions of CPSs.

In still other embodiments if a relatively low amount of a PEG epoxide can be used compared to the number of functional groups hydroxyl groups and carboxyl groups on the CPS the PEG epoxide can bind to only one functional group thereby decorating the CPS monomer without substantial cross linking between different CPS molecules. In other embodiments using a higher amount of PEG epoxide can result in either intra chain or inter chain cross linking. Increasing the inter chain cross linking can increase elasticity of the material. Thus by adjusting the relative ratios of PEG epoxide and CPS and by adjusting the conditions of catalysis e.g. NaOH NHOH or acidic catalysis the elasticity of the resulting polymer material can be finely adjusted to match the elasticity of the tissue in which the polymer is to be implanted.

Additional aspects include use of multi arm or multi branch PEGs which can have multiple reactive epoxide moieties thereon. Use of such multi arm and or multi branch PEGs can provide gels with more cross linking per unit of CPS and therefore higher elasticity than materials made with PEGDGE a bi functional PEG .

Further in other aspects CMC PEG gels can be made and polymerized in situ without further precipitation and or purification steps. Embodiments of these aspects can be useful where ease of manufacture is desirable.

The new compositions find use in a variety of medical and other applications. Compositions containing such PEG CPS linked materials can be formed into membranes or into gels for antiadhesion uses either during primary surgery or to decrease re adhesion during corrective surgery for long term hydrogel implants and for disk replacement. Manufacture of such membranes beads particulates coatings and gels and some of their uses has been described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 096 997 6 017 301 6 034 140 6 133 325 6 566 345 6 869 938 and 7 192 984 each patent expressly incorporated herein fully by reference as if individually so incorporated.

Compositions of this invention can be useful for delivering drugs to tissues. The sites of delivery of drugs using the compositions of this invention include without limitation skin wounds mucosa internal organs endothelium mesothelium epithelium. In certain embodiments buccal optical nasal intestinal anal vaginal applications using compositions of this invention can be used.

The following definitions apply in general to the descriptions that follow. In certain cases however a term may be defined differently. In those cases the proper definition will be provided.

The term cross linking or crosslinking means covalent bonding of two polysaccharide chains together using a chemical reagent.

The term CMC means sodium carboxymethylcellulose. CMC A is Hercules CMC grade 7H PH lot 82666. CMC B is Hercules grade 9M31F PH lot 90252. CMC C is Hercules grade 7H PH lot 92013.

The term cross linker or crosslinker means a chemical agent used in the covalent bonding of two polysaccharide chains to one another.

The term PEO means polyethylene oxide a polymer made up of repeating units of compounds containing O CH CH . PEOs have molecular weights of greater than about 5000 kDa.

The term Dalton or D means a unit of molecular mass where one D is equivalent to the mass of a proton.

The term PEG or polyethylene glycol means a polymer made of repeating units of compounds containing O CH CH but having molecular weights in the range of about 200 Daltons to about 5000 kDa.

The term epoxide means an organic functional group with an oxygen atom bonded to two adjacent carbon atoms which has a chemical formula CH O CH. An epoxide is also herein termed a glycidyl ether. An epoxide is a very reactive functional group that can be used in cross linking or decoration reactions.

The term glycidyl ether means an organic functional group that contains the moiety CH O CH. An example is poly ethylene glycol diglycidyl ether PEGDGE a crosslinker used in embodiments of this invention. It should be appreciated that multi branched PEGs and multi arm PEGs are included within the meaning of glycidyl ether. 

The term ether linkage means an organic functional group composed of a carbon to oxygen to carbon bond. An example contains a C O C linkage.

The term ester linkage as used herein for polymerization means an organic functional group composed of a O C R group where R is a polymer.

The term transmural pressure means the hydrostatic pressure inside the sac minus the hydrostatic pressure outside the sac.

The term Laplace s laws refer to two relationships between transmural pressure radius of a containment device e.g. a bag or a sac and the wall stress. For a sphere the wall tension T Pressure P times Radius R or T PR. For a cylinder T PR 2.

The term viscosity refers to a liquid like property of a material having a relatively high resistance to flow in response to an applied force. Viscosity is a measure of the viscous or liquid like nature of the material.

The term viscoelastic means a property of polymeric materials that have both elastic solid like and viscous liquid like properties.

The term elasticity means a rheological property defined as the contribution of the elastic modulus G to the overall stiffness of the material. Elasticity includes Percent Elasticity as a specific example.

The term pseudoplastic means a rheological property of some polymer solutions characterized by a decrease in solution viscosity at increasing shear rates.

The term thixotropy means a rheological property of some polymer solutions characterized by a time dependent decrease in solution viscosity at a constant shear.

The term Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy FTIR Spectroscopy or FTIR means an analytical technique that is used to detect various organic functional groups such as esters ethers etc. FTIR is based on absorbance of infrared electromagnetic radiation by molecules such as functional groups .

The term carboxymethyl anhydroglucose unit or CMAG unit or CMAG is an individual repeat unit of a polysaccharide polymer chain.

The term CMAG EP ratio or CMAG EP means the ratio of CMAG equivalents to epoxide equivalents in the cross linking reaction.

The term Multi Arm PEG refers to PEGs that are formed around a core molecule permitting multiple PEG molecules to be covalently bonded to the core. A multi arm PEG includes a 4 arm PEG a 6 arm PEG or any PEG having multiple PEGs attached to a core molecule.

The term Multi Branch PEG refers to a single PEG polymer having in chain epoxide moieties attached thereto. Multi branched PEGs may be characterized by having a particular ratio of epoxide ethylene oxide moieties. A fully derivatized multi branch PEG will have an epoxide ethylene oxide ratio of 2. However it should be understood that multi branch PEGs may have epoxide ethylene oxide ratios of less than 2 and that the ratio on average need not be integral in a plurality of PEG molecules.

The term base catalysis means a chemical reaction that is speeded up or enhanced in the presence of a base.

The term acid catalysis means a chemical reaction that is speeded up or enhanced in the presence of an acid.

The term ionic cross linking or ionic crosslinking is a method of combining constituents through ionic bonds.

The descriptions of specific embodiments is intended to illustrate aspects of this invention and is not intended to limit the scope of this invention. It can be appreciated that other applications of the compositions described herein can be developed by persons of ordinary skill in the art without undue experimentation. All of those embodiments are considered part of this invention.

This invention includes a variety of compositions having CMCs and PEGs linked with ether or ester bonds. CMCs are polymers composed of sugar residues linked together and each of which may have a carboxyl residue attached to the sugar moiety. There are three 3 potential sites for carboxylation on each sugar residue of CMC. Because a carboxyl residue can be chemically reactive those locations on CMC are potential sites for derivatization. By controlling the degree of substitution DS or ds of the CMC the number of active groups on the derivatized CMC can be controlled.

 1 as space filling materials including those suitable for implantation as load bearing compositions placed at locations where compressive loads may occur such as in the spinal cord for augmentation or replacement of the nucleus pulposus 

 2 as delivery vehicles for controlled release of bioactive substances such as drugs growth factors active peptides genes cells clotting factors such as thrombin and antibiotics hormones including epinephrine steroids anti inflammatory agents and the like and vasoconstrictors such as norepinephine and the like 

 3 as delivery vehicles for the localized release of bioactive substances such as drugs growth factors active peptides genes cells clotting factors such as thrombin and antibiotics hormones including epinephrine steroids anti inflammatory agents and the like and vasoconstrictors such as norepinephine and the like 

 4 as binders for protein coupling and fatty absorption in both tissue engineering and food industries 

 6 tissue coating and tissue protection from fibrosis neurotoxins inflammatory mediators free radicals and other harmful materials 

Useful properties include but are not limited to bioadhesion bioresorbability antiadhesion viscosity and physical interpenetration.

The PEG CMC compositions of this invention can be prepared into one or more of several forms including gels membranes beads sponges and coatings.

The technology to link CMC and other CPSs with PEG epoxides has wide potential for medical devices and includes two types of compositions. One includes methods to decorate CMCs with PEGs without cross linking CMC molecules together. Another includes methods to cross link CMC molecules together using PEG epoxides. Reactions of CMCs with a PEG epoxide is an addition reaction and therefore produces no known toxic by products. Un reacted PEG epoxides can be hydrolyzed to PEG diols which are known to be biologically compatible.

In contrast some prior art cross linking agents can produce undesirable side products. For example carbiodiimide can cross link polymers but because their reaction is not a simple addition reaction reactive by products are typically produced which can react with tissues to produce unwanted side effects. Such side effects can cause serious side effects especially in uses where the polymer composition is intended to remain in place for prolonged periods of time.

Similarly other prior art cross linking agents can exhibit unwanted side effects. For example acrylates such as diacrylate dimethacrylate diacrylamide and dimethacrylamide all produce reactive by products in some cases highly toxic by products. Similarly hydrazides tosylates thiol containing CPSs such as thiolated HA and photoactivatable cross linkers generally produce toxic by products thereby limiting their biocompatibility.

The types of CPSs that can be included in this invention is not limited to CMC. Rather carboxyethyl cellulose CEC hydroxymethyl cellulose cellulose and other cellulose derivatives.

Compared to prior art CPSs CMC can be particularly useful in situations where it is desired that the residence time of the CPS in tissue be increased. For example hyaluronic acid HA is a common CPS present in many tissues. HA has been used for implantable compositions but HA can be degraded by tissue enzymes more readily than CMC. CMC is highly biocompatible with little if any known side effects and is well tolerated even after prolonged exposure to tissues.

PEG CMC compositions of this invention can be particularly useful to fill voids in tissues resulting from disease or injury. For example removal of a tumor during a surgical procedure can result in a loss of tissue volume. In situations in which organ or tissue function depends on the shape of the organ or tissue PEG CMC compositions of this invention can be used to fill the void. Similarly in injuries such as excavating injuries in which tissue volume is lost PEG CMC compositions of this invention can be used to fill those voids.

Additionally in situations in which tissue volume is lost through degeneration or other causes PEG CMC PEG CPS compositions of this invention can be used to decrease adverse effects of such tissue loss. In certain aspects PEG CMC compositions of this invention can be used in load bearing capacities. For example voids in the bone bone voids of a vertebral body e.g. caused by surgical removal of a tumor or degeneration of a vertebral disk nucleus can result in pain loss of sensation and or loss of motion or function due in some cases to compression of spinal nerves. PEG CMC compositions can be made with varying degrees of cross linking and in cases in which there is a high degree of cross linking the compositions can support increased loads. To make such compositions the CMC can be used having a lower molecular weight so that higher concentrations of CMC may be used resulting in more ether and carboxyl groups available for cross linking. Also using PEG epoxides having lower molecular weights multi arm PEGs and or multi branch PEGs can increase the number of covalent cross links cross link density in the matrix. As the cross link density increases the ability of the matrix to support a load can increase. Thus in certain aspects highly cross linked PEG CPS compositions can be used as nucleus replacements or to fill other bone voids.

In certain of these embodiments a PEG CMC or PEG CPS composition can be placed in a biocompatible sac or bag within the intervertebral space other bone void where the disk and or disk nucleus was present or in other locations where containment of the composition of this invention is desired. A bag can be made of a silicone based polymer such as Silastic or another less deformable material such as Mylar or other suitable material. It can be desirable to use a bag that has sufficient strength to resist breakage under the loads expected to be placed on the bag. Additionally because both the PEG CPS composition and the wall tension under Laplace s law can resist a load these embodiments can be used in situations in which relatively large loads are to be borne.

Thus in some embodiments a biologically compatible bag which may have a one way valve to permit introduction of material into the bag but won t permit unwanted loss of material of an appropriate size to fit within the intervertebral space or other location can be inserted in a deflated condition. Such insertion can minimize trauma to the vertebral bodies and the annulus. Once inserted into place a PEG CPS cross linked composition can be introduced into the bag using a needle. Once in the bag the PEG CPS composition can polymerize to form a load bearing structure thereby replacing the lost or damaged nucleus. In embodiments in which there is frank loss of bone e.g. due to removal of a tumor a PEG CPS composition can be formed to the desired shape as determined by x ray CAT scanning or other imaging method . The replacement PEG CPS load bearing compositions generally can be surgically implanted. Alternatively a biocompatible bag or sac can be inserted in a deflated condition as described above for nucleus replacement and then filled with a PEG CPS composition which is then permitted to polymerize into the load bearing material.

In some embodiments multiple bags or sacs can be used. In particular in situations in which high loads are to be expected e.g. the knee ankles or other lower extremities or lower back the use of multiple small sacs can be employed to take advantage of the fact of the well known Laplace relationship between transmural pressure radius and wall stress of a closed sac. As used herein the term transmural pressure means the hydrostatic pressure inside the sac minus the hydrostatic pressure outside the sac. Thus for a given transmural pressure a sac having a smaller radius will have lower wall stress placed upon the sac. In contrast a larger sac will have larger wall stress at the same transmural pressure because of the larger radius.

Based on the Laplace relationships one for a sphere T PR and another for a cylinder T PR 2 in certain embodiments of this invention one can use a series of small cylindrical sacs each inserted into the bone void and filled with PEG CPS composition of this invention. It can be desirable to align the longitudinal axes of the small sacs in parallel with the expected load. Thus during polymerization the small sacs can support the load better than a single sac having larger radius.

Additionally in situations in which the annulus is damaged one can introduce one or more sacs in the intervertebral space with one near the hole in the annulus. Thus when filled the sac near the hole in the annulus can effectively seal the hole and minimize further loss of intervertebral material. In other embodiments smaller sacs can be inserted and filled to support the load and a larger plug sac can be introduced into the intervertebral space. If this plug sac is then inflated with PEG CPS composition of this invention the sac can effectively plug the hole in the annulus and thus prevent the smaller sacs from being extruded.

PEG CMC compositions of this invention can be used to deliver drugs biologicals nutrients or other biologically active agents bioactive substances to an animal. PEG CMC compositions can be made incorporating a bioactive substance therein to provide a controlled release composition. In general PEG CMC compositions having more cross links tend to retain bioactive substances more than compositions having fewer cross links. Such is the case for bioactive substances that are released from a PEG CMC composition by simple diffusion out of the PEG CMC matrix. In some cases in which the bioactive substance is large e.g. protein the bioactive substance may be released by a combination of simple diffusion out of the PEG CMC matrix and by release as the PEG CMC matrix is degraded in the body.

Regardless of which type of release occurs it can be appreciated that the release of bioactive agents can be controlled as desired by varying the composition of the PEG CMC composition of this invention. It is not intended that the type of bioactive substance be limited. Rather any bioactive substance whose release is desired to be controlled can be effectively delivered using PEG CMC compositions of this invention.

In situations in which local release of a bioactive substance is desired a PEG CMC composition of this invention can be useful. Such situations may apply during tissue healing after surgery where localized trauma to tissues produces localized inflammation. Thus a PEG CMC composition of this invention may contain a vasoactive substance to control bleeding e.g. a vasoconstrictor such as norepinephrine or to promote hemostasis e.g. a clotting factor . PEG CMC compositions of this invention can also be useful for localized delivery of toxic agents in chemotherapy. For example after tumor resection surgery it may be desired to administer locally to the site a PEG CMC composition having a chemotherapeutic agent incorporated therein. Such localized application may permit application of higher concentrations of anti tumor medications at the site needed while reducing systemic side effects of traditional intravenous injection.

Other uses include more general uses of proteins fats and other biological substances whether bioactive or not. Thus proteins can be incorporated into space filling PEG CMC compositions of this invention. Such proteins may include collagen gelatin of other proteins known in the art.

PEG CMC compositions of this invention can be effective lubricants for medical instruments. In situations in which a medical instrument is inserted into a body there is a likelihood of at least some tissue trauma resulting. Trauma even slight trauma can cause tissue damage and can result in unwanted effects. Such effects include bleeding inflammation adhesion formation or scarring. By coating a medical instrument with a PEG CMC composition of this invention prior to insertion into the body such trauma can be decreased.

Lubrication can be used for both acute and chronic uses. Thus for an acute procedure such as urethral catherization a PEG CMC composition of this invention can be used to decrease pain and other discomfort as well as ease insertion. By decreasing urethral trauma use of PEG CMC compositions of this invention can decrease post catheterization side effects including decreasing pain on urination urethral adhesions and decreased likelihood of infection.

PEG CMC compositions of this invention can also be effective tissue lubricants. In situations in which tissues traumatize adjacent tissues e.g. in joints compositions of this invention can be used to decrease friction and thereby decrease localized trauma. Thus by injecting a PEG CMC composition into an affected joint pain can be reduced. By reducing friction and pain the usual cascade of inflammation can be inhibited. By inhibiting inflammation secondary adverse effects of inflammation can be decreased. Such adverse effects can be mediated by macrophages leukocytes mast cells eosinophils and mononuclear cells among others each of which can produce bioactive substances that can make the situation worse. For example mast cells contain potent proteases e.g. mast cell tryptase and mast cell chymotryptase that can degrade normal tissue proteins. Additionally a series of interleukins can be released from neutrophils macrophages and other inflammatory cells. Interleukins can be potent chemoattractive molecules and can recruit other inflammatory cells locally to the area and can thereby continue adverse side effects of tissue trauma. Finally tissue trauma can activate neuropeptide containing nerves e.g. c fibers known to contain substance P which is a potent stimulus of pain pathways. In addition to causing pain substance P is a potent chemoattractant and stimulator of mast cells.

In certain embodiments PEG CPS compositions of this invention can be used to lubricate joints such as those in the spine. In particular PEG CPS compositions can be used to lubricate facet joints between adjacent lateral spinous processes. Similarly compositions of this invention are useful as lubricants for other joints including the knee shoulder elbows wrists ankles and hips.

PEG CMC compositions of this invention have wide applicability as tissue coating agents. PEG CMC compositions can be used as anti adhesion preparations. Adhesions are unwanted attachments of a tissue with an adjacent tissue. Adhesions commonly occur after surgery in which tissues are damaged as a result of the surgery. Thus PEG CMC compositions of this invention can be effectively used to provide a physical barrier between tissues that would otherwise tend to adhere to each other. PEG CMC compositions may be membranes gels or sponges. Many anti adhesion uses are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 096 997 6 017 301 6 034 140 6 133 325 6 566 345 6 869 938 and 7 192 984 each patent expressly incorporated herein fully by reference as if individually so incorporated.

Augmentation of the skin can be an important factor in recovering from injury or for cosmetic purposes. For example with normal aging skin may become loose or creases can form such as nasal labial nasolabial folds. In the face creases or lines may adversely affect a person s self esteem or even a career. Thus there has been a need for compositions and methods that can diminish the appearance of creases or lines.

Further there are situations in which loss of tissue can leave an indentation in the skin. For example surgical removal of a dermal cyst lipoatrophy or removal of a solid tumor can result in loss of tissue volume. In other cases injuries such as gunshot wounds knife wounds or other excavating injures may leave an indentation in the skin. Regardless of the cause it can be desirable to provide a dermal filler that can increase the volume of tissue to provide a smoother or more even appearance.

Several compositions are available for such purposes. Collagen is often used as an injectable material for soft tissue augmentation. Additionally numerous other materials including proteins fats hyaluronic acid HA polyalcohols and other polymers have been used as injectable dermal fillers. However non cross linked hydrophilic polymers such as collagen gelatin and HA have not performed well and must be covalently cross linked to remain in place to be effective. One example is ZYDERM which is uncrosslinked bovine collagen was not effective as a dermal filler unless it was first cross linked with glutaraldehyde to convert it to ZYPLAST . Similarly HA has not been sufficiently effective as a space filling material when injected or implanted in the body unless it is first cross linked.

Compositions of CMC and modified CMC have unique properties that allow such compositions to be injected into the skin to fill spaces and to provide support where support is desired. One example for needed support is dermal augmentation in the face where dermal and subdermal volume is lost due to aging. CMC has a unique property of being an elastic gel with unique physical properties such as dynamic plastic and zero shear viscosity tissue adhesiveness cohesiveness and flow characteristics. In addition it can achieve these properties without the requirement of covalent cross linking. CMC is particularly unique because chemical modifications of CMC expand the number of physical properties that make it an ideal injectable polymer for human treatment. For example change in the degree of substitution has a dramatic effect on thixotropy and on viscosity of the gel. Its biocompatability and viscoelastic properties make it uniquely useful for injection into human skin where it becomes a space filling biocompatible polymer.

Other polymers tested for their ability to perform as space filling gels are polysaccharides that have been used for soft tissue filing are inferior to CMC. For example HA must be cross linked to cause it to function as an elastic gel. Cross linking limits its ability to be injected through narrow gauge needles because the cross linking converts HA into particles. For example RESTYLANE is a product consisting of cross linked HA in a compatible solution.

Proteins used for dermal augmentation such as collagen also must be cross linked to perform well as dermal fillers. For example ZYPLAST is a cross linked bovine collagen dermal filler.

CMC can be a carrier for additional material for additional material for the skin including hydrogel polymers such as PEO and emulsions. CMC can be used to deliver drugs to the skin such as antioxidants retinol vitamins and growth factors. Covalent cross linking of polymers converts them into particles that diminish their ability to deliver additional polymers liposomes emulsions or other particulates.

Numerous substances have been tested over the years for augmenting soft tissue in the dermis in the face to improve cosmesis by filling depressions in the skin Klein and Elson Dermatological Surgery 26 1096 1105 2000 . This is an area that continues to be studied as there has been no clearly superior material or product Hotta Plastic Surgical Nursing 24 1 14 19 2004 . These fillers are prepared from several polymers including bovine collagen porcine collagen chicken or bacteria fermented HA gelatin all of which are cross linked covalently to reduce their dissolution time or immunological reactions. Fillers also include autologous human collagen cross linked collagen from the patient human cadaver dermis cross linked human collagen . Additional fillers are those that are insoluble in the dermis including PMMA beads dPTFE expanded polytetrofluoroethylene poly lactic acid recombinant elastin and thermoplastics that form gels when injected into humans Klein and Elson Dermatological Surgery 26 1096 1105 2000 . More recently ceramic particles U.S. Pat. No. 5 922 025 and also PMMA microspheres Lemperle et al Plast. Reconstr. Surg 113 5 1380 1390 2004 have been used for soft tissue augmentation.

Dermal fillers are used to fill scars depressions and wrinkles. Dermal filler substances have various inflammatory responses in the dermis including phagocytosis to foreign body reactions depending on the material Lemperle et al. Aesthetic Plast. Surg. 27 5 354 366 discussion 367 2003 . One goal of dermal fillers it to temporarily augment the dermis to correct the surface contour of the skin without producing an unacceptable inflammatory reaction hypersensitivity reaction or foreign body reaction that causes pain redness or excessive scar formation for a period of time.

One of the first materials to be used for dermal augmentation is ZYPLAST derived form bovine collagen. A newer material used for this application is RESTYLANE derived from bacteria produced HA. Because challenges include both biocompatibility and persistence in the skin new dermal fillers are compared to one of the existing products such as ZYPLAST or RESTYLANE Narins et al. Dermatol. Surg. 29 588 595 2003 .

More recently CMC has been used with polyethylene oxide PEO and multivalent ions to produce ionically linked materials U.S. Pat. No. 7 192 984 incorporated herein fully by reference .

However it should be appreciated that CMC need not be the only CPS used. Rather any CPS can be used in manufacture of PEG CPS compositions in similar fashions without departing from the scope of this invention.

To manufacture CPS PEG or CMC PEG compositions of this invention generally the CPS is dissolved in aqueous medium such as water saline phosphate buffered saline or other suitable medium. For example dissolving CMC is aqueous media is generally accomplished by adding a pre weighed amount of powdered dry CMC into a vessel containing the medium with stirring such as with a vortex mixer until the CMC is completely dissolved. In some embodiments CMC can be present in a concentration of from about 1 by weight to about 30 by weight. In other embodiments CMC can be present in a concentration of about 3 to about 15 by weight. The molecular weights of CMC can be in the range of from about 50 000 D to about 1 000 000 D alternatively from about 90 kD to about 700 kD.

To react PEG with the CMC a pre weighed amount of PEG with epoxide moieties is added to the CMC solution under stifling until the PEG is dissolved. Then a catalyst is added to initiate the reaction. Generally the reaction is permitted to go to completion and the CMC PEG composition is precipitated from solution dried and then reconstituted in solution for analysis and or use. In some embodiments the solution can be a physiologically compatible solution with biocompatible pH ionic strength and colloid osmotic pressure. It can be appreciated that single chain multi branched or multi arm PEGs having epoxide moieties thereon can be used.

PEGDGE can be used in a concentration of about 0.01 to about 20 . The molecular weights of PEG can be in the range of 200 D to about 50 000 D and in alternative embodiments from about 500 D to about 8000 D.

In certain embodiments NaCl can be used in a concentration in the range of about 0.001 to about 10 and alternatively from about 0.01 to about 5.0 . In certain embodiments isotonic saline can be used e.g. about 0.9 .

If desired multivalent ions can be added to the solution to produce ionically linked materials. CaCl HO can be used in concentrations of from about 0.001 to about 50 and in alternatives from about 0.01 to about 10 . In other embodiments CMC PEG compositions can be made in phosphate buffered saline.

Catalysts can be used to initiate cross linking. For example acetic acid and citric acid can be used. Citric acid can be used in a concentration of from about 0.001 to about 50 or alternatively from about 0.01 to about 10 . Acetic acid can be used in a concentration of about 0.001 to about 100 alternatively about 1 to about 20 . Base catalysis can be accomplished using NaOH in a concentration of about 0.001 to about 80 alternatively about 5 to about 20 . NHOH can be used in a concentration of about 0.001 to about 40 alternatively from about 1 to about 20 .

Additionally pH can be varied to produce compositions that have some hydrogen bonded components. Useful pH ranges can be in the range of about 6.0 to about 7.5. Adjusting pH can be accomplished by immersing a CMC PEG composition in a buffer solution at the appropriate pH.

In other embodiments CMC PEG compositions can be used directly after mixing the CMC and PEG epoxide together without subsequent precipitation and reconstitution. Thus a CMC PEGDGE solution can be prepared and drawn into a syringe the syringe can then be sterilized e.g. using steam and the cross linking reaction can proceed. When the reaction has occurred the resulting material can be instilled into a desired location through a small gauge e.g. 29 or 30 gauge needle. In other embodiments solutions of CMC and PEG can be sterilized before mixing.

It can be appreciated that in addition to PEGDGE other PEG epoxides can be used in fashions similar to those used for PEGDGE. Thus multi arm PEGs multi branch PEGs or PEG epoxides having different molecular weights can be used without departing from the scope of this invention.

Once a CMC PE composition is prepared its viscoelastic properties can be readily determined using equipment and methods known in the art. Small deformation oscillation measurements were carried out with a Thermo Haake RS300 Rheometer Newington N.H. in the cone and plate geometry. All measurements were performed with a 35 mm 1 titanium cone sensor at 25 C. The elastic modulus G and loss modulus G were obtained over a frequency range of 0.628 198 rad sec. Tan 8 was calculated as G G .

Sodium carboxymethylcellulose CMC was obtained from Hercules and poly ethylene glycol diglycidyl ether PEGDGE was obtained from Sigma Aldrich Corporation. According to manufacturer CMC A had an average Mn of 700 000 Da and CMC B had a average Mn of 200 000 Da. Rheological measurements were performed on gels prepared at 30 mg ml solids concentration in BupH Modified Dulbecco s Phosphate Buffered Saline solution PBS purchased from Pierce Chemical catalog No. 28374 . The solutions were prepared by stirring or CMC into the PBS at room temperature for at least two hours. The resultant solutions were clear and colorless with no solids evident and thus were used without filtration.

CMC PEG compositions can be sterilized using any conventional method such as steam sterilization irradiation or filtration.

To determine the compressive strength of PEG CPS compositions a suitably shaped piece of material e.g. 1 inch 1 inch 0.25 inches can be prepared and placed on a surface such as a table. Once polymerization has occurred a load e.g. a known weight can be placed on the composition. The weights can be progressively increased until the composition fractures. Alternatively a composition can be placed in a vise with a pressure gauge inserted and the load increased progressively until the composition fractures.

CPSs can be derivatized with PEGs to form either non cross linked materials decorated CPSs or as cross linked materials of this invention. As used herein for PEG the term decoration decorating and like terms refer to covalent attachment of a PEG via one end of the PEG to one site on a CPS molecule. Because only one end of the PEG is attached to the CPS the other end of the PEG is unbound. Decorated CPSs therefore are not cross linked to other CPS molecules nearby or to themselves via intra CPS bonds. Thus the CPS has side chains of PEG decorating the CPS molecule. In other embodiments the CPS PEG composition can be prepared so that intra chain and or inter chain covalent bonding can occur.

To ensure that only one end of the linker is coupled to the CPS strand one can use a molar excess based on the degree of substitution of the CPS of the CPS. For example one can use a molar ratio of active carboxylic acid groups to linker in the range of about 20 about 50 to provide a high degree of non cross linked CPS or CMC. Alternatively by using a lower molar ratio relatively more cross linking between CPS molecules can be achieved. In embodiments in which a highly cross linked CPS is desired one can use a relatively low e.g. from less than about 0.5 to about 20 molar ratio of carboxyl residues to linkers. It can be appreciated that using a molar excess of linker molecules in a solution containing non constrained CPS molecules e.g. a relatively dilute solution of CPS can promote derivatization of CPS with little cross linking. However in situations in which CPS molecules are constrained e.g. high CPS concentrations or are tightly packed together there may be an increased tendency for cross links to form between different CPS chains. It can be readily appreciated that workers of skill in the art can select a molar ratio of carboxyl residues to linker molecules to produce a desired degree of cross linked CPSs.

CPSs decorated with PEGs typically have lower elasticity and higher viscosity than un decorated CPSs. Thus CMC decorated with PEG can be more adherent to tissues and additionally may be more useful in situations in which un decorated CMC may have reduced biocompatability compared to PEG decorated CMC.

In one series of embodiments the glycyldyl ether moiety of PEG can react with either of the two types of reactive moieties on a CPX namely a hydroxyl or a carboxyl group. If PEG reacts with a hydroxyl group the resulting molecule contains an ether linkage. In cases where the PEG bonds with a carboxyl group on a CPS the resulting molecule contains an ester linkage.

In situations in which there is a molar excess of PEG relative to the number of reactive moieties on the CPS the favored reaction is between one PEG and one CPS without substantial intrachain crosslinking of the CPSs together. Such PEG decorated CPSs have particular usefulness for compositions in which the elasticity is relatively low in contrast to crosslinked PEG CPS compositions.

Decorating CMC with PEG can increase the biocompatability of the composition. Decorating CPS with PEG can also decrease the elasticity of the composition because the derivatized material will have fewer free hydroxyls available in a CPS with high degree of substitution d.s. . With fewer reactive groups available the thixotropy of the material will be also be decreased.

In situations where a more elastic composition is desired one can cross link CPSs together using PEGDGE in which the relative amounts of CPS and PEGDGE are more equal. In certain embodiments one can use increased amounts of CPS relative to PEGDGE thereby favoring reactions in which one PEGDGE molecule forms covalent bonds with two CPS molecules.

It can be appreciated that because of the two types of reactive moieties on a CPS e.g. a carboxyl group and an ether group PEG cross linked CPSs can have either ester or ether linkages or an ester link at one end of the PEG and an ether link at the other end of the PEG.

We have also found that the reaction conditions can affect the types of reactions that occur. For example acid catalyzed addition of PEGDGE to CPS can produce one type of cross linked composition whereas base catalyzed addition of PEGDGE to CPS can produce another type of cross linked composition. Each of these two types of reactions produce PEG cross linked CPSs having desirable different properties.

In addition to PEGDGE a bi functional PEG multi functional PEGs can be used. Multi branch PEGs and multi arm PEGs can be used to make CMC PEG compositions having increased cross linking. For example use of these types of PEGs can permit more rapid polymerization. Thus such materials can be prepared shortly before implantation and after implantation in situ cross linking can occur to produce a longer lasting more elastic material. Such compositions can be particularly desirable in situations where a void is to be filled or where a disk nucleus has become damaged and spinal nerves are impinged upon by vertebral bodies or spinous processes.

It can be appreciated that one can increase the elasticity and or stiffness of a CMC PEG composition by using more reactive species. It is known that increasing the MWs of CMCs or CPSs produces solutions having higher viscosity and may thus be more difficult to manipulate. Conversely decreasing the MW of the CMC can produce aqueous solutions having lower viscosities. One can increase the amount of cross linking by using CMCs or CPSs having lower molecular weights. By using lower MW CMCs one can increase the total mass of CMC that can be effectively dissolved while maintaining a solution viscosity sufficiently low to be easily manipulated. Thus with the addition of an appropriate amount of PEG epoxide sufficient to provide a CMAG EP ratio needed to produce a cross linked composition having a desired elasticity the reaction rate can be increased permitting more easy preparation of materials.

Such rapid cross linking reactions may be particularly desirable for use in situ in locations where rapid administration is desired. In some embodiments the components can be sterilized before use and the final preparation can be prepared from sterile solutions. In these situations a rapidly cross reacting mixture can be prepared and then introduced into the site.

From the above discussion there may be multiple ways of increasing the rate of cross linking reactions. Increasing the amount of PEGDGE or multifunctional PEG decreasing the MW of the CMC or CPS increasing the amount of initiator or catalyst can either alone or in combination be used to produce compositions that can polymerize sufficiently rapidly to be useful for situations including use in load bearing joints excavating injuries surgical procedures and the like. One can also use an in situ polymerizing composition to provide long lasting dermal filling of the more conventional nature such as filling nasolabial folds crow s feet and other dermal lines.

In certain embodiments to produce acid catalyzed products of CMC and PEG we used the materials and conditions shown below in Table 1.

It can be appreciated that the above reaction conditions are illustrative only and other conditions CPSs acids pH ratios of CMAG EP and the like can be used to produce variations of the compositions of this invention that have variations in elasticity. In general we found that using stronger acids e.g. acetic acid tended to produce compositions having increased elasticity. We also found that higher reaction temperatures tended to produce more elastic materials. Moreover we found that using CMAG EP ratios of below about 10 tended to produce compositions having greater elasticity than compositions made with higher ratios of CMAG EP. However using strong acid e.g. acetic acid at high temperature e.g. 40 C. and a very low ratio of CMAG EP e.g. 2.4 produced a composition that was so highly cross linked that it was insoluble.

We also found that both reacted materials have slightly lower complex viscosity at low frequencies than the un derivatized CMC. At high frequencies the un derivatized CMC had a much higher complex viscosity than the derivatized CMC. There are two components of the magnitude of the complex viscosity the storage viscosity G and the dynamic viscosity G . We found that low frequencies the dynamic viscosity is much higher for the un derivatized CMC than for the derivatized CMC. This finding indicates that the loss modules G is higher at low frequencies and has a greater contribution to the complex modulus at low deformation rates.

In certain embodiments we react glycidyl ethers with CMC using base catalysis. In certain embodiments sodium hydroxide NaOH and ammonium hydroxide NHOH can be used. We found that basic catalysis using NaOH produced cross linked compositions having little ester and were therefore predominately ether linked compositions. These compositions have lower elasticity than the un derivatized CMC. Base catalyzed materials have in general lower elasticity than un derivatized CMC. The elasticity of the gel can be altered by adjusting the epoxide to hydroxyl ratio. As the ratio is decreased elasticity increases. Conversely as the epoxide content is increased the elasticity of the composition decreases. In certain of these embodiments highly cross linked compositions are not formed and the reaction produces PEG Decorated CMC.

In contrast we found that base catalysis using NHOH produced compositions having some ester formation. NHOH catalyzed PEGDGE CMC reactions produce compositions having reduced elasticity and are highly hydrated swollen hydrogels.

In situations in which it is undesirable to expose a tissue to either acidic or basic compositions a PEG CPS polymer can be made using neutral conditions. Epoxides can react with carboxyl groups or with ether groups under neutral conditions although the rates of the polymerization reactions are typically shower than those initiated under either acidic or basic conditions. However the rate of reaction can be increased by increasing the number of reactive moieties available for the reaction. Thus using CPSs or PEGs having lower average molecular weights using multi branch PEGs multi arm PEGs or combinations of each of these components one can produce polymer compositions with high degrees of cross linking and therefore higher compressive strength and higher elasticity compared to compositions made with bi functional PEGs and high molecular weight components.

As noted above CMC PEG compositions may be conveniently sterilized using heat. In some embodiments the composition may be heated in an autoclave or other steam producing apparatus. In some cases it can be desirable to prepare a CMC PEG composition and then place it into a delivery device such as a syringe. CMC PEG compositions can be made using a 3 step process in which 1 a CMC PEG mixture is obtained 2 an initiator is added to start the cross linking reaction and 3 where the cross linked material is precipitated and reconstituted. Alternatively a CMC PEG composition can be made using a one step process in which the CMC PEG solution is made with an initiator and then placed in a delivery device for sterilization. In these situations heating not only sterilized the composition but it also increases the rate of cross linking. After sterilization in situ the CMC PEG composition is ready to use.

CMC PEG compositions of this invention can be used as space filling materials delivery vehicles for bioactive substances load bearing materials anti adhesion compositions and or lubricants for tissues joints medical instruments dermal fillers and other medical applications.

In other embodiments space filling materials can be used to provide bulk in internal locations. For example in situations where a void has been created as a result of removal of internal tissue e.g. removal of a sebacious cyst bullet wound removal of a localized tumor in an area not subject to large movements e.g. the torso an implant can be made having a desired shape and having a desired elasticity. Such space filling materials made according to the principles of this invention can be highly biocompatible having long residence times in the body. Such materials can be made in any particularly desired shape. Thus if the void is irregular the surgeon can shape the implant to match the void. After making a surgical incision through the skin the implant is inserted and the wound sutured. Alternatively the surgeon can inject a composition comprising a gel having particles of PEG CMC material therein. After introduction into the void the material can conform to the shape of the void thereby providing a uniform appearing structure.

In still further embodiments space filling materials can be contained within a biocompatible sac. For example one can insert a PEG CMC cross linked composition into the spine to provide support in situations where the nucleus of a vertebral disk has become damaged. By encasing PEG CMC compositions within a sac the implanted material can resist compressive forces and therefore can be used to avoid nerve pinching a common cause of pain in subjects with degenerating disks.

In still further embodiments PEG CMC materials of this invention can be dried to form membranes. As described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 906 997 incorporated herein fully by reference CPS PEO membranes can be made by preparing a gel and then drying the gel. Similar membranes can be made using PEG CMC compositions of this invention.

In additional aspects PEG CPS compositions can be used to support loads within the skeletal system. For example the spine is often a location where degeneration injury or disease can produce loss of structural support. In particular in conditions in which the disk is damaged PEG CPS compositions of this invention can be readily used. In situations in which the nucleus pulposus is partially or completely lost compositions of this invention can be used to replace the lost tissue. In some of these embodiments an elastic relatively non compressible composition can be polymerized before insertion into the affected area. In other situations one can administer a composition of this invention prior to its polymerization so that the composition polymerizes in situ. For example in situations in which there is frank loss of bone producing an irregularly shaped defect a mixture of components of this invention can be injected. After polymerization the composition can fit well into the defect thereby providing structural support.

In other situations compositions of this invention can be placed within one or more bags or sacs. These embodiments can have increased load bearing abilities due to the facts that 1 a composition can be supported against compression by the bag or sac and or 2 the composition has its own load bearing abilities.

In still further embodiments compositions of this invention can be used as antiadhesion materials. Methods for using CMC compositions for antiadhesion purposes are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 906 997 6 017 301 6 034 140 6 133 325 6 193 731 6 869 938 and 7 192 984. Each of the aforementioned patents are expressly incorporated by reference as if separately so incorporated. It can be readily appreciated that gels membranes and other forms of the CMC PEG compositions of this invention can be used in similar ways.

It can be readily appreciated that any number of drugs biologicals and other chemical agents can be delivered using the CMC PEG composites of this invention. Certain agents can be advantageously used for local delivery providing desired concentration at a desired site but while decreasing undesirable systemic effects. Such agents include but are not limited to therapeutic proteins such as thrombin to aid in attaining and maintaining hemostasis growth factors for bone cartilage skin and other tissue and cell types. Some of these peptide and protein growth factors include bone morphogenic protein BMP epidermal growth factor EGF connective tissue growth factor CTGF platelet derived growth factor PDGF angiotensin and related peptides and RGD containing peptides.

Additionally locally acting drugs include fungicides histamine antihistamine anti inflammatory drugs methotrexate local anesthetics angiogenesis promoting drugs e.g. to treat cardiovascular disease and anti angiogenesis factors e.g. to treat tumors .

DNA based therapeutics including antisense DNA gene therapeutics and RNA based therapeutics are also suitably delivered using the compositions of this invention. These agents can be used to either inhibit or promote transcription of endogenous genes or alternatively can provide exogenous gene products to promote local treatment.

Locally delivered chemotherapeutic agents can also be delivered. These include by way of example only antibiotics to treat microbial conditions antifungal agents antiparasitic agents anti neoplastic agents including alkylating agents anti metabolites and the like.

It can also be appreciated that various hormones and steroids can be delivered as can other systemically acting drugs which can be delivered transmucosally or transdermally. These include IgG clotting factors and enzymes for treating mucopolysaccharidosis or other conditions.

Cardiovascular drugs include vasodilators such as adrenoreceptor agonists including terbutaline and low dose epinephrine adrenoreceptor antagonists including norepinephrine high dose epinephrine and the like and vasodilators including nitroprusside and nitroglycerin.

It can be appreciated that the above descriptions are not intended to be limiting to the scope of the invention. Rather they are intended to be representative of the many different embodiments of the invention.

Certain aspects of this invention include use of PEG CPS cross linked compositions to provide lubrication for joints and soft tissues. In situations in which injury to bone ligaments tendons fascia or other soft tissues has occurred healing may not produce a smooth functioning tissue. For example damage to facet joints in the spine can result in abnormal alignment of vertebrae which can lead to further damage to the disk annulus or nucleus pulposus . Thus a PEG CPS composition of this invention can be injected between lateral spinous processes of adjacent vertebrae which normally can slide past one another during normal movement . After such injection the lateral spinous processes can be separated from each other and the inherent lubrication afforded by the PEG CPS composition can decrease further irritation.

In a similar fashion damage to tendons ligaments and fascias can produce pain swelling and decreased function. This insertion of a PEG CPS composition of this invention can improve mobility and can decrease the likelihood for further damage to the tissue.

PEG CMC compositions can also be used to protect tissues from damage. For example such compositions can protect peripheral nerves tendons ligaments other soft tissues synovial membranes joints and can thereby relieve pain.

For example tendon and ligament injuries heal more slowly than to other tissues in part because the blood flow to tendons and ligaments is reduced compared to tissues such as muscles mesenteries and the like. Furthermore a tendon stress related injury often is accompanied by a stress injury to an adjacent ligament. Therefore healing of both tissues is required for a return to normal function. However such recovery is often slow and re injury is common. Further even when healed tendons and ligaments tend to heal with scar tissue which is not smooth. Thus even after healing a previously injured tendon or ligament may abrade adjacent tissues and cause either re injury or slow recovery processes.

In another example in the spinal cord damaged spinous processes or vertebral bodies may abrade adjacent tissues. Additionally loss of a vertebral nucleus can lead to compression of vertebral bodies and can result in impingement of spinal nerves often leading to pain and or paralysis.

A further example can involve damage to peripheral nerves where soft tissue injury trauma or inflammatory reactions can lead to pain or loss of nerve function. Application of a PEG CMC composition of this invention can decrease inflammatory responses and therefore can decrease secondary damage caused by inflammatory reactions mediated by for example macrophages leukocytes mast cells or other types of inflammatory cells.

Additionally PEG CMC compositions of this invention can be useful to minimize joint pain. In numerous conditions including arthritis traumatic injury degeneration of cartilage and ligament damage a joint can become painful. A PEG CMC composition of this invention can be introduced into an affected joint to provide lubrication and to protect adjacent tissues from damage caused by movement. For example in the knee a PEG CMC composition can be introduced during an arthroscopic procedure. In situations in which the joint must bear a load e.g. knee hip ankle vertebra a PEG CMC composition can be made with particularly high elasticity.

Compositions of this invention are particularly well suited as dermal fillers. As noted above one of the difficulties with prior art dermal fillers is mismatching of the elasticities of the tissue and the dermal filler. In situations where the tissue is relatively elastic and the dermal filler is relatively inelastic lumps can appear where the tissue can stretch but the dermal filler does not. Conversely in situations in which the elasticity of the dermal filler is higher than that of the tissue incomplete filling of voids can occur.

Thus by selecting viscoelastic properties of a dermal filler to approximate or match the elasticity of the tissue a better void filling material can be produced and used while minimizing adverse effects of tissue filler mismatching.

Additionally as an individual ages the elasticity of the skin tends to decrease. Thus in subjects with less elastic skin one might desirably use a dermal filler with lower elasticity than one might use in a younger individual with more elastic skin. Similarly certain tissues tend to have different elasticities or different mobilities. For example the skin around facial muscles e.g. nasolabial folds may be subject to different stresses than other tissues e.g. the lips . Thus one can select dermal fillers having different viscoelastic properties for use in the same subject.

Use of such dermal fillers depends upon the specific need. For example when used to fill small wrinkles such as nasolabial folds or crow s feet around the eyes dermal fillers in the form of a uniform gel or small particles can be desired. An advantage of using a uniform gel is that these materials can be injected using very small needles and can produce a very smooth filling particularly well suited for smoothing small lines. For use in somewhat larger lines e.g. nasolabial folds it can be desirable to use compositions comprising a gel having particles of PEG CMC. Such particles can be made according to methods known in the art and can be made to have desired dimensions. For use in nasolabial folds the particles should be sufficiently small to pass easily through a small needle e.g. a 25 or 30 gauge needle . The remainder of the composition can be a PEG CMC gel having relatively lower viscosity. After injection the particles can further hydrate in the tissue thereby forming a more uniform composition.

It can be appreciated that certain embodiments e.g. one step embodiments can provide easy to produce pre sterilized compositions in a suitable delivery device e.g. syringe . Pre made PEG CMC compositions having desirable elasticity can be injected directly into the site using a small gauge e.g. 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 gauge needle.

The following examples are presented to illustrate certain embodiments of this invention and are not intended to limit the scope to the embodiments so illustrated. Rather workers of skill in the art can modify or adapt the teachings of this invention to make and use other variations without undue experimentation. All of those embodiments are considered to be part of this invention.

To a 400 ml polypentene beaker we added distilled deionized water DIW 250 mL and NaOH 2.5 g 60.25 mM . After 5 minutes of stirring at 400 rpm CMC A 5.0 g 40.83 mM OH was added and stifling continued for 35 minutes at 25 C. Subsequently PEGDGE 6.884 g 6.0 mL 8.7 mM was added neat and stifling was continued at ambient temperature for 90 minutes. After that time we then heated the mixture to about 70 C. for 1 hour and about 90 C. for 2 hours. The mixture was then cooled to ambient temperature overnight.

The solution was diluted to a volume of about 250 mL with DIW and neutralized with 3.5 ml of glacial acetic acid. At this point the pH was 5.3 and 20 NaOH was added to bring the pH to 6.8. The resulting polymer was precipitated with IPA collected and then ground in a blender with isopropyl alcohol methanol IPA MeOH 1 1 in a volume of about 250 mL. The granular solid was collected and washed three times with about 50 mL of acetone then dried in a hood for 20 minutes and the dried in vacuum at a temperature of about 80 C. For rheological testing the dried composition was reconstituted in phosphate buffered saline PBS .

Rheological properties of a 30 mg ml solution in PBS were determined according to methods known in the art. Elasticities of these PEG CMC compositions were increased dramatically as shown in curve A and as described below.

To a 400 ml polypentene beaker we added DIW 250 mL and NaOH 10 g 250 mM with mechanical stifling. After 5 minutes of stifling at 400 rpm we then added CMC A 7.5 g 67.3 mM OH and stirring continued for 35 minutes at 25 C. Subsequently we added PEGDGE 0.23 g neat 0.2 mL 0.87 mM and stifling continued at ambient temperature for 90 minutes then heated to a temperature of about 70 C. for 3 hours then cooled to ambient temperature overnight.

The solution was then diluted to a volume of about 250 mL with DIW and neutralized with glacial acetic acid to a pH of 6. The resulting polymer was precipitated with IPA collected and then ground in a blender with MEOH 250 ml. The granular solid was collected and washed three times with about 50 mL of MeOH then dried in a hood for 20 minutes and the dried in vacuo at a temperature of about 60 C.

Rheological properties of a 30 mg ml solution of this material is shown as curve C in . depicts a graph of G G ratio tan vs. frequency for the reaction products of CMC A with PEGDGE in 1 NaOH solution at CMAG EP ratios of 0.8 2.4 25.6 and CMC with no EP. The line with filled triangles A is the tan vs. frequency for the reaction product with the CMAG EP ratio of 0.8 the line with the filled circles B is the tan vs. frequency for the reaction product with the CMAG EP ratio of 2.4 the line with the un filled squares C is the tan vs. frequency for the reaction product with the CMAG EP ratio of 35.6 and the solid line with no symbol D is the tan for un reacted CMC with no EP. The data clearly indicates that the un reacted CMC has the lowest tan or is the most elastic material. In this case all of the derivatized gels have higher tan than un reacted CMC and as the CMAG EP ratio is decreased from 25.6 to 2.4 to 0.8 the tan is increasing and the material is becoming less elastic. Since the elasticity of the gels decreases upon reaction with PEGDGE this indicates that the CMC is decorated and not crosslinked with PEGDGE in the NaOH catalyzed reaction. By reacting CMC with PEGDGE in base the tan of the CMC PEG gels can be controlled by adjusting the CMAG EP ratio.

In this example to a 400 ml polypentene beaker we added DIW 250 mL and 20 NHOH 5 ml under constant stifling for 5 minutes at 400 rpm. The resulting solution had a pH of 11. To this solution we added CMC A 7.5 g 67.3 mM OH with constant stirring at 700 rpm for 35 minutes at a temperature of 25 C. At this time PEGDGE 2.3 g neat 2 mL 8.7 mM was added and stirring continued at ambient temperature for 2 hours and then another 2 ml 8.7 mM of PEGDGE was added and stifling continued for a further 2 hours. The solution was then neutralized with dilute HCl to pH 6.8 and the polymer was precipitated with IPA and collected. The solid was ground in a blender with MeOH and the granular solid was collected and wash three times with about 50 mL of MeOH then dried in a hood for 20 minutes and the dried in vacuo at a temperature of about 60 C.

To a 400 ml polypentene beaker we added DIW 250 mL and glacial acetic acid HOAc 2.5 ml 49 mM . After 5 minutes of stifling at 400 rpm CMC A 7.5 g 67.3 mM OH was added and stirring continued for 55 minutes at ambient temperature. At this time PEGDGE 2.85 g 2.5 mL neat 5.4 mM was added and stifling continued at ambient temperature about 40 C. for 5 hours and the stirring stopped and the solution set in at room temperature for 70 hours.

The concentrated mass was diluted with 200 mL of DIW and precipitated with IPA 300 ml . The entire mass was ground in a blender with 250 mL of MeOH and the solid was then suction filtered washed with acetone dried in the hood and further dried at a temperature of 60 C. in a vacuum oven.

In this series of studies to a 600 ml polypentene beaker we added DIW 250 mL and citric acid 2.5 g with constant stirring. After 5 minutes of stirring at 400 rpm CMC A 7.5 g 31 mM was added and stifling continued for 55 minutes at ambient temperature. At this time PEGDGE 2.85 g neat 0.5 mL 1.1 mM was added and stirring was continued at a temperature of 60 C. for 5 hours. After this time the stifling was stopped and the solution set at room temperature for 70 hours. The concentrated mass was diluted with 200 mL of DIW neutralized to pH 6.8 with dilute NaOH and polymer was precipitated with IPA 300 ml . The entire mass was ground in a blender with 250 mL of MeOH and the solid was then suction filtered washed with acetone dried in the hood and further dried at a temperature of 60 C. in a vacuum oven.

The rheology data of a 30 mg ml solution in PBS indicates that the elasticity of the cross linked material has increased curve C .

In this series of studies to a 600 ml polypentene beaker we added DIW 250 mL and stirred in glacial acetic acetic acid 2.5 ml . After 5 minutes of stirring at 400 rpm the pH was 4. Subsequently CMC B 12.5 g 51.7 mM was added and stirring continued at 700 rpm for 35 minutes at a temperature of 25 C. At this time PEGDGE 2.93 g neat 2.5 mL 5.56 mM was added and stifling continued at ambient temperature for 2 hours and then the temperature was increased to about 60 C. for 3 hours. The solution was then cooled to room temperature and set overnight. The concentrated mass was diluted with 200 mL of DIW neutralized to pH 6.8 with dilute NaOH and precipitated with IPA 300 ml . The entire mass was ground in a blender with 250 mL of MeOH and the solid suction filtered washed with acetone dried in the hood and further dried at a temperature of 60 C. in a vacuum oven.

The elasticity of a 3 solution of this material in PBS is shown in . depicts graphs of tan vs. frequency for un reacted CMC B solid squares graph A and for CMC B reacted with PEGDGE in 1 acetic acid at a CMAG EP ratio of 5.1 1 solid circles graph B . The CMC PEGDGE gel graph B is highly elastic i.e. has a lower tan indicating that CMC has been cross linked with PEGDGE.

Compositions of CMC with greater cross linking can be created using PEGs that are multi branched. Such PEGs are available from SunBio Orinda Calif. and are depicted in . depicts a chemical structure of a PEG in which each of the in chain carbon atoms has an epoxide residue attached thereto. Such a PEG has an epoxide ethylene oxide ratio of 2 1. However one can use PEGS that are not fully substituted with epoxide moieties. Rather one can use PEGs with different ratios of epoxide ethylene oxide. Thus altering the number of epoxide moieties on multi branch PEGs can be be used to provide increased choices along with the use of CMC or other CPSs having different degrees of substitution.

To make a cross linked CMC multi branch PEG composition according to this example methods as disclosed in Example 1 can be used. A CMC is selected a multi branch PEG is selected a solution of the CMC is made in aqueous solution and the multi branch PEG is introduced and the reaction is permitted to proceed.

We find that increasing the number of epoxide residues on a multi branch PEG increases the amount of cross linking increases the residence time and increases the elasticity of the composition.

To provide additional compositions CMC and multi arm PEGs can be used to create cross linked compositions. A multi arm PEG is a molecule containing more than one PEG molecule each of which contains at least one epoxide moiety. Generally multi arm PEGS have a core molecule. In the case of a 4 arm PEG the core can be penta erythritol. For 6 arm PEGs hexose backbones can be used. In both cases the core molecule provides reactive groups that can be covalently bonded to PEG molecules. In the case of a penta erythritol core the resulting 4 arm PEG has a structure shown .

To make a CMC PEG cross linked composition using a multi arm PEG one uses methods described in Examples 1 or 7. A CMC is selected and prepared in aqueous solution. Then a multi arm PEG is selected and introduced into the CMC solution. The reaction is permitted to proceed and the cross linked CMC PEG composition is then isolated.

CMC PEG compositions described in Examples 7 and or 8 can be used in situations in which a stronger cross linking is desired. CMC multi arm PEG or CMC multi branch PEG compositions are used to increase permanence of the composition for filling excavating voids in internal tissues and the skin. Such compositions can polymerize at higher rates than PEGDGE because of the increased number of reactive epoxide moieties present.

By selecting PEGs having increased number of epoxide moieties and or lower molecular weights e.g. lower numbers of ethylene oxide moieties the polymerization rates tissue residence times and elasticities of CMC PEG compositions can be increased. Similarly selecting a CMC having a higher degree of substitution can produce CMC PEG compositions having higher polymerization rates tissue residence times and elasticities.

In situations in which it is desirable to provide a vertebral disk nucleus replacement a CMC multi branch PEG or CMC multi arm PEG composition can undergo an in situ polymerization reaction. Thus a composition having a relatively low viscosity can be implanted into a vertebral space. Subsequently a polymerization reaction can occur thereby providing a cross linked highly elastic composition that can be weight bearing and therefore can reduce symptoms usually associated with extrusion or degeneration of a disk nucleus.

In this example we wished to determine if a PEG CMC composition could be made without precipitation and reconstitution before use. We therefore carried out a series of studies using CMC PEGDGE mixtures loaded into syringes without carrying out these steps. We compared the elasticity of such a material with a CMC PEO composition containing calcium ions. Such calcium CMC PEO compositions are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 869 938 incorporated herein fully by reference.

We dissolved calcium chloride 0.04 g and sodium chloride 0.313 g in 50 mL of a solution containing 0.01 citric acid in a 100 mL beaker with mechanical stirring. We then slowly added solid CMC C 1.804 g 7.45 mM over about 2 minutes. After 5 minutes of stirring we then added PEGDGE 0.75 mL 0.855 g neat 3.25 mM and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. The homogeneous mixture was then loaded into 3 mL polypropylene syringes and placed into sterilization pouches and steam sterilized in an autoclave for 32 minutes at 122 C. and cooled overnight to room temperature.

The rheology of this CMC PEGDGE gel was compared to the rheology of a CMC gel without PEGDGE prepared as above is shown in . depicts graphs of G G tan vs. frequency for two different gels. Graph A solid squares depicts results for a gel produced from CMC C reacted with PEGDGE in 0.01 citric acid with CaCland NaCl and steam sterilization with a CMAG EP ratio of 2.3. Graph B solid line depicts results for a gel produced from CMC C and non functional PEO dissolved in DIW with CaCland NaCl that was steam sterilized. We conclude that the covalently cross linked CMC PEGDGE gel has greater elasticity than the CMC PEO ionically cross linked material especially at low frequencies.

A patient presents with damage or degeneration of a nucleus of an intervertebral disk. The patient is anesthetized and a portion of the spinal column is revealed. To produce a load bearing structure in the intervertebral space a biologically compatible spherical or cylindrical sac is inserted in a deflated condition through a small hole in the annulus and into the intervertebral space of a patient in need thereof. Once in place a PEG CMC composition of this invention of this invention is introduced into the sac. Then the PEG CMC composition is permitted to polymerize into an elastic load bearing structure.

A patient presents with damage or degeneration of a nucleus of an intervertebral disk. The patient is anesthetized with local or general anesthetics and a portion of the spinal column is revealed. The location of the damage is located and the annulus is evaluated for integrity. If there is no satisfactory hole in the annulus a small incision in the annulus is made. Multiple PEG CPS filled sacs are introduced in either inflated or deflated conditions depending on the size of a hole in an annulus of a patient in need thereof. Where the annulus is intact a small hole is made in the annulus and a plurality of cylindrical or spherical sacs is introduced into the intervertebral space. The longitudinal axis es of a cylindrical sac is aligned parallel to the direction of the load and the sacs are then filled with a PEG CPS composition of this invention and the compositions permitted to polymerize.

A patient presents with damage or degeneration of a nucleus of an intervertebral disk. The patient is anesthetized with local or general anesthetics and a portion of the spinal column is revealed. The location of the damage is located and the annulus is evaluated for integrity. If there is no satisfactory hole in the annulus a small incision is made and one or more cylindrical sacs are introduced into the intervertebral space within the annulus. Once so introduced each sac is then filled with a PEG CPS composition of this invention. Then a larger deflated sac is introduced into the intervertebral space and is situated near the hole in the annulus. Once positioned a PEG CPS composition of this invention is introduced into the sac and is permitted to polymerize. This plug sac then remains within the annulus and plugs the hole in the annulus to minimize the extrusion of the smaller sacs through the hole.

It can be appreciated that in the above examples either a spherical cylindrical or other closed shape can be used.

The examples above are provided for purposes of illustrating specific embodiments of this invention. Persons of ordinary skill can readily produce other embodiments based on the teachings of this application without undue experimentation. All such embodiments are included within the scope of this invention. All references cited herein are incorporated fully by reference as is separately so incorporated.

