---

title: System and method for color paint selection and acquisition
abstract: A method for paint color recommendation. The method obtains measures of an environment to be painted and trains a learned model to input data received from customers including data representing each customer's initial color paint and pigment selection, and one or more of: a customer perceptual, a customer context, and environment measure (P/C/E data) to generate a sparse matrix. One or more paint vendors may then use the generated sparse matrix to determine a color pigment recommendation from a pigments color space for a customer. From a user selected color/pigment, and using the learned model, the method maps the selection, together with the user's P/C/E data back to the color/pigments space. User feedback representing a degree of satisfaction that the recommended color pigment applied to the user environment has matched the user's initial color paint and color pigment selection is elicited.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600908&OS=09600908&RS=09600908
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09600908
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150706
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 618 503 filed Feb. 10 2015 the entire content and disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to a method of selecting paint colors e.g. at a paint vendor or paint department of a store and an automated solution for paint selection and recommendation based on the environment to be painted and contextual factors pertaining to the consumer.

It is the case that a human s perception of colors is a subjective process whereby the brain responds to the stimuli that are produced when incoming light reacts with the several types of cone photoreceptors in the eye. In essence different people may see the same illuminated object or light source in different ways 

For example in the case of painting a room or environment using a color selected when at a paint department at the Home Depot department store this human color perception phenomena often leads to a phenomenon after painting the room or environment wherein the customer says this looks nothing like the color sample viewed at Home Depot .

Thus in the case of selecting a color e.g. of a paint used for painting a room or environment this human color perception percept phenomena engenders a problem how to assist a user in making decisions about colors based on the context of the room or environment and the perceptual apparatus in which the color will emerge as a subjective experience or quale of consciousness.

There is no current system or method to assist a user who is desirous of procuring a paint color for painting a room or environment in making a paint color selection that matches the expected subjective percept of that color.

From the viewpoint of a paint vendor or service entity paint store or paint department that recommends and or procures paint of a desired color and pigment it would be desirable to provide an effective and consistent method that enables a user or paint vendor to make informed decisions regarding paint color selections for consumers.

A system method and computer program product to sufficiently obtain measures of an environment to be painted and map measures of the environment to be painted the user s perception of different colors and the cognitive context of the user into a space of desired colors and then into a space of pigments specifically chosen to produce this color in a targeted cognitive and environmental context.

Because the number of measures will far exceed the number of observed percepts or preferences of any given user a system and method is proposed which performs a sparse regression from measures into a standard color space such as a color wheel targeting these colors with pigments and base paints that the system learns are capable of generating the desired color in the environment.

In one aspect a paint color recommendation system for multiple paint vendors is provided. The system comprises a memory storage device storing a program of instructions a processor device receiving the program of instructions to configure the processor device to receive input data representing an initial paint color or pigment selection from a user receive further input data representing one or more of a user s perceptual cognitive environmental P C E context map using a learned model the user s initial color paint and color pigment selection and user context data to a pigments color space determine based on the map a color pigment or pigment mixture for recommendation to the user and communicating data representing the color pigment or mixture recommendation to a user designated device.

In a further aspect there is provided a paint color recommendation method for a color paint vendor. The method comprises receiving at a processor device input data representing an initial paint color or pigment selection from a user receiving at the processor device further input data representing one or more of a user s perceptual cognitive environmental P C E context a user s environmental context associated with an environment in which the selected paint color is to be applied to a surface thereof mapping using a learned model said user s initial color paint and color pigment selection and user context data to a pigments color space determining based on said map a color pigment or pigment mixture for recommendation to the user and communicating data representing said color pigment or mixture recommendation to a user designated device.

In a further aspect there is provided a computer program product for performing operations. The computer program product includes a storage medium readable by a processing circuit and storing instructions run by the processing circuit for running a method. The method is the same as listed above.

As shown in there is provided a trans vendor service method and tool for providing paint color selections and recommendations for a user e.g. a paint customer . The trans vendor service is not specific to any one particular commercial paint vending entity but is able to service multiple paint vending commercial entities with a common interface design patterns and cloud service. The service builds machine learning input sets for use and benefit by all commercial participating paint vending store entities to provide more accurate correct color choices or recommendation to customers with decreased likelihood of color selection dissatisfaction.

In particular shows a conceptual trans vendor service for color paint selection recommendation and a tool that may be implemented by many commercial entities e.g. participating paint vending stores . . . that provide paint to customers consumers contractors or like users. In one embodiment each participating paint vending store . . . may provide a common controlled environment or area in which a user e.g. paint consumer will be enabled to make a paint color selection.

In one embodiment a consumer may visit a paint service vendor and may select to volunteer and participate in an offered paint color recommendation service at which time a representative of the participating vendor client may place the user in a consistent viewing environment e.g. a controlled environment such as a kiosk having a consistent viewing environment with a particular lighting background color s etc. In these conditions and the user will be provided with a paint chip e.g. a card that paints stores often provide customers for choosing a paint color a color wheel object or display in which colors pigments are shown for selection and under the carefully controlled condition provide a paint color pigment selection.

In one embodiment each participating paint vendor entity premises . . . may provide a respective computer system . . . with an interface via which the user will enter further information for the service. As color is not an objective measure or phenomena and is a subjective percept the additional information includes user profile data and contextual measures data pertaining to the user s context of viewing the room and environment to be painted. The context data and environment measures data provided by the user is stored by the service and used to build using machine learning a model for paint color pigment selection and or recommendation. Each user s paint selection and contextual data may be entered via a web browser or browser based application and is communicated from the vendor premises via a respective Internet or web connection to a centralized trans vendor service embodied as a computing system that includes one or more web database servers comprising application and database software components for building the model for color pigment selection and or recommendation and associated web service. Received user profile data is stored in a memory storage device e.g. a database for association with that user s particular color pigment selection. Received for additional association with that user s particular color selection is the user s associated contextual data that the user enters or communicates via the particular paint vendor service premises . . . or subsequently remotely via a user device. These contextual data includes contextual measures e.g. for storage in a measures database and environment measures e.g. for storage in a measures database . While several memory storage devices are shown it is understood that the user profile context information may be consolidated for storage in a single storage device for access by a database program.

Alternatively subsequent to a user s paint color pigment selection at a vendor the data representing the user context and user environment measures data associated with the particular selection may be obtained and subsequently communicated via the web or Internet from a location external to the vendor premises to the centralized computing system providing the trans vendor service tool . For example users of the web based paint recommendation service are enabled to access the service tool remotely via wired or wireless connections from a user device . . . e.g. a smartphone laptop mobile or desktop computer to the computing system via a respective to the Web Internet or a like public private network connection. It is understood that wired communications between the web site computing system and the registered users are via the public Internet in accordance with standard TCP IP protocols and optionally over a secure communications link e.g. secure sockets layer or similar protocol. It is understood that parties . . . may access the Web Internet via a personal computer computing device personal digital assistant or like device implementing web browser functionality e.g. Google Chrome Safari Internet Explorer or other browsing technology that may be compatible.

In one embodiment at the vendor premises the user may queried to enter e.g. via the computer interface that user s profile information e.g. the user context such as the user s gender male female age marital status etc. and may be presented with a questionnaire which obtains the user context e.g. desired room color the type use of the room to be painted the environment of the room e.g. amount duration of sunlight the furniture type and color that is present in the room to be painted and any other data point that might bear on the user s subjective color percept for further training the system.

Further the user may be presented with a paint chip s having palettes of colors from which the user may select. For example shows an example paint chip in the form of a color wheel that is electronically generated and presented for display on a computer display device at the paint vendor premises or store for a user to select a color pigment. The color wheel includes paint selection colors or base paint colors . As known each color selection has a unique mapping to a set of pigments and a base paint color of a standard color space that is used in the vendor compute system to mix the paint to procure the selected paint color. As the pigments and paint combination may look different once applied at the user s environment in one embodiment the trans vendor tool takes this particular user s context and enters the information in a model that provides a paint color pigment selection or recommendation that better reflects that user s subjective color percept.

It should be understood that any type of color presentation e.g. often used color wheels or paint chips may be displayed and these color wheels paint chips may be provided free or for a fee to members of a social network a professional designer for derivation of an aggregate assessment from a social network from a professional designer etc. Similarly a color wheel may indicate most often used color classes or most preferred color classes as provided by an aggregator module AM with access to a user s social network. Aggregation involves the aggregation of color selection information given several types of user context as will explained in greater detail herein represented in a preferred embodiment as a centroid of points selected by different individuals on a color wheel. This centroid is calculated according to standard formulae and provides a means to find the average color selection by members of a social network given the several types of user context. In one embodiment user context includes user color Percept data user cognitive Context data and Environment measures data of the room or environment to be painted referred to herein as P C E data . A second step of aggregation occurs when color selection is mapped to paint pigments. This mapping depends on machine learning over the color selection and P C E context itself and may differ depending on the user. The estimate P C E for a given user may therefore take into account an aggregate P C E. For example given uncertainty about P C E for a new user of the system the average of P C E employed by other users of the system from the user s social network from the user s trusted expert advisors etc. may be used.

For example as shown in the system diagram of an AM may be a process associated with the system tool that has access to color preferences of people in a user s social network such as friends and family. The identification of members in a social network may be performed by an analysis with users permissions of posts to social media emails LinkedIn connections etc. For example three of a user s friends may indicate that teal or a variant of teal is their favorite color. Optionally they may specific other characteristics associated with colors including names of paint vendors paint glossiness etc. The AM may tally such preferences. For example the AM may identify that 60 of members in a user s social network like various shades of blue or that they prefer a range of hues in a particular region of color space. Users may indicate such preferences in a direct fashion or such preferences may be estimated with a certain confidence level by an analysis of user photos of their homes or other images. In one embodiment this feature may be performed in an opt in fashion so as not so sacrifice user privacy.

In a first aspect based on the received data and initial user color choices the system and method implemented at tool generates a mapping model sufficient to map measures of the environment to be painted the user s perception of different colors and the cognitive context of the user into the space of desired colors and then into the space of pigments specifically chosen to produce this color in a targeted cognitive and environmental context. This model is made available and accessible by many paint vendors . . . for their use in increasing satisfaction levels for their customer s color paint purchases.

As the tool receives from a vendor and or its customer the customer s initial base color pigment selections including associated user Percept data user cognitive Context data and Environment measures data of the room or environment to be painted referred to herein as P C E data this data is stored in one or more memory storage devices making up database and this data is accessed via a local network e.g. private or public network via a network input output interface for use by the hardware processor device in building applying the model.

In this aspect associated memory storage device receives and stores program code including functions and procedures that are accessed by the hardware processor device for configuring the hardware processor device to apply a learned sparse regression model and communicate a pigment recommendation output for a vendor or that vendor s customer via an interface display device at the vendor.

As shown the hardware processor accesses data in the memory storage device and databases . In one embodiment a continuous model build procedure is run as shown in . For the model build the hardware processor is configured to receive the following initial inputs a user s color pigment selection and profile information associated with that user. The method depicted in illustrates the processing at the tool or the paint vendor for building the trans vendor paint selection recommendation service model.

The method depicted in at step first includes receiving the user at the paint vendor location store or premises and presenting the user e.g. User i with a presentation and interface means to view and select a desired color. As an example embodiment as shown in the User i is optionally located in a controlled light environment e.g. in a controlled light environment such as in a separate room or kiosk a paint vendor program running on a computing device generates and presents via interface display device an artificial context of a color wheel or like color presentation that a user may interact with and or select from. Particularly via the interface the user may first select a color or color pigment from the wheel presented that the user likes. depicts a zoomed in portion of the color wheel in where user selected colors are indicated as example circles on the color wheel. As known any color that may be selected by the user via the color wheel is mapped to a known base color and or corresponding unique combination of one or more color pigments.

Returning to at step the user selected color e.g. cornsilk and or its known corresponding base color and pigment mixture information is communicated over a communications network from the vendor premises to the tool for processing and storage associated with the user. In an alternate embodiment the user may be presented with portable paint chips showing paint color and pigment variations thereof. However the user selected color data and pigment mixture is likewise communicated over a communications network from the vendor premises to the tool for processing and storage associated with the user.

Concurrently or subsequently the user may be asked to provide that user s P C E data with their initial color selection. Thus at step the user may input and the system tool further receives User i s P C E data information i.e. user percept cognitive context and environmental measure s data into the computer system to the extent it is available.

Thus as shown in besides the initial user color selections additional inputs to train the model include a user s profile information or context data associated with that user measures data associated with that user s environment and user cognitive context data . Example user profile information may include but is not limited to that user s age gender socioeconomic status etc. The vendor may even administer a color test so as to test that user s psychophysics such as color matching tests e.g. Rayleigh match test color vision acuity tests e.g. Farnsworth Munsell 100 hue test that belongs to the group of hue discrimination tests also called arrangement tests. or color blindness tests e.g. Ishihara Test of a color which is a perception test for red green color deficiencies . Thus context data entered into the system may represent results of a short psychophysical assessment of the user s color perception such as components of that user s corresponding color perception which may be administered to the user e.g. while at the vendor premises. The administration of such color tests may also be performed in the office of a healthcare professional at a user s home etc. and the results stored in a secure database for later use.

User profile or context information may alternately or additionally include a color photograph color picture or a recorded or real time video image feed of the user s room or environment that is to be painted.

Additional inputs to train the model include measures data including environmental measures data including for example the average ambient or average light levels e.g. obtained over a course of a day of the room or environment that is to be painted and measures data of the user s cognitive context i.e. color discrimination and user s color perception e.g. as administered such as via a device by the vendor or as data supplied by the user . Based on these inputs image feed environment measures and user cognitive context measures the processor device of the tool performs specific method steps to train a color assignment prediction model.

In a further embodiment besides measures data of the user s color discrimination and perception the measures received by the system include measures of the user s cognitive context that may be provided by social network information including but not limited to that user s purchase history of art and design goods which is reflective of that user s interest in art that user s purchase history of music which is reflective of that user s interest in music and or that user s purchase history of reading material which is reflective of that user s interest in books. This social network information from a user may be obtained by accessing a social network infrastructure such as shown in and conducting searches for user s context in social networking sites such as Facebook Myspace Instagram Twitter Google etc.

For example as mentioned a user s social network may include friends and family or even business colleagues. The identification of members in a social network may be performed by an analysis with users permissions of posts to social media emails LinkedIn connections etc. Tools such as the Sentinel Visualizer also make it possible to perform sophisticated analyses of the nature of social network connections including such measures such as measures of degree centrality hub and authority. 

It is understood that the extracting social network profile information and relatedness to different individuals in the social network according to network metrics and techniques known in the art e.g. network centrality degrees in degrees out may be applied to derive additional information about user P C E. Specifically information pertaining to color perception preference and contextual influences may be extracted for example based on user s social network purchasing history likes and dislikes background choices and results from psychometric tests of color perception shared using standard social networking interfaces.

Returning to in one embodiment a paint vendor at a retail location may provide their users or customers with an app a software application for user s smart phones that may be operated on a user device e.g. a mobile computer smartphone or PDA . Such a mobile phone may include a camera that the app configures as a sensor that functions to measure and record the average ambient lighting in a room or environment to be painted. The environmental measurement data of such average ambient lighting in the room over a period of time e.g. during a day may be obtained and subsequently provided to the paint vendor or provided directly as input to the system modeling tool e.g. via a web based communication. In addition a photograph of the room may provide contextual clues to the app about the expected subjective perception of the paint color on the walls of the room.

In one embodiment as shown in during the model build image and user profile data and user context and measures data may be received in real time over communications path such as via a communication over a network such as the Internet by the machine learning engine and or may be obtained from the data storage repositories or context databases . The processor may in one embodiment directly receive and buffer the input user profile context and measures data from the memory or from local or remote external databases .

In one embodiment environment or user measures inputs are obtained by the processor from a local or remote repository through a network via mechanisms such as APIs application programming interfaces web services etc.

Then continuing in at the tool is programmed to determine whether there is enough user context data provided to contribute and sufficiently train the model. If there is enough user context data received at step to train and contribute to the model then the process proceeds to step in order to implement functions and routines in the engine to map the received user data to a standard color space and train the model.

If at it is determined that there is not enough user context data to train the model then the User i may be asked to provide additional context information for their selection. For example the method may continue at step where the tool or vendor may request that the User i take home actual sample paints and associated pigments according to a paint chip corresponding to the initial user pigment selection e.g. cornsilk and apply them on the wall or environment to be painted. For example based on an initial user selection of cornsilk the user may be asked to take home and apply other pigment variations cornsilk double prime or cornsilk triple prime to the wall room or environment.

Then as represented at system tool further solicits and receives User i s feedback data as to the user s preference after applying the take home sample paints.

Then as represented at system tool may further solicit and receive User i s feedback data such as for example the presence of any unusual color furnishings or features to be located in the User i s painted environment e.g. after applying the take home sample paints.

Then the system returns to step to ensure that the collected P C E data for User i including the feedback data collected at steps is sufficient for use in parameterizing and training the model which is performed next at step by implementing functions and routines in the engine to map the received feedback data to the standard color space and train the model.

Thus at step in one embodiment the functions and procedures in the program code implement a sparse regression modeling technique to map user i s P C E data and user input data e.g. user profile data and the user s preferred initial pigment mixture to a standard color space i.e. a standard measure of wavelengths that are reflected by a certain pigment mixture . This data representing the mapped pigment mixture may be used for physically mixing a paint pigment color. Returning to in one embodiment the tool additionally shows in the memory a machine learning engine comprising known program code functions sub routines and procedures for implementing supervised or semi supervised machine learning. These routines use a sparse regression technique to map these measures together with pigment mixtures to a standard color space e.g. a color wheel. Using the sparse regression learning techniques a sparse feature matrix is learned by the trans vendor service for multiple users. Subsequently the sparse feature matrix learned by the trans vendor service for multiple users may be applied for a given user to the problem of assisting him or her to choose a color. For certain users sparse features may include a strongly weighted psychophysical component based on color vision acuity and the average chromaticity of textiles in the room for other users the sparse features may include strongly weighted social network background color choices for their online sites and the range of lighting conditions measured in the room.

Continuing to step assuming that the tool s model is partially or fully trained then the process may recommend at a color pigment combination for the User i that reflect that user s initial color selection and P C E data. Thus at step the tool may use the standard color space mapping to physically mix a unique set of pigments to recommend to the vendor and or to physically deliver to the user for application to the wall and or environments for that user. Thus the user may physically receive the actual color paint pigment mixture based on the mapped unique set of pigments determined by the model.

Continuing at step the processor then determines whether any more input context is received for a User i i.e. the same user or a new user . If additional input is received then the system performs updating of the model. That is at step using the received User i information and by implementing supervised or semi supervised machine learning including the applied sparse regression techniques the method performs an updating or a generating of the color prediction model implemented as tool in .

Thus for example at step further context data for a User i may be subsequently received and the process will perform model updating at . As an example at once a User i has purchased a color paint pigment as recommended by the tool a questionnaire may be generated and subsequently presented to the User i such as via a user s display on a computing device to elicit further feedback from User i in the form of that User i s satisfaction level. That is after the customer has painted the walls of the room or environment feedback is elicited from the customer to indicate whether that chosen paint color on their walls has matched their initial color chosen at the store. This satisfaction level is communicated to the vendor and ultimately the tool receives this data records this data for the User i and is further input into the model and used to update the model e.g. apply a positive or negative label such as at step . Questionnaires may include but are not limited to overall rating scales for the degree of match e.g. 10 Perfect Match to 1 Completely Incorrect Match . Questionnaires may also include questions aimed at measuring defects in the space of hue and saturation e.g. using questions such as Is the color correct but it appears too vivid or too muddy Is the shading of the color correct but it appears too green too red or too blue .

It should be understood that user feedback may be elicited by online surveys and by other means. For example a survey may ask a user to indicate his or her satisfaction level on a scale from 1 to 10. More nuanced information may be obtained by using more intricate questionnaires that may include GUI elements such as sliders. Other parameters in such questionnaires could include ratings of glossiness durability ability of one paint to cover another paint color of paint when viewed in bright sunshine etc.

In one embodiment updating of the model at step includes the generating of a sparse feature matrix which is a data structure reflecting the users context data and pigment selections weighted according to sparse learning over positive or negative labels e.g. reflecting a user s satisfaction data. All measures that are taken by the system because they may be useful in predicting the mapping of color selection into pigments are included in a measurement matrix. This sparse feature matrix may be subsequently used by that vendor or any other paint vendor i.e. as a trans vendor service who use want to use the model provided by the color recommending service. Learning involves setting coefficients in the feature matrix such that they satisfy a sparsity constraint i.e. as many coefficients as possible are set to zero and such that those measures with large coefficients represent those measures that are important for predicting a match.

As a paint color and color pigment combination may look different once applied at the user s wall or environment the machine learning semi supervised or supervised is used to account for this user context and perhaps recommend a modified color pigment for the selected color as will be explained in further detail herein below.

That is in one embodiment based on the P C E and base color pigment selection data and a user satisfaction level collected the machine learning component of tool generates a meaningful feature matrix that may be subsequently used for prediction based on all the customer datum e.g. user profile user cognitive context and environmental measures received over time. This meaningful matrix will accurately represent the user s expected color percept e.g. at the home or environment by predicting user labels most likely after the paint is applied and for example a questionnaire about customer satisfaction is administered. This model is configured to now predict and recommend a most accurate color pigment combination providing the customer with an increased user satisfaction level based on the initial user selected color from the color wheel or paint chip selected at the vendor location and the ultimate context in which that paint will be spread on a wall.

Returning to step if it is determined that no other inputs have been received from User i then the process proceeds back to step to wait for a new color pigment selection input and new associated P C E input data associated with a new user e.g. User and the steps through repeated for model build updating at step with the new user information.

Thus using method the hardware processor receives the P C E inputs from a user to get the correct pigment combination to accord with the user s color percept in that user s home or environment. Then to properly train the model besides the user s initial base color paint and pigment selections the additional information is needed to ensure that the user s color percept of their initial selection at the vendor store or premises matches that user s percept of that color when that paint is spread on a wall in their room or environment. Such additional training information includes all other things that contributed to that context in which the user has become satisfied that the chosen paint color on their walls has matched their initial color chosen at step from the color wheel or paint chip at the vendor location. For example while a user may have selected cornsilk as a color at the paint vendor store the user may be provided with a color chip that includes additional degrees of shade e.g. cornsilk prime cornsilk double prime or cornsilk triple prime or may even be provided with take home paint samples of each of these colors samples to apply to the room etc. When the paint is ultimately applied to the room or environment the user may be satisfied with the cornsilk triple prime selection even though that user initially selected cornsilk based on the user percept when at the vendor store or location. The additional user context that contributed to that user s selection of cornsilk triple prime rather than the initial selection of cornsilk is captured by the tool and used for training the model.

The system and method of continuously performs sparse regression and in one embodiment using supervised learning techniques performs feature learning over the historical and current data from multiple users e.g. based on each their P C E context profile and initial pigment mixture selection their user s purchases of paint pigments and base paints and their user s feedback to the vendor in the form of questionnaire answers follow up repainting and or returns of paints to the store.

The system thus fits a linear model to data where the number of observations e.g. observations of paint pigment base purchases followed by either approval or disapproval ratings on the resulting color to variables e.g. measures of a user s perceptual cognitive environmental or a user s perceptual cognitive environmental P C E context and the indicated target color in the artificial context of the color wheel e.g. collected at the time of purchase .

Training the model in this way ensures color selection predictability for future users that choose a similar color and that have similar contexts. For example for a subsequent user that initially chooses the cornsilk color at a paint store and who has indicated similar contextual information e.g. same or similar color percept as prior users who had had their similar cornsilk selections mapped to a pigment mixture referred to in this model as cornsilk triple prime the vendor using the tool and applying the model to the subsequent user s color selection and context may ultimately predict and or recommend to that subsequent user e.g. at the paint vendor display device or via a user interface at a user device . . . a cornsilk triple prime pigment mixture based on that user s context when similar to the earlier user s who had input similar context s . Thus it is understood that the model predicts perceived color from color selection given users P C E data. It additionally predicts pigment mixture to match perceived color to color selection.

In one embodiment the system and methods implemented by computation processor builds a model that finds causes for a perceived color from data measures other than pigment identity. For example based on this input measures and cognitive context datum the hardware processor device using learning engine builds a model to solve a problem by providing a mapping of 1. components of the painted environment 2. components of the user s perceptual apparatus and 3. components of the user s cognitive context to one or more of 1. the color wheel location or mixture of wavelengths corresponding to a desired color in the environment 2. the mixture of pigments corresponding to a desired wavelength of light sufficient to produce the desired color and 3. the base paint into which pigments are mixed necessary to provide additional context for the subjective experience to emerge. Because the number of measures will far exceed the number of observed percepts or preferences of any given user the performed method performs a sparse regression from measures into a standard color space such as a color wheel targeting these colors with pigments and base paints that the system learns are capable of generating the desired color in the environment.

In effect the systems and methods intervene between the selection of the paint chip and the corresponding unique mixture of base paint and known combination of pigments to adjust the pigments and base paint according to the ultimate user context in which the paint will be spread on a wall in the room or environment.

In a further aspect a method of implementing the trans vendor paint color recommendation service implementing the built model is provided. That is as shown in in one embodiment a system implementing trans vendor service tool may provide an interface that is physically implemented at each paint vendor store or service location . . . such as shown in in which the tool may receive a request in person from the customer user desirous of painting a room or environment and implement the model for predicting and or recommending a color pigment. Otherwise the system may receive a paint color request over a computer network from a user whose room or environment is to be painted.

Then at the method includes applying the built learned sparse regression model including sparse feature matrix to map the customer j s initial color selection and any customer j s P C E data to the standard pigments color space. That is from the user selected color pigment from the display and using the previously learned sparse regression model the tool maps the selection together with the user s P C E data back to the color pigments space where it is presumed the pigments will produce the desired color.

Then at step the applied model incorporating the built sparse feature matrix in tool uses the standard color space mapping to recommend to and or mix a unique set of pigments for delivery to the Customer j for that customer s purpose. That is in one embodiment as shown in the hardware processor applies the model and initiates generation of output signals representing a recommended color and pigment type e.g. for presentation via a user display device such as a hand held touch screen or display device e.g. of . The recommended pigment may be the same as initially chosen by the customer or may be modified based on the received customer s contextual data.

Such signals may be provided to the user via a display terminal of while at the vendor location or may be sent to any other user device e.g. via a network connection an e mail phone text message or any other communication modality. Such signals may also be recorded and used to generate color data for use in physically mixing the color paint based on the mapped base color and color pigment for the user as determined by the model outputs. For example in one embodiment the signals representing the mapped color pigment may be received by the vendor directly and automatically may be used directly to physically mix a sample of paint at that pigment for the user to purchase or sample.

In a further embodiment based on the received initial color pigments and customer s P C E contextual data it may be determined that the model may not have learned enough i.e. is not fully trained and determines that not enough information is available to adequately map the user data into the color space. In such a scenario for example the system may recommend that two or more physical samples be produced based on the initially pigment choices for the user to bring home and apply to the wall or environment to obtain a user feedback e.g. a user preference which feedback data can be used to update the model.

Thus returning to step the vendor tool may receive feedback from Customer j for example an indication of a satisfaction level or not or a preference of a particular pigment out of the several physical samples that were recommended and or supplied to the customer. Regardless of whether feedback data from the Customer j is received or not the information obtained by the tool in the processing of this Customer j is used to update the model for subsequent use by the vendor at . The method will wait for a further user and the method returns to step .

Thus based on the received P C E data e.g. an image and measure s data also received from the user the trans vendor service is enabled to provide to the user e.g. via a display or to a user device over the computer network a recommended color and pigment types.

Given the base color and known pigment mixture combination to achieve a selected color in the tool other inputs are used to modify the pigment combination that will achieve a user s or multiple user s percept in the home or environment context.

The trans vendor tool thus obtains measures such as a user s context of viewing based on a set of parameters assigned to the vendor and provided to a customer to elicit their responses for consistent use across all vendors based on inputs from all users so the tool could be used for all vendors.

The vendor s use of the built model ensures that paint returns and customer dissatisfaction with the outcome will be minimized. That is the service ensures that the user s P C E context will create the qualitative experience of the chosen and desired color since a sparse regression is designed to fit all of the user s P C E inputs and all available pigments to the space of desired colors. The system therefore maximizes user satisfaction with the resulting painted environment a value proposition that paint vendors would greatly benefit from.

In one embodiment in tool a sparse regression technique known in the art as LASSO may be used to build the trans vendor paint recommendation model. Thus procedures and functions for model build update may include that program code for performing a LASSO regression technique. In one embodiment a sparse regression technique is implemented wherein the system is constrained to create a model to predict the label by making weights on the measure sparse. One LASSO regression technique that can be used is described in A tutorial on the Lasso approach to sparse modeling by Morten Arendt Rasmussen and Rasmus Bro Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems 119 2012 21 31 incorporated by reference herein.

For the LASSO mapping procedure performed by computing system tool a linear regression problem may be represented according to the following equation where X e.g. is a n p matrix and y e.g. an n 1 vector are known and b e.g. a p 1 vector is unknown and e is an error measure. Lasso sparse regression aims to find an estimate of the regression vector b with good predictive performance which is sparse i.e. a number of elements of b are exactly zero . It is understood that other methods exist and can be implemented for achieving sparse solutions setting small coefficients of regression vector b to zero hard thresholding forward stepwise addition of variables that increase performance the most backward elimination of the least significant parameters etc. In LASSO there is implemented use of a L1 norm penalty as a means to obtain sparse solutions. The L1 norm refers to the sum of absolute values of a vector and in LASSO an L1 norm constraint is used for regression purposes. In this embodiment vector y is the mapped color space or pigment space. The X matrix includes for example the P C E user context measures the paint chip color dimension users selections of the pigments and the y vector includes the values that are being predicted and includes the labels or a precursor to the label that is used to make a classification or categorization based on the inputs in the matrix X. The regression vector b is to be solved using the LASSO sparse regression technique to obtain update the set of coefficients used for the model recommending.

Thus to implement Lasso multiple variables are measured including paint selection pigments identity base paint identity lighting conditions of sample viewing lighting conditions of home e.g. could be over several days seasons clutter of scene surrounding painted surface furnishing types and colors address type of home age gender socioeconomics of viewer psychological profile of viewer and so on which populate the X matrix. The task then is to regress all of these variables against the viewer s perceived color labels of y vector . To do this mapping multiple samples may be generated to paint the wall each a variation on the sample selected at the paint store. When the viewer chooses one this becomes training data that says given the original selection and multiple measures this is the pigment combination that produces the desired color perception.

In one embodiment it is assumed that color is not a mixture of pigments or even a mixture of wavelengths. It is a subjective percept and the methods described herein aim to match that in the context of the viewer viewing a painted wall to the selection mechanism.

The trans vendor tool thus obtains measures such as context of viewing which can be a set of parameters assigned to a vendor for assignment to a customer for consistent use across all vendors based on inputs from all so the tool could be used for all vendors.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions. These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

