---

title: Substituted benzoazepines as toll-like receptor modulators
abstract: Provided are compositions and methods useful for modulation of signaling through the Toll-like receptors TLR7 and/or TLR8. The compositions and methods have use in treating or preventing disease, including cancer, autoimmune disease, infectious disease, inflammatory disorder, graft rejection, and graft-versus-host disease.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09655904&OS=09655904&RS=09655904
owner: ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
number: 09655904
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150804
---
This application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 180 939 filed Feb. 14 2014 now allowed which is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 859 178 filed Aug. 18 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 691 809 which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 234 969 filed on Aug. 18 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 235 586 filed on Aug. 20 2009. The contents of each of the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This invention relates to methods and compositions for modulating immune function. More specifically this invention relates to compositions and methods for modulating TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated signaling.

Stimulation of the immune system which includes stimulation of either or both innate immunity and adaptive immunity is a complex phenomenon that can result in either protective or adverse physiologic outcomes for the host. In recent years there has been increased interest in the mechanisms underlying innate immunity which is believed to initiate and support adaptive immunity. This interest has been fueled in part by the recent discovery of a family of highly conserved pattern recognition receptor proteins known as Toll like receptors TLRs believed to be involved in innate immunity as receptors for pathogen associated molecular patterns PAMPs . Compositions and methods useful for modulating innate immunity are therefore of great interest as they may affect therapeutic approaches to conditions involving autoimmunity inflammation allergy asthma graft rejection graft versus host disease GvHD infection cancer and immunodeficiency.

Toll like receptors TLRs are type I transmembrane proteins that allow organisms including mammals to detect microbes and initiate an innate immune response Beutler B. 2004 430 257 263 . They contain homologous cytoplasmic domains and leucine rich extracellular domains and typically form homodimers that sense extracellular or internalized signals and subsequently initiate a signal transduction cascade via adaptor molecules such as MyD88 myeloid differentiation factor 88 . There is such high homology in the cytoplasmic domains of the TLRs that initially it was suggested that similar signaling pathways exist for all TLRs Re F. Strominger J. L. 2004 209 191 198 . Indeed all TLRs can activate NF kB and MAP kinases however the cytokine chemokine release profiles derived from TLR activation appears unique to each TLR. Additionally the signaling pathway that TLRs stimulate is very similar to the pathway that the cytokine receptor IL 1R induces. This may be due to the homology that these receptors share i.e. TIR Toll IL 1R homology domains. Once the TIR domain is activated in TLRs and MyD88 is recruited activation of the IRAK family of serine threonine kinases results which eventually promotes the degradation of Ik B and activation of NF kB Means T. K. et al. 2000 68 241258 . While it appears that this cascade is designed to allow extracellular stimuli to promote intracellular events there is evidence that some TLRs migrate to endosomes where signaling can also be initiated. This process may allow for intimate contact with engulfed microbes and fits with the role that these receptors play in the innate immune response Underhill D. M. et al. 1999 401 811 815 . This process might also allow host nucleic acids released by damaged tissues for example in inflammatory disease or apoptosis to trigger a response via endosomal presentation. Among mammals there are 11 TLRs that coordinate this rapid response. A hypothesis put forward years ago Janeway C. A. Jr. 1989 54 1 13 that the innate immune response initiates the adaptive immune response through the pattern of TLR activation caused by microbes has now been substantiated. Thus the pathogen associated molecular patterns PAMPs presented by a diverse group of infectious organisms results in a innate immune response involving certain cytokines chemokines and growth factors followed by a precise adaptive immune response tailored to the infectious pathogen via antigen presentation resulting in antibody production and cytotoxic T cell generation.

Gram negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide LPS has long been appreciated as an adjuvant and immune stimulant and as a pharmacological tool for inducing an inflammatory reaction in mammals similar to septic shock. Using a genetic approach TLR4 was identified as the receptor for LPS. The discovery that LPS is an agonist of TLR4 illustrates the usefulness of TLR modulation for vaccine and human disease therapy Aderem A. Ulevitch R. J. 2000 406 782 787 . It is now appreciated that various TLR agonists can activate B cells neutrophils mast cells eosinophils endothelial cells and several types of epithelia in addition to regulating proliferation and apoptosis of certain cell types.

To date TLR7 and TLR8 which are somewhat similar have been characterized as receptors for single stranded RNA found in endosomal compartments and thus thought to be important for the immune response to viral challenge. Imiquimod an approved topical anti viral anti cancer drug has recently been described as a TLR7 agonist that has demonstrated clinical efficacy in certain skin disorders Miller R. L. et al. 1999 21 1 14 . This small molecule drug has been described as a structural mimetic of ssRNA. TLR8 was first described in 2000 Du X. et al. 2000 September 11 3 362 371 and was rapidly ascribed to being involved with the innate immune response to viral infection Miettinen M. et al. 2001 October 2 6 349 355 .

Recently it was reported that certain imidazoquinoline compounds having antiviral activity are ligands of TLR7 and TLR8 Hemmi H. et al. 2002 3 196 200 Jurk M. et al. 2002 3 499 . Imidazoquinolines are potent synthetic activators of immune cells with antiviral and antitumor properties. Using macrophages from wildtype and MyD88 deficient mice Hemmi et al. recently reported that two imidazoquinolines imiquimod and resiquimod R848 induce tumor necrosis factor TNF and interleukin 12 IL 12 and activate NF icB only in wildtype cells consistent with activation through a TLR Hemmi H. et al. 2002 3 196 200 . Macrophages from mice deficient in TLR7 but not other TLRs produced no detectable cytokines in response to these imidazoquinolines. In addition the imidazoquinolines induced dose dependent proliferation of splenic B cells and the activation of intracellular signaling cascades in cells from wildtype but not TLR7 mice. Luciferase analysis established that expression of human TLR7 but not TLR2 or TLR4 in human embryonic kidney cells results in NF KB activation in response to resiquimod. The findings of Hemmi et al. thus suggest that these imidazoquinoline compounds are non natural ligands of TLR7 that can induce signaling through TLR7. Recently it was reported that R848 is also a ligand for human TLR8 Jurk M. et al. 2002 Nat. Immunol. 3 499 .

In view of the great therapeutic potential for compounds that modulate toll like receptors and despite the work that has already been done there is a substantial ongoing need to expand their use and therapeutic benefits.

The compositions described herein are useful for modulating immune responses in vitro and in vivo. Such compositions will find use in a number of clinical applications such as in methods for treating or preventing conditions involving unwanted immune activity including inflammatory and autoimmune disorders.

Ris selected from aryl heteroaryl and saturated or partially saturated heterocycle wherein when x is 0 said aryl or heteroaryl is substituted with C O NRRor T 

Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen and alkyl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with C O O CH Ror Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a saturated heterocyclic ring 

Ris selected from alkyl CH R and hydrogen wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with halogen amine alkylamine or dialkylamine 

Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl O CH P wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OH 

Ris selected from aryl and saturated or partially saturated heterocycle wherein said aryl is substituted with T 

Ris selected from alkyl CH R and hydrogen wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with halogen amine alkylamine or dialkylamine 

The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with other known therapeutic agents. Accordingly this invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention or a salt thereof in combination with a second therapeutic agent.

This invention further provides methods of modulating TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated signaling comprising contacting a cell expressing TLR7 and or TLR8 with an effective amount of a compound of the invention or a salt thereof. In one aspect the method inhibits TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated immunostimulatory signaling.

This invention further provides methods of modulating TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated immunostimulation in a subject comprising administering to a patient having or at risk of developing TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated immunostimulation a compound of the invention or a salt thereof in an amount effective to inhibit TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated immunostimulation in the subject.

This invention further provides methods of modulating TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated immunostimulation in a subject comprising administering to a patient having or at risk of developing TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated immunostimulation a compound of the invention or a salt thereof in an amount effective to promote TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated immunostimulation in the subject.

This invention further provides methods of treating or preventing a disease or condition by modulation of TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated cellular activities comprising administering to a warm blooded animal such as a mammal for example a human having or at risk of developing said disease or condition a compound of the invention or a salt thereof.

This invention further provides methods of modulating the immune system of a mammal comprising administering to a mammal a compound of the invention or a salt thereof in an amount effective to modulate said immune system.

Further provided is a compound of the invention or a salt thereof for use as a medicament in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein e.g. cancer autoimmune disease infectious disease inflammatory disorder graft rejection and graft versus host disease in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of the invention a salt thereof in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein e.g. cancer autoimmune disease infectious disease inflammatory disorder graft rejection and graft versus host disease in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition.

Further provided is a compound of the invention or a salt thereof for use as a medicament in the prevention of the diseases or conditions described herein e.g. cancer autoimmune disease infectious disease inflammatory disorder graft rejection and graft versus host disease in a mammal for example a human exposed to or predisposed to the disease or condition but the mammal does not yet experience or display symptoms of such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of the invention a salt thereof in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein e.g. cancer autoimmune disease infectious disease inflammatory disorder graft rejection and graft versus host disease in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition.

The disease or condition is selected from for example cancer autoimmune disease infectious disease inflammatory disorder graft rejection and graft versus host disease.

This invention further provides kits comprising one or more compounds of the invention or a salt thereof. The kit may further comprise a second compound or formulation comprising a second pharmaceutical agent.

Additional advantages and novel features of this invention shall be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following specification or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by means of the instrumentalities combinations compositions and methods particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

In certain aspects the invention provides compositions and methods useful for modulating TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated signaling. More specifically one aspect of this invention provides a compound having the formula I 

Ris selected from aryl heteroaryl and saturated or partially saturated heterocycle wherein when x is 0 said aryl or heteroaryl is substituted with C O NRRor T 

Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen and alkyl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with C O O CH Ror Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a saturated heterocyclic ring 

Ris selected from alkyl CH R and hydrogen wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with halogen amine alkylamine or dialkylamine 

Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl O CH P wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more OH 

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula I where Ris aryl or heteroaryl and x y 1.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula I where Ris aryl or heteroaryl and Ris substituted with T.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula I where Ris aryl or heteroaryl and Ris NRRwhere at least one of Ror Ris O CH P and q r 1.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula I where Ris aryl or heteroaryl and at least one of Ror Ris alkyl substituted with C O O CH R.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula I where Ris aryl or heteroaryl Ris substituted with T T is O CH C O Rand u s 2.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula I where Ris aryl or heteroaryl Ris substituted with T and T is selected from heterocycle CHR OR O CH C O R and OSOR.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula I where Ris selected from C Caryl heteroaryl comprising 1 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S and saturated or partially saturated heterocycle comprising 1 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S wherein when x is 0 said C Caryl or heteroaryl comprising 1 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S is substituted with C O NRRor T.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula II IIa or IIb or a salt thereof wherein W is CH.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I II IIa or IIb or a salt thereof wherein T is O CH C O R. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein u is 1 and s is 1. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein u is 0 and s is 1. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein u is 0 and s is 2. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein Ris O alkyl. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein Ris O alkyl and alkyl is selected from methyl ethyl isopropyl and isobutyl.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I II IIa or IIb or a salt thereof wherein T is heterocycle. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein the heterocycle is selected from dihydrofuranone and dioxolanone. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound wherein heterocycle is selected from

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I II IIa or IIb or a salt thereof wherein T is CHR OR.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I II IIa or IIb or a salt thereof wherein T is OSOR. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein Ris CF.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula II IIa or IIb or a salt thereof wherein W is N. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein T is CHR OR. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein z is 1 and Rand Rare both hydrogen. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein z is 2 Ris OH or H and Ris H.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof having the formula I III IIIa or IIIb wherein x 0 and y 3.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof having the formula I III IIIa or IIIb wherein Ris phenyl.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof having the formula I III IIIa or IIIb wherein Ris heterocycle. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein said heterocycle is partially saturated heterocycle. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein said heterocycle is morpholine. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein said heterocycle is isobenzofuranone. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein said isobenzofuranone is selected from

Another aspect of the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof having the formula I II IIa IIb III IIIa or IIIb wherein Ris OR. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein Ris alkyl. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein Ris ethyl.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a compound or salt thereof having the formula I II IIa IIb III IIIa or IIIb wherein Ris NRR. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein Rand Rare both alkyl. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein Rand Rare both propyl. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein at least one of Ror Ris alkyl substituted with one OH. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein at least one of Ror Ris

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I or IV or a salt thereof wherein t 3.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I IV IVa or IVb or a salt thereof wherein P is selected from aryl heterocycle and SOR.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I IV IVa or IVb or a salt thereof wherein P is heterocycle. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or salt thereof wherein P is selected from piperidine and pyrrolidine.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I IV IVa or IVb or a salt thereof wherein P is aryl.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I IV IVa or IVb or a salt thereof wherein P is SOR. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein said Ris NH.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula I IV IVa or IVb or a salt thereof wherein x 0 and y 0. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein Ris aryl. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein said aryl is substituted with C O NRR. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein said Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a saturated heterocyclic ring. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein said saturated heterocyclic ring is a pyrrolidine ring.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula V or a salt thereof wherein at least one of Ror Ris alkyl substituted with C O O CH R. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein said Ris aryl. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof wherein Ror Ris H.

Ris selected from aryl and saturated or partially saturated heterocycle wherein said aryl is substituted with T 

Ris selected from alkyl CH R and hydrogen wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with halogen amine alkylamine or dialkylamine 

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound of formula VI or a salt thereof wherein Ris aryl substituted with O CH C O R. In another embodiment said Ris OR.

Ris selected from aryl and saturated or partially saturated heterocycle wherein said aryl is substituted with T 

Ris selected from alkyl CH R and hydrogen wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with halogen amine alkylamine or dialkylamine 

Ris selected from alkyl CH R and hydrogen wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with halogen amine alkylamine or dialkylamine 

In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula VI wherein Rand Rare independently alkyl and further wherein one of Rand Ris substituted with one or more OH while the other is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula VI wherein Rand Rare independently unsubstituted alkyl. In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula VI wherein Ris aryl. In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula VI wherein Ris phenyl. In another embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula VI wherein Ris saturated or partially saturated heterocycle.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof selected from a compound in Table 1. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof selected from Compound 196 197 183 191 192 193 199 205 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 223 224 226 and 225. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof selected from Compound 113 175 116 118 and 177. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof selected from Compound 148 185 184 200 198 221 and 222. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof selected from Compound 198 225 191 192 193 196 197 221 205 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 222 223 and 224. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof selected from Compound 198 225 191 192 193 197 221 205 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 222 and 223. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound or a salt thereof selected from Compound 191 196 and 224.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula I. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula II. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula IIa. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula IIb. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula III. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula IIIa. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula IIIb. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula IIIc. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula IV. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula IVa. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula IVb. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula V. In one embodiment the invention relates to a compound having the formula VI.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a compound of the invention or salt thereof wherein the salt is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a kit for treating a TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated condition comprising 

 a a first pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the invention or salt thereof and b optionally instructions for use.

In one embodiment the kit further comprises c a second pharmaceutical composition wherein the second pharmaceutical composition comprises a second compound for treating a TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated condition.

In one embodiment the kit further comprises instructions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of said first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound of the invention or salt thereof together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a compound of the invention or salt thereof for use as a medicament for treating a TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated condition in a human or animal. In one embodiment the invention relates to the use of a compound of the invention or salt thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of an abnormal cell growth condition in a human or animal.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method of treating a TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated condition comprising administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a compound of the invention or salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method of modulating a patient s immune system comprising administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a compound of the invention or salt thereof.

In one aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 25 000 nM for TLR8. In another aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 10 000 nM for TLR8. In another aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 1 000 nM for TLR8. In another aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 100 nM for TLR8. In another aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 25 nM for TLR8.

In one aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 25 000 nM for TLR7. In another aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 10 000 nM for TLR7. In another aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 1 000 nM for TLR7. In another aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 100 nM for TLR7. In another aspect the invention includes a compound or salt thereof with an MCvalue 25 nM for TLR7.

In one aspect the invention does not include a compound or salt thereof with an MC 25 000 for TLR7. In one aspect the invention does not include a compound or salt thereof with an MC 25 000 for TLR8. In one aspect the invention does not include a compound or salt thereof with MCvalues 25 000 for both TLR7 and for TLR8.

Another aspect of the invention relates to soft drugs also known as antedrugs . Soft drugs can be defined as biologically active chemical compounds drugs which are metabolically deactivated after they achieve their therapeutic role at their designed site of action. The use of soft drugs instead of their non deactivatable analogs can avoid unwanted side effects. In one aspect the metabolic disposition of the soft drugs takes place with a controllable rate in a predictable manner. One embodiment of the invention relates to compounds that are soft drugs. Specifically the invention relates to compounds that are designed to cleave in vivo after achieving their therapeutic effect to a less active moiety. The invention relates to compounds that are designed to cleave in vivo after achieving their therapeutic effect to a non toxic moiety. Soft drugs of the invention include compounds such as Compound 225 192 193 197 198 205 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 221 222 and 223.

The term compound of the invention refers to exemplified compounds and compounds covered under the formulae described herein.

The term substituted as used herein means that any one or more hydrogen atoms on the designated atom is replaced with a selection from the indicated group provided that the designated atom s normal valency is not exceeded and that the substitution results in a stable compound. When a substituent is keto i.e. O then 2 hydrogens on the atom are replaced. Ring double bonds as used herein are double bonds that are formed between two adjacent ring atoms e.g. C C C N or N N .

A chemical structure showing a dotted line representation for a chemical bond indicates that the bond is optionally present. For example a dotted line drawn next to a solid single bond indicates that the bond can be either a single bond or a double bond.

When a bond to a substituent is shown to cross a bond connecting two atoms in a ring then such substituent can be bonded to any atom on the ring.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical having one to twelve including one to ten carbon atoms C C one to six carbon atoms C C and one to four carbon atoms C C wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. Examples of alkyl radicals include hydrocarbon moieties such as but not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl and 1 octyl.

The term alkenyl refers to a linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical having two to 10 carbon atoms C C including two to six carbon atoms C C and two to four carbon atoms C C and at least one double bond and includes but is not limited to ethenyl propenyl 1 but 3 enyl 1 pent 3 enyl 1 hex 5 enyl and the like wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. The term alkenyl includes allyl.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms C C including two to 10 carbon atoms C C two to six carbon atoms C C and two to four carbon atoms C C containing at least one triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentyn 2 yl and the like wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl or cycloalkyl are used interchangeably herein and refer to saturated or partially unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon radical having from three to twelve carbon atoms C C including from three to ten carbon atoms C C and from three to six carbon atoms C C . The term cycloalkyl includes monocyclic and polycyclic e.g. bicyclic and tricyclic cycloalkyl structures wherein the polycyclic structures optionally include a saturated or partially unsaturated cycloalkyl fused to a saturated or partially unsaturated cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl ring or an aryl or heteroaryl ring. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and the like. Bicyclic carbocycles have 7 to 12 ring atoms e.g. arranged as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system or 9 or 10 ring atoms arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. The cycloalkyl may be optionally substituted independently at one or more substitutable positions with one or more substituents described herein. Such cycloalkyl groups may be optionally substituted with for example one or more groups independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkoxy halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino mono CC alkylamino di C C alkylamino C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Chaloalkyl C Chaloalkoxy amino C C alkyl mono C C alkylamino C C alkyl and di CC alkylamino C C alkyl.

The term cycloalkenyl refers to a partially unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon radical having from three to ten carbon atoms C C including from three to six carbon atoms C C and having at least one double bond within the carbocycle.

The term heteroalkyl refers to saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C including from one to six carbon atoms C C and from one to four carbon atoms C C wherein at least one of the carbon atoms is replaced with a heteroatom selected from N O or S and wherein the radical may be a carbon radical or heteroatom radical i.e. the heteroatom may appear in the middle or at the end of the radical . The heteroalkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. The term heteroalkyl encompasses alkoxy and heteroalkoxy radicals.

The terms heterocycloalkyl heterocycle and heterocyclyl are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or partially unsaturated carbocyclic radical of 3 to 8 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. The radical may be a carbon radical or heteroatom radical. The term heterocycle includes heterocycloalkoxy. The term further includes fused ring systems which include a heterocycle fused to an aromatic group. Heterocycloalkyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with aromatic or heteroaromatic rings. Examples of heterocycloalkyl rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. The foregoing groups as derived from the groups listed above may be C attached or N attached where such is possible. For instance a group derived from pyrrole may be pyrrol 1 yl N attached or pyrrol 3 yl C attached . Further a group derived from imidazole may be imidazol 1 yl N attached or imidazol 3 yl C attached . An example of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties is 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are unsubstituted or as specified substituted in one or more substitutable positions with various groups. For example such heterocycle groups may be optionally substituted with for example one or more groups independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkoxy halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino mono C C alkylamino di C C6 alkylamino C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Chaloalkyl C Chaloalkoxy amino C C alkyl mono C C alkylamino C C alkyl or di C C alkylamino C C alkyl.

The term aryl refers to a monovalent aromatic carbocyclic radical having a single ring e.g. phenyl multiple rings e.g. biphenyl or multiple condensed rings in which at least one is aromatic e.g. 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl naphthyl etc. which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from for example halogen lower alkyl lower alkoxy trifluoromethyl aryl heteroaryl and hydroxy. In one embodiment the aryl is a 6 membered aryl. For example aryl is phenyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 10 atoms containing at least one and up to four heteroatoms selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl imidazolyl pyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl isobenzofuran 1 3H one and furopyridinyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from for example halogen lower alkyl lower alkoxy haloalkyl aryl heteroaryl and hydroxy.

In general the various moieties or functional groups of the compounds of the invention may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents. Examples of substituents suitable for purposes of this invention include but are not limited to oxo halogen cyano nitro trifluoromethyl difluoromethoxy trifluoromethoxy azido NR SOR SONR R C O R C O OR OC O R NR C O OR NR C O R C O NR R NRC O NR NRC NCN NR R OR aryl heteroaryl arylalkyl heteroarylalkyl heterocyclyl and heterocyclylalkyl where R R and R are independently H alkyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl or heteroaryl.

An alkyl aryl group as used herein is an aryl substituent that is linked to a compound by a straight chain or branched alkyl group having from one to twelve carbon atoms. In one aspect the aryl substituent is linked to a compound by a straight chain or branched alkyl group having 1 6 carbon atoms. The alkyl moiety of the alkyl aryl group is optionally substituted. In one embodiment the aryl is a 6 membered aryl. For example aryl is phenyl.

An alkyl heterocycloalkyl group as used herein is a heterocycle substituent that is linked to a compound by a straight chain or branched alkyl group having from one to twelve carbon atoms. In one aspect the heterocycle substituent is linked to a compound by a straight chain or branched alkyl group having 1 6 carbon atoms. The alkyl moiety of the alkyl heterocycle group is optionally substituted.

An alkyl cycloalkyl group as used herein is a cycloalkyl substituent that is linked to a compound by a straight chain or branched alkyl group having from one to twelve carbon atoms. In one aspect the cycloalkyl substituent is linked to a compound by a straight chain or branched alkyl group having 1 6 carbon atoms. The alkyl moiety of the alkyl cycloalkyl group is optionally substituted.

An alkyl cycloalkenyl group as used herein is a cycloalkenyl substituent that is linked to a compound by a straight chain or branched alkyl group having from one to twelve carbon atoms. In one aspect the cycloalkenyl substituent is linked to a compound by a straight chain or branched alkyl group having 1 6 carbon atoms. The alkyl moiety of the alkyl cycloalkenyl group is optionally substituted.

The compounds of this invention may possess one or more asymmetric centers such compounds can therefore be produced as individual R or S stereoisomers or as mixtures thereof. Unless indicated otherwise the description or naming of a particular compound in the specification and claims is intended to include both individual enantiomers diastereomers mixtures racemic or otherwise thereof. Accordingly this invention also includes all such isomers including diastereomeric mixtures pure diastereomers and pure enantiomers of the compounds and formulae described herein.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods known to those skilled in the art for example by chromatography or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomer mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. alcohol separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column. Methods for the determination of stereochemistry and the separation of stereoisomers are well known in the art see discussion in Chapter 4 of Advanced Organic Chemistry 4th edition J. March John Wiley and Sons New York 1992 .

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine a methyl 13 phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters for example a menthyl ester such as menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester a methoxya trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III 1982 J. Org. Chem. 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto 1990 J. of Chromatogr. 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

 Tautomer refers to a compound whose structures differ markedly in arrangement of atoms but which exist in easy and rapid equilibrium. It is to be understood that the compounds of the invention may be depicted as different tautomers. It should also be understood that when compounds have tautomeric forms all tautomeric forms are intended to be within the scope of the invention and the naming of the compounds does not exclude any tautomer form.

The present invention is intended to include all isotopes of atoms occurring in the present compounds. Isotopes include those atoms having the same atomic number but different mass numbers. By way of general example and without limitation isotopes of hydrogen include tritium and deuterium and isotopes of carbon include C 13 and C 14.

In addition to compounds of the invention the invention also includes pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such compounds.

A pharmaceutically acceptable salt unless otherwise indicated includes salts that retain the biological effectiveness of the free acids and bases of the specified compound and that are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. A compound of the invention may possess a sufficiently acidic a sufficiently basic or both functional groups and accordingly react with any of a number of inorganic or organic bases and inorganic and organic acids to form a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those salts prepared by reaction of the compounds of the present invention with a mineral or organic acid or an inorganic base such salts including sulfates pyrosulfates bisulfates sulfites bisulfites phosphates monohydrogenphosphates dihydrogenphosphates metaphosphates pyrophosphates chlorides bromides iodides acetates propionates decanoates caprylates acrylates formates isobutyrates caproates heptanoates propiolates oxalates malonates succinates suberates sebacates fumarates maleates butyn 1 4 dioates hexyne 1 6 dioates benzoates chlorobenzoates methylbenzoates dinitrobenzoates hydroxybenzoates methoxybenzoates phthalates sulfonates xylenesulfonates pheylacetates phenylpropionates phenylbutyrates citrates lactates y hydroxybutyrates glycollates tartrates methanesulfonates propanesulfonates naphthalene 1 sulfonates naphthalene 2 sulfonates and mandelates. Since a single compound of the present invention may include more than one acidic or basic moieties the compounds of the present invention may include mono di or tri salts in a single compound.

If the inventive compound is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an acidic compound particularly an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the inventive compound is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base. Examples of suitable inorganic salts include those formed with alkali and alkaline earth metals such as lithium sodium potassium barium and calcium. Examples of suitable organic base salts include for example ammonium dibenzylammonium benzylammonium 2 hydroxyethylammonium bis 2 hydroxyethyl ammonium phenylethylbenzylamine dibenzylethylenediamine and the like salts. Other salts of acidic moieties may include for example those salts formed with procaine quinine and Nmethylglucosamine plus salts formed with basic amino acids such as glycine ornithine histidine phenylglycine lysine and arginine.

The present invention also provides salts of compounds of the invention which are not necessarily pharmaceutically acceptable salts but which may be useful as intermediates for preparing and or purifying compounds of the invention and or for separating enantiomers of compounds of the invention.

The inventive compounds may be prepared using the reaction routes and synthesis schemes as described in Scheme I employing the techniques available in the art using starting materials that are readily available.

In Scheme I compounds of Formula II may be prepared from an alkyl arene of Formula I by treatment with dimethylformamide dimethyl acetal with or without the use of pyrrolidine J. Org. Chem. 1986 51 26 5106 5110 in DMF at 70 90 C. The crude intermediate not shown may be cleaved to the aldehyde of Formula II with NaIO4 in THF pH 7.2 phosphate buffer at or around room temperature. The aldehyde of Formula II may be olefinated with phosphonium glide in toluene at temperatures ranging from 70 to 110 C. 1 16 hours to give compounds of Formula III. Compounds of Formula IV can be prepared from a compound of Formula III using iron powder in acetic acid. The reaction may be conducted at temperatures of about 90 C. for about 3 14 hours.

It is noted that some of the preparations of compounds of the invention described herein may require protection of remote functionalities. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the functionality and the conditions used in the preparation methods and can be readily determined by those skilled in the art. Such protection deprotection methods are well known to those skilled in the art.

The compounds of the invention find use in a variety of applications. For example in certain aspects the invention provides methods for modulating TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated signaling. The methods of the invention are useful for example when it is desirable to alter TLR7 and or and or TLR8 mediated signaling in response to a suitable TLR7 and or TLR8 ligand or a TLR7 and or TLR8 signaling agonist.

As used herein the terms TLR7 and or TLR8 ligand ligand for TLR7 and or TLR8 and TLR7 and or TLR8 signaling agonist refer to a molecule other than a compound of the invention that interacts directly or indirectly with TLR7 and or TLR8 and induces TLR7 and or TLR8mediated signaling. In certain embodiments a TLR7 and or TLR8 ligand is a natural ligand i.e. a TLR7 and or TLR8 ligand that is found in nature. In certain embodiments a TLR7 and or TLR8 ligand refers to a molecule other than a natural ligand of TLR7 and or TLR8 e.g. a molecule prepared by human activity.

The term modulate as used herein with respect to the TLR7 and or TLR8 receptors means the mediation of a pharmacodynamic response in a subject by i inhibiting or activating the receptor or ii directly or indirectly affecting the normal regulation of the receptor activity. Compounds that modulate the receptor activity include agonists antagonists mixed agonists antagonists and compounds that directly or indirectly affect regulation of the receptor activity.

The term agonist refers to a compound that in combination with a receptor e.g. a TLR can produce a cellular response. An agonist may be a ligand that directly binds to the receptor. Alternatively an agonist may combine with a receptor indirectly by for example a forming a complex with another molecule that directly binds to the receptor or b otherwise resulting in the modification of another compound so that the other compound directly binds to the receptor. An agonist may be referred to as an agonist of a particular TLR e.g. a TLR7 and or TLR8 agonist . The term partial agonist refers to a compound that produces a partial but not a full cellular response. TLR7 and TLR8 related assays are known in the art e.g. Gorden et al. 177 pp. 8164 8170 2006 and Zhu et al. vol. 45 11 pp. 3238 3242 2008 .

The term antagonist as used herein refers to a compound that competes with an agonist or partial agonist for binding to a receptor thereby blocking the action of an agonist or partial agonist on the receptor. More specifically an antagonist is a compound that inhibits the activity of a TRL7 or a TLR8 agonist at the TLR7 or TLR8 receptor respectively.

 Inhibit refers to any measurable reduction of biological activity. Thus as used herein inhibit or inhibition may be referred to as a percentage of a normal level of activity.

In one aspect of this invention a method of treating or preventing a condition or disorder treatable by modulation of TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated cellular activities in a subject comprises administering to said subject a composition comprising a compound of the invention in an amount effective to treat or prevent the condition or disorder. The term TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated refers to a biological or biochemical activity that results from TLR7 and or TLR8 function.

Conditions and disorders that can be treated by the methods of this invention include but are not limited to cancer immune complex associated diseases autoimmune diseases or disorders inflammatory disorders immunodeficiency graft rejection graft versus host disease allergies cardiovascular disease fibrotic disease asthma infection and sepsis.

More specifically methods useful in the treatment of conditions involving cancer therapeutic or cancer vaccine allergic disease e.g. atopic dermatitis allergic rhinitis asthma infectious disease prophylaxis with vaccine and anti viral and immunodeficiency will employ compounds of the invention that inhibit TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated signaling.

Alternatively methods useful in the treatment of conditions involving autoimmune disease CF sepsis graft rejection and GVHD generally will employ compounds of the invention that augment TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated signaling.

In some instances the compositions can be used to inhibit or promote TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated signaling in response to a TLR7 and or TLR8 ligand or signaling agonist. In other instances the compositions can be used to inhibit or promote TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated immunostimulation in a subject.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means at least the mitigation of a disease or condition and includes but is not limited to modulating and or inhibiting an existing disease or condition and or alleviating the disease or condition to which such term applies or one or more symptoms of such disease or condition. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating as treating is defined immediately above. Therapeutic treatment refers to treatment initiated after observation of symptoms and or a suspected exposure to a causative agent of the disease or condition. Generally therapeutic treatment may reduce the severity and or duration of symptoms associated with the disease or condition.

As used herein preventing means causing the clinical symptoms of a disease or condition not to develop i.e. inhibiting the onset of a disease or condition in a subject that may be exposed to or predisposed to the disease or condition but does not yet experience or display symptoms of the disease or condition. Prophylatic treatment means that a compound of the invention is administered to a subject prior to observation of symptoms and or a suspected exposure to a causative agent of the condition e.g. a pathogen or carcinogen . Generally prophylactic treatment may reduce a the likelihood that a subject that receives the treatment develops the condition and or b the duration and or severity of symptoms in the event the subject develops the condition.

As used herein the terms autoimmune disease autoimmune disorder and autoimmunity refer to immunologically mediated acute or chronic injury to a tissue or organ derived from the host. The terms encompass both cellular and antibody mediated autoimmune phenomena as well as organ specific and organ nonspecific autoimmunity. Autoimmune diseases include insulin dependent diabetes mellitus rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis atherosclerosis and inflammatory bowel disease. Autoimmune diseases also include without limitation ankylosing spondylitis autoimmune hemolytic anemia Bechet s syndrome Goodpasture s syndrome Graves disease Guillain Barre syndrome Hashimoto s thyroiditis idiopathic thrombocytopenia myasthenia gravis pernicious anemia polyarteritis nodosa polymyositis dermatomyositis primary biliary sclerosis psoriasis sarcoidosis sclerosing cholangitis Sjogren s syndrome systemic sclerosis scleroderma and CREST syndrome Takayasu s arteritis temporal arteritis and Wegener s granulomatosis. Autoimmune diseases also include certain immune complex associated diseases.

As used here in the term fibrotic disease refers to diseases or disorders involving excessive and persistent formation of scar tissue associated with organ failure in a variety of chronic diseases affecting the lungs kidneys eyes heart liver and skin. Although tissue remodeling and scarring is part of the normal wound healing process repeated injury or insult can lead to persistent and excessive scarring and ultimately organ failure.

Fibrotic conditions include diffuse fibrotic lung disease chronic kidney disease including diabetic kidney disease liver fibrosis e.g. chronic liver disease CLD caused by continuous and repeated insults to the liver from causes such as are viral hepatitis B and C alcoholic cirrhosis or non alcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD or primary sclerosing cholangitis PSC a rare disease characterized by fibrosing inflammatory destruction of the bile ducts inside and outside the liver leading to bile stasis liver fibrosis and ultimately to cirrhosis and end stage liver disease lung fibrosis e.g. idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF and systemic sclerosis a degenerative disorder in which excessive fibrosis occurs in multiple organ systems including the skin blood vessels heart lungs and kidneys .

Other examples include cystic fibrosis of the pancreas and lungs injection fibrosis which can occur as a complication of intramuscular injections especially in children endomyocardial fibrosis mediastinal fibrosis myelofibrosis retroperitoneal fibrosis progressive massive fibrosis a complication of coal workers pneumoconiosis nephrogenic systemic fibrosis and complication of certain types of surgical implants e.g. occurrence in attempts at creating an artificial pancreas for the treatment of diabetes mellitus.

As used herein the term cardiovascular disease refers to diseases or disorders of the cardiovascular system involving an inflammatory component and or the accumulation of plaque including without limitation coronary artery disease cerebrovascular disease peripheral arterial disease atherosclerosis and arteriosclerosis.

As used herein the terms cancer and tumor refer to a condition in which abnormally replicating cells of host origin are present in a detectable amount in a subject. The cancer can be a malignant or non malignant cancer. Cancers or tumors include but are not limited to biliary tract cancer brain cancer breast cancer cervical cancer choriocarcinoma colon cancer endometrial cancer esophageal cancer gastric stomach cancer intraepithelial neoplasms leukemias lymphomas liver cancer lung cancer e.g. small cell and non small cell melanoma neuroblastomas oral cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer renal kidney cancer sarcomas skin cancer testicular cancer thyroid cancer as well as other carcinomas and sarcomas. Cancers can be primary or metastatic.

As used herein the terms inflammatory disease and inflammatory disorder refer to a condition characterized by inflammation e.g. a localized protective reaction of tissue to irritation injury or infection characterized by pain redness swelling and sometimes loss of function. Inflammatory diseases or disorders include e.g. allergy asthma and allergic rash.

As used herein the term immune complex associated disease refers to any disease characterized by the production and or tissue deposition of immune complexes i.e. any conjugate including an antibody and an antigen specifically bound by the antibody including but not limited to systemic lupus erythematosus SLE and related connective tissue diseases rheumatoid arthritis hepatitis C and hepatitis B related immune complex disease e.g. cryoglobulinemia Bechet s syndrome autoimmune glomerulonephritides and vasculopathy associated with the presence of LDL anti LDL immune complexes.

As used herein immunodeficiency refers to a disease or disorder in which the subject s immune system is not functioning in normal capacity or in which it would be useful to boost a subject s immune response for example to eliminate a tumor or cancer e.g. tumors of the brain lung e.g. small cell and non small cell ovary breast prostate colon as well as other carcinomas and sarcomas or an infection in a subject. The immunodeficiency can be acquired or it can be congenital.

As used herein graft rejection refers to immunologically mediated hyperacute acute or chronic injury to a tissue or organ derived from a source other than the host. The term thus encompasses both cellular and antibody mediated rejection as well as rejection of both allografts and xenografts.

 Graft versus host disease GvHD is a reaction of donated bone marrow against a patient s own tissue. GVHD is seen most often in cases where the blood marrow donor is unrelated to the patient or when the donor is related to the patient but not a perfect match. There are two forms of GVHD an early form called acute GVHD that occurs soon after the transplant when the white cells are on the rise and a late form called chronic GVHD.

T mediated atopic diseases include but are not limited to atopic dermatitis or eczema eosinophilia asthma allergy allergic rhinitis and Ommen s syndrome.

As used herein allergy refers to acquired hypersensitivity to a substance allergen . Allergic conditions include eczema allergic rhinitis or coryza hay fever asthma urticaria hives and food allergies and other atopic conditions

As used herein asthma refers to a disorder of the respiratory system characterized by inflammation narrowing of the airways and increased reactivity of the airways to inhaled agents. Asthma is frequently although not exclusively associated with atopic or allergic symptoms. For example asthma can be precipitated by exposure to an allergen exposure to cold air respiratory infection and exertion.

As used herein the terms infection and equivalently infectious disease refer to a condition in which an infectious organism or agent is present in a detectable amount in the blood or in a normally sterile tissue or normally sterile compartment of a subject. Infectious organisms and agents include viruses bacteria fungi and parasites. The terms encompass both acute and chronic infections as well as sepsis.

As used herein the term sepsis refers to the presence of bacteria bacteremia or other infectious organisms or their toxins in the blood septicemia or in other tissue of the body.

Further provided is a compound of the invention or a salt thereof for use as a medicament in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described above in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of the invention or a salt thereof in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described above in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disorder.

This invention also encompasses pharmaceutical compositions containing a compound of the invention and methods of treating or preventing conditions and disorders by modulation of TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated cellular activities by administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the invention or a salt thereof to a patient in need thereof.

In order to use a compound of the invention or a salt thereof for the therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition.

According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition that comprises a compound of the invention or a salt thereof as defined hereinbefore in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

To prepare the pharmaceutical compositions according to this invention a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound of the invention or a salt thereof alone or together with an additional therapeutic agent as disclosed herein is intimately admixed for example with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques to produce a dose. A carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration e.g. oral or parenteral. Examples of suitable carriers include any and all solvents dispersion media adjuvants coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents sweeteners stabilizers to promote long term storage emulsifiers binding agents thickening agents salts preservatives solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents flavoring agents and miscellaneous materials such as buffers and absorbents that may be needed in order to prepare a particular therapeutic composition. The use of such media and agents with pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with a compound of the invention its use in the therapeutic compositions and preparations is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients can also be incorporated into the compositions and preparations as described herein.

The compositions of the invention may be in a form suitable for oral use for example as tablets lozenges hard or soft capsules aqueous or oily suspensions emulsions dispersible powders or granules syrups or elixirs for topical use for example as creams ointments gels or aqueous or oily solutions or suspensions for administration by inhalation for example as a finely divided powder or a liquid aerosol for administration by insufflation for example as a finely divided powder or for parenteral administration for example as a sterile aqueous or oily solution for intravenous subcutaneous or intramuscular dosing or as a suppository for rectal dosing . For example compositions intended for oral use may contain for example one or more coloring sweetening flavoring and or preservative agents.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable excipients for a tablet formulation include for example inert diluents such as lactose sodium carbonate calcium phosphate or calcium carbonate granulating and disintegrating agents such as corn starch or algenic acid binding agents such as starch lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc preservative agents such as ethyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate and anti oxidants such as ascorbic acid. Tablet formulations may be uncoated or coated either to modify their disintegration and the subsequent absorption of the active ingredient within the gastrointestinal tract or to improve their stability and or appearance in either case using conventional coating agents and procedures well known in the art.

Compositions for oral use may be in the form of hard gelatin capsules in which the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules in which the active ingredient is mixed with water or an oil such as peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions generally contain the active ingredient in finely powdered form together with one or more suspending agents such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinyl pyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents such as lecithin or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids for example polyoxyethylene stearate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols for example heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example polyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous suspensions may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate anti oxidants such as ascorbic acid coloring agents flavoring agents and or sweetening agents such as sucrose saccharine or aspartame .

Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil such as oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in a mineral oil such as liquid paraffin . The oily suspensions may also contain a thickening agent such as beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set out above and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid.

Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the addition of water generally contain the active ingredient together with a dispersing or wetting agent suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional excipients such as sweetening flavoring and coloring agents may also be present.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may also be in the form of oil in water emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil such as olive oil or oil or a mineral oil such as for example liquid paraffin or a mixture of any of these. Suitable emulsifying agents may be for example naturally occurring gums such as gum acacia or gum tragacanth naturally occurring phosphatides such as soya bean lecithin esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example sorbitan monooleate and condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The emulsions may also contain sweetening flavoring and preservative agents.

Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents such as glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol aspartame or sucrose and may also contain a demulcent preservative flavoring and or coloring agent.

The pharmaceutical compositions may also be in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous or oily suspension which may be formulated according to known procedures using one or more of the appropriate dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. For parenteral formulations the carrier will usually comprise sterile water aqueous sodium chloride solution 1 3 butanediol or any other suitable non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent. Other ingredients including those that aid dispersion may be included. Of course where sterile water is to be used and maintained as sterile the compositions and carriers must also be sterilized. Injectable suspensions may also be prepared in which case appropriate liquid carriers suspending agents and the like may be employed.

Suppository formulations may be prepared by mixing the active ingredient with a suitable non irritating excipient that is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug. Suitable excipients include for example cocoa butter and polyethylene glycols.

Topical formulations such as creams ointments gels and aqueous or oily solutions or suspensions may generally be obtained by formulating an active ingredient with a conventional topically acceptable vehicle or diluent using conventional procedures well known in the art.

Compositions for administration by insufflation may be in the form of a finely divided powder containing particles of average diameter of for example 30 micron or much less the powder itself comprising either active ingredient alone or diluted with one or more physiologically acceptable carriers such as lactose. The powder for insufflation is then conveniently retained in a capsule containing for example 1 to 50 mg of active ingredient for use with a turbo inhaler device such as is used for insufflation of the known agent sodium cromoglycate.

Compositions for administration by inhalation may be in the form of a conventional pressurized aerosol arranged to dispense the active ingredient either as an aerosol containing finely divided solid or liquid droplets. Conventional aerosol propellants such as volatile fluorinated hydrocarbons or hydrocarbons may be used and the aerosol device is conveniently arranged to dispense a metered quantity of active ingredient.

Compositions for transdermal administration may be in the form of those transdermal skin patches that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Other delivery systems can include time release delayed release or sustained release delivery systems. Such systems can avoid repeated administrations of the compounds increasing convenience to the subject and the physician. Many types of release delivery systems are available and known to those of ordinary skill in the art. They include polymer base systems such as poly lactide glycolide copolyoxalates polycaprolactones polyesteramides polyorthoesters polyhydroxybutyric acid and polyanhydrides. Microcapsules of the foregoing polymers containing drugs are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 109. Delivery systems also include non polymer systems that are lipids including sterols such as cholesterol cholesterol esters and fatty acids or neutral fats such as mono di and tri glycerides hydrogel release systems silastic systems peptide based systems wax coatings compressed tablets using conventional binders and excipients partially fused implants and the like. Specific examples include but are not limited to a erosional systems in which an agent of the invention is contained in a form within a matrix such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 452 775 4 675 189 and 5 736 152 and b diffusional systems in which an active component permeates at a controlled rate from a polymer such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 854 480 5 133 974 and 5 407 686. In addition pump based hardware delivery systems can be used some of which are adapted for implantation.

Compositions may be administered in the form of a solution e.g. water or isotonic saline buffered or unbuffered or as a suspension for intranasal administration as drops or as a spray. Preferably such solutions or suspensions are isotonic relative to nasal secretions and of about the same pH ranging e.g. from about pH 4.0 to about pH 7.4 or from pH 6.0 to pH 7.0. Buffers should be physiologically compatible and include simply by way of example phosphate buffers. For example a representative nasal decongestant is described as being buffered to a pH of about 6.2 Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Ed. By Arthur Osol p. 1445 1980 . Of course the ordinary artisan can readily determine a suitable saline content and pH for an innocuous aqueous carrier for nasal administration.

Other non limiting examples of intranasal dosage forms containing the composition include nasal gels creams pastes or ointments with a viscosity of e.g. from about 10 to about 3000 cps or from about 2500 to 6500 cps or greater which may provide a more sustained contact with the nasal mucosal surfaces. Such carrier viscous formulations may be based upon simply by way of example polymeric carriers such as alkylcelluloses and or other biocompatible carriers of high viscosity well known to the art see e.g. Remington s cited supra . The carrier containing the composition may also be soaked into a fabric material such as gauze that can be applied to the nasal mucosal surfaces to allow for active substances in the isolated fraction to penetrate to the mucosa.

Other ingredients such as art known preservatives colorants lubricating or viscous mineral or vegetable oils perfumes natural or synthetic plant extracts such as aromatic oils and humectants and viscosity enhancers such as e.g. glycerol can also be included to provide additional viscosity moisture retention and a pleasant texture and odor for the formulation.

Further for nasal administration of solutions or suspensions of the composition various devices are available in the art for the generation of drops droplets and sprays. For example solutions comprising the isolated fraction can be administered into the nasal passages by means of a simple dropper or pipet that includes a glass plastic or metal dispensing tube from which the contents are expelled drop by drop by means of air pressure provided by a manually powered pump e.g. a flexible rubber bulb attached to one end. Fine droplets and sprays can be provided by a manual or electrically powered intranasal pump dispenser or squeeze bottle as well known to the art e.g. that is designed to blow a mixture of air and fine droplets into the nasal passages.

The amount of a compound of this invention that is combined with one or more excipients to produce a single dosage form will necessarily vary depending upon the subject treated the severity of the disorder or condition the rate of administration the disposition of the compound and the discretion of the prescribing physician. However an effective dosage is in the range of about 0.001 to about 100 mg per kg body weight per day for example about 0.05 to about 35 mg kg day in single or divided doses. For example a dosage is about 0.0005 to about 2.5 g day. For example a dosage is about 0.0005 to about 1 g day in single or divided dosages. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day.

For further information on routes of administration and dosage regimes see Chapter 25.3 in Volume 5 of Corwin Hansch Chairman of Editorial Board Pergamon Press 1990 which is specifically incorporated herein by reference.

The size of the dose for therapeutic or prophylactic purposes of a compound of the invention will naturally vary according to the nature and severity of the conditions the age and sex of the animal or patient and the route of administration according to well known principles of medicine. It will be understood that the specific dosage level and frequency of dosage for any particular subject may be varied and will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound of the invention the species age body weight general health sex and diet of the subject the mode and time of administration rate of excretion drug combination and severity of the particular condition but can nevertheless be routinely determined by one skilled in the art.

A compound of the invention or salt thereof is in some aspects administered to a subject in combination e.g. in the same formulation or in separate formulations with another therapeutic agent combination therapy . The compound of the invention is administered in admixture with another therapeutic agent or is administered in a separate formulation. When administered in separate formulations a compound of the invention and another therapeutic agent is administered substantially simultaneously or sequentially. In one aspect a compound of the invention is administered to a subject in combination with another therapeutic agent for treating a condition or disease. In one aspect a compound of the invention is administered to a subject in combination with another therapeutic agent for preventing a condition or disease. In one aspect a compound of the invention is administered to a subject in combination with a vaccine for preventing a condition or disease. In one aspect a compound of the invention is administered to a subject in combination with an infectious disease vaccine. In one aspect a compound of the invention is administered to a subject in combination with a cancer vaccine.

A compound of the invention may be useful as a vaccine adjuvant for use in conjunction with any material that raises either humoral and or cell mediated immune response such as for example live viral bacterial or parasitic immunogens inactivated viral tumor derived protozoal organism derived fungal or bacterial immunogens toxoids toxins self antigens polysaccharides proteins glycoproteins peptides cellular vaccines DNA vaccines recombinant proteins glycoproteins peptides and the like for use in connection with for example BCG cholera plague typhoid hepatitis A hepatitis B hepatitis C influenza A influenza B parainfluenza polio rabies measles mumps rubella yellow fever tetanus diphtheria hemophilus influenza b tuberculosis meningococcal and pneumococcal vaccines adenovirus HIV chicken pox cytomegalovirus dengue feline leukemia fowl plague HSV 1 and HSV 2 hog cholera Japanese encephalitis respiratory syncytial virus rotavirus papilloma virus yellow fever and Alzheimer s Disease.

A compound of the invention may also be helpful in individuals having compromised immune function. For example a compound of the invention may be used for treating or preventing the opportunistic infections and tumors that occur after suppression of cell mediated immunity in for example transplant patients cancer patients and HIV patients.

Such combination treatment may involve in addition to a compound of the invention conventional surgery or radiotherapy or chemotherapy. Such chemotherapy may include one or more of the following categories of anti tumor agents i antiproliferative anti neoplastic drugs and combinations thereof ii cytostatic agents iii agents which inhibit cancer cell invasion iv inhibitors of growth factor function v antiangiogenic agents vi vascular damaging agents vii antisense therapies viii gene therapy approaches ix interferon and x immunotherapy approaches.

Therapeutic agents for treating or preventing respiratory diseases which may be administered in combination with a compound of the invention in a subject method include but are not limited to beta adrenergics which include bronchodilators including albuterol isoproterenol sulfate metaproterenol sulfate terbutaline sulfate pirbuterol acetate and sahneterol formotorol steroids including beclomethasone dipropionate flunisolide fluticasone budesonide and triamcinolone acetonide. Anti inflammatory drugs used in connection with the treatment or preventing of respiratory diseases include steroids such as beclomethasone dipropionate triamcinolone acetonide flunisolide and fluticasone. Other anti inflammatory drugs include cromoglycates such as cromolyn sodium. Other respiratory drugs which would qualify as bronchodilators include anticholenergics including ipratropium bromide. Anti histamines include but are not limited to diphenhydramine carbinoxamine clemastine dimenhydrinate pryilamine tripelennamine chlorpheniramine brompheniramine hydroxyzine cyclizine meclizine chlorcyclizine promethazine doxylamine loratadine and terfenadine. Particular anti histamines include rhinolast Astelin claratyne Claritin claratyne D Claritin D telfast Allegra Zyrtec and beconase.

In some embodiments a compound of the invention is administered as a combination therapy with interferon gamma IFN gamma a corticosteroid such as prednisone prednisolone methyl prednisolone hydrocortisone cortisone dexamethasone betamethasone etc. or a combination thereof for the treatment or preventing of interstitial lung disease e.g. idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

In some embodiments a compound of the invention is administered in combination therapy with a known therapeutic agent used in the treatment of cystic fibrosis CF . Therapeutic agents used in the treatment of CF include but are not limited to antibiotics anti inflammatory agents DNAse e.g. recombinant human DNAse pulmozyme dornase alfa mucolytic agents e.g. N acetylcysteine Mucomyst Mucosil decongestants bronchodilators e.g. theophylline ipratropium bromide and the like.

In some embodiments a compound of the invention is administered prophylactically for the prevention of cardiovascular disease e.g. atherosclerosis.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment or prevention of the diseases described above is provided.

In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a composition of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a kit for treating or preventing a TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated disorder. In another embodiment the invention provides a kit for a condition or disorder treatable by selective modulation of the immune system in a subject. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container holds a compound of the invention or a pharmaceutical formulation thereof in an amount effective for treating or preventing the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating or preventing the condition of choice. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of the invention can be used for example to treat or prevent a disorder treatable by modulation of TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated cellular activities. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat or prevent other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of the invention and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of the invention and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of the invention such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit includes for example a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment the kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of the invention contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound which may be effective in treating or preventing a condition or disorder by selective modulation of TLR7 and or TLR8 mediated cellular activities. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a pharmaceutical formulation of a compound of the invention and a second formulation comprising a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate formulations such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

Activity of the compounds can be assessed according to procedures described in e.g. Gorden et al. 177 pp. 8164 8170 2006 and Zhu et al. vol. 45 11 pp. 3238 3242 2008 .

In order to illustrate the invention the following examples are included. However it is to be understood that these examples do not limit the invention and are only meant to suggest a method of practicing the invention. Persons skilled in the art will recognize that chemical reactions described may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other compounds of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are also deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

In the examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius. Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical Company Lancaster Acros TCI Alfa Aesar or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated.

In the examples described below the term Example refers to Compound . For example Example 113 is directed to Compound 113 and or synthetic procedures relating to Compound 113.

The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heated dried.

Column chromatography was done on a Biotage system or Isolute Flash Si SPE column manufacturer Biotage AB having a silica gel column or on a silica SepPak cartridge Waters . H and F NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian instrument operating at 400 MHz and 376 MHz respectively. H NMR spectra were obtained as CDClor d DMSO solutions reported in ppm using chloroform 7.26 ppm or tetramethylsilane 0 ppm as the reference standards. When peak multiplicities are reported the following abbreviations are used s singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet br broadened dd doublet of doublets dt double of triplets m multiplet .

In a three necked flask provided with a mechanical stirrer dropping funnel and thermometer surrounded by an ice salt bath are placed 400 mL of acetic anhydride and 50 g 0.23 mole of 4 bromo 1 methyl 2 nitrobenzene. To this solution is added slowly with stirring 54 mL of concentrated sulfuric acid. When the mixture has cooled to 0 C. a solution of 64 g of chromium trioxide in 360 mL of acetic anhydride is added slowly with stirring at such a rate that the temperature does not exceed 10 and stirring is continued for 2 hours at 5 10 C. in an ice water bath after the addition is complete. The contents of the flask are poured into the mixture of ice and water. The solid was filtered and washed with water until the washings are colorless. The product is suspended in 300 mL of 2 aqueous sodium carbonate solution and stirred. After thorough mixing the solid was filtered and washed with water and dried.

A suspension of the diacetate in a mixture of 272 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid 250 ml of water and 80 mL of ethanol was stirred and refluxed for 45 minutes. The mixture was then cooled to RT and the solid was filtered and washed with water. The crude product is purified by column 22 g 42 .

A mixture of the aldehyde 0.73 g 3.17 mmol and the ylide 1.42 g 3.65 mmol in toluene 8 mL was gently refluxed for 2.5 hrs. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was used directly without further purification.

To a solution of the crude nitrile in AcOH 25 ml was added iron 1.15 g 20.61 mmol at room temperature. The resulting mixture was heated at 85 C. for 4 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with CHCl 8 mL . The resulting mixture was filtered the solids were washed with CHCl. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give viscous oil. To the crude material was added CHCl 8 mL . aq. NaCOfollowed by water was slowly added with stirring until its pH 9 10. The mixture was filtered off and washed with CHCl. The organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. The organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography to afford 0.329 g 33 for two steps of the desired product was obtained based on H NMR.

To the benzazepine 2.34 g 7.57 mmol in DCM 25 mL was added BocO 2.06 g 9.46 mmol at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 20 hrs. The resulting mixture was consecutively washed with saturated aq. NaHCOand brine. The organic layer was separated and dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography 10 EtOAc in hexanes to afford 1.64 g 52.9 of the desired product.

tert Butyl 4 aminomethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 0.611 g 2.851 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 0.479 g 3.706 mmol were dissolved in 30 mls of dry dichloromethane. To this mixture was added benzyl chloroformate 0.552 g 3.136 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The mixture was then diluted with 50 mls of dichloromethane washed once with 1N aqueous HCl one with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to 950 mgs 96 of the title compound and used directly without further purification.

tert Butyl 4 benzyloxycarbonylamino methyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 0.950 g 2.726 mmol was dissolved in dry DMF 25 mls . To this was added sodium hydride 0.164 g 4.090 mmole 60 dispersion in mineral oil and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. Propyl iodide 0.695 g 4.090 mmole was then added and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 16 hours then diluted with brine 200 mls extracted twice with EtOAc extracts washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting oil was purified by flash chromatography 100 g Biotage Snap cartridge 30 EtOAc Hexanes to give 0.280 g 26 of the title compound.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 benzyloxycarbonyl propyl amino methyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 0.280 g 0.717 mmol in 7 mls of methanol was added palladium II hydroxide 0.200 g 20 wt Pd OH on carbon Degussa type . This mixture was hydrogenated under a balloon of hydrogen for 1.5 hours then filtered through GF F filter paper and the filtrate concentrated. Obtained 0.169 g 92 of the title compound and used directly without further purification.

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid and tert butyl 4 propylamino methyl piperidine 1 carboxylate. Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate A mixture of 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid 200 mg 0.42 mmol HOBt 114 mg 0.84 mmol and EDCI 161 mg 0.84 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred for 1 h at room temperature. To this mixture was added triethylamine 0.12 mL 0.84 mmol and propan 1 amine 0.043 mL 0.53 mmol at room temperature. The resulting solution was stirred for additional 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 5 mL and washed with saturated aq NHCl. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 5 mL saturated aq NaHCO 5 mL and brine 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide To a solution of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 450 mg 0.87 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was added 2 2 2 trifluoroacetic acid 1.36 mL 17.4 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was diluted with CHCl 10 mL and saturated aq NaHCO 15 mL again. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 1 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aq NaHCO 2 10 mL and brine 1 10 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material again that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography 1 to 5 MeOH in CHCl gradient . m z APCI pos M 1 514.3.

The following example 116 was prepared by these procedures using 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid and the appropriate amines 2 methyl 1 propylamino propan 2 ol was prepared by the procedure reported in 1939 61 3562 or the hydroxylamine. Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate A mixture of 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid 200 mg 0.42 mmol HOBt 114 mg 0.84 mmol and EDCI 161 mg 0.84 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred for 1 h at room temperature. To this mixture was added triethylamine 0.12 mL 0.84 mmol and propan 1 amine 0.043 mL 0.53 mmol at room temperature. The resulting solution was stirred for additional 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 5 mL and washed with saturated aq NHCl. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 5 mL saturated aq NaHCO 5 mL and brine 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide To a solution of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 450 mg 0.87 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was added 2 2 2 trifluoroacetic acid 1.36 mL 17.4 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was diluted with CHCl 10 mL and saturated aq NaHCO 15 mL again. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 1 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aq NaHCO 2 10 mL and brine 1 10 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material again that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography 1 to 5 MeOH in CHCl gradient .

To a solution of propan 1 ol 6.25 mL 83.2 mmol and 2 6 dimethylpyridine 11.6 mL 99.8 mmol in CHCl 500 mL under a nitrogen atmosphere at 78 C. was added dropwise trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 14.0 mL 83.2 mmol . After stirring for 30 min at 78 C. a solution of O benzylhydroxylamine 10.7 ml 91.5 mmol in CHCl 10 mL was added dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h then warmed to room temperature and stirred for additional 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with ice water 250 mL and the organic layer was separated washed with saturated aq. NaHCO 100 mL and brine 100 mL . The aqueous layers were extracted again with EtOAc 1 200 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography CHCl . To the fraction containing product and 2 6 dimethylpyridine was added 2 M aq KOH 100 mL that was then washed with MTBE. The aqueous layer was then brought to a pH of 5 with 1 M aq HCl and then extracted with MTBE 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 11.2 g 75 of O benzyl N propylhydroxylamine.

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid and O benzyl N propylhydroxylamine. Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate A mixture of 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid 200 mg 0.42 mmol HOBt 114 mg 0.84 mmol and EDCI 161 mg 0.84 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred for 1 h at room temperature. To this mixture was added triethylamine 0.12 mL 0.84 mmol and propan 1 amine 0.043 mL 0.53 mmol at room temperature. The resulting solution was stirred for additional 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 5 mL and washed with saturated aq NHCl. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 5 mL saturated aq NaHCO 5 mL and brine 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide To a solution of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 450 mg 0.87 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was added 2 2 2 trifluoroacetic acid 1.36 mL 17.4 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was diluted with CHCl 10 mL and saturated aq NaHCO 15 mL again. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 1 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aq NaHCO 2 10 mL and brine 1 10 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material again that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography 1 to 5 MeOH in CHCl gradient . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl d 7.67 7.71 m 2H 7.60 7.63 m 2H 7.53 7.55 m 1H 7.29 7.39 m 8H 4.84 s 2H 3.74 3.81 m 2H 3.62 3.71 m 2H 3.48 3.54 m 2H 2.82 s 2H 1.87 2.01 m 4H 1.74 1.84 m 2H 0.96 1.02 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 523.2.

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using 4 benzyloxy 1 methyl 2 nitrobenzene. Preparation of E 1 4 bromo 2 nitrostyryl pyrrolidine A solution of 4 bromo 2 nitrotoluene 100 g 463 mmol pyrrolidine 46.2 mL 565 mmol and N N dimethylformamide dimethylacetal 75.6 mL 565 mmol was refluxed for 4 hours at 110 C. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude E 1 4 bromo 2 nitrostyryl pyrrolidine that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 4 bromo 2 nitrobenzaldehyde To a solution of sodium periodate 298 g 1.40 mol in THF HO 4 L 1 1 at 0 C. was added E 1 4 bromo 2 nitrostyryl pyrrolidine 138 g 464 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 15 h and then filtered to remove solid precipitates. The aqueous layer from the filtrate was separated and extracted with EtOAc 4 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 2 200 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography 5 EtOAc in hexanes . Preparation of E ethyl 2 cyanomethyl 3 3 nitro 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl biphenyl 4 yl acrylate A mixture of 3 nitro 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl biphenyl 4 carbaldehyde 20.0 g 61.7 mmol and cyanomethylcarboethoxyethylidene triphenylphosphorane 26.3 g 67.8 mmol in toluene 200 mL was gently refluxed for 2.5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude E ethyl 2 cyanomethyl 3 3 nitro 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl biphenyl 4 yl acrylate that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 1E 4E ethyl 2 amino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylate To a solution of the crude E ethyl 2 cyanomethyl 3 3 nitro 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl biphenyl 4 yl acrylate in AcOH 650 mL was added iron 29.1 g 521 mmol at room temperature. The resulting mixture was heated at 85 C. for 4 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with CHCl 250 mL . The solids were filtered off and washed with CHCl 200 mL . The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was diluted with CHCl 250 mL again. To this mixture was slowly added saturated aq NaCO 330 mL with vigorous stirring until it became basic pH 9 10 . The resulting mixture was filtered off and washed with CHCl 250 mL . The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSO and filtered to give the crude material that was diluted with EtOAc 70 mL . The mixture was kept for 16 h at room temperature. The suspension was filtered. The solids filtered off were washed with EtOAc 100 mL to give the crude product that was washed with a small amount of CHCl.

To a solution of DL proline 100 g 869 mmol in MeOH 1500 mL was slowly added SOClat 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was dissolved in THF 1700 mL again. To this mixture was added portionwise LiAlH 132 g 3.47 mol at 0 C. The resulting mixture was heated at 60 C. overnight. The excess LiAlHwas quenched with KOH. The reaction mixture was filtered and the solid was washed with MeOH 1000 mL . The combined organic layers were dried filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was purified by distillation to afford 15.8 g 18 of pyrrolidin 2 ylmethanol.

To a solution of pyrrolidin 2 ylmethanol 505 mg 4.99 mmol and TEA 1.0 g 9.9 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was added a solution of BocO 1.31 g 6 mmol in CHCl 10 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 100 mL and extracted with CHCl The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography MeOH CHCl 1 100 to afford 14.2 g 48 of tert butyl 2 hydroxymethyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate. LCMS ESI m z 202 M 1 detected.

To a solution of tert butyl 2 hydroxymethyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 1.0 g 5.0 mmol and TEA 1.0 g 9.9 mmol in CHCl 40 mL was slowly added MsCl 0.63 g 5.5 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min at 20 C. and then water 60 mL was added. The aqueous phase was separated and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude tert butyl 2 methylsulfonyloxy methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate that was used directly without further purification.

A solution of tert butyl 2 methylsulfonyloxy methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 5.0 g 18 mmol and propan 1 amine 20.0 g 339 mmol in toluene 50 mL was heated at 100 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude tert butyl 2 propylamino methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate that was used directly without further purification. LCMS ESI m z 243 M 1 detected.

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid and tert butyl 2 propylamino methyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate. Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate A mixture of 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid 200 mg 0.42 mmol HOBt 114 mg 0.84 mmol and EDCI 161 mg 0.84 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred for 1 h at room temperature. To this mixture was added triethylamine 0.12 mL 0.84 mmol and propan 1 amine 0.043 mL 0.53 mmol at room temperature. The resulting solution was stirred for additional 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 5 mL and washed with saturated aq NHCl. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 5 mL saturated aq NaHCO 5 mL and brine 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N 2 amino 2 oxoethyl N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide A solution of the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 2 amino 2 oxoethyl propyl carbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate in anhydrous CHCl 15 mL was bubbled with HCl gas for 4 h at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred until the reaction was complete. To this mixture was added saturated NaHCOat 0 C. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude compound that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography MeOH CHCl 1 50 .

In this case the product was obtained as HCl salt. MS APCI m z 536 M 1 detected 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl d 7.80 s 1H 7.62 7.66 m 4H 7.52 d 1H 7.42 d 1H 6.97 s 1H 4.31 br s 1H 4.08 br s 1H 3.86 br s 1H 3.68 t 2H 3.48 br s 5H 3.32 m 3H 2.17 br s 2H 1.92 1.99 m 8H 0.87 t 3H .

MS APCI m z 538 M 1 detected H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.65 d 2H 7.59 d 2H 7.45 s 1H 7.32 d 1H 7.28 d 1H 6.80 s 1H 3.66 t 2H 3.55 t 2H 3.49 t 2H 3.42 br s 2H 3.14 br s 2H 2.80 s 2H 2.14 br s 2H 1.87 1.99 m 4H 1.59 1.64 m 2H 0.87 t 3H .

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate and 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy methyl phenylboronic acid. Preparation of 3 nitro 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl biphenyl 4 carbaldehyde except in this case CsCOas a base was used To a solution of 4 bromo 2 nitrobenzaldehyde 20.2 g 87.9 mmol 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenylboronic acid 21.2 g 96.7 mmol and Pd PPh 508 mg 0.440 mmol in toluene 200 mL was added EtOH 40 mL followed by NaCO 70.0 mL 140 mmol 2 M aq solution at room temperature. The resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 300 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 500 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was combined with another batch of the crude material obtained from an additional run in the same reaction scale. The combined crude material was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography CHClto 1 MeOH in CHCl to afford 51 g 90 of 3 nitro 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl biphenyl 4 carbaldehyde. Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 8 4 R 3 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate To a solution of tert butyl 1E 4E 8 4 R 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 225 mg 0.327 mmol in THF 4 mL at 0 C. was added a solution of TBAF 0.34 mL 0.34 mmol 1 M solution in THF . The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 1.5 hr. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with brine 2 . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 8 4 R 3 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N 2 amino 2 oxoethyl N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide A solution of the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 2 amino 2 oxoethyl propyl carbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate in anhydrous CHCl 15 mL was bubbled with HCl gas for 4 h at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred until the reaction was complete. To this mixture was added saturated NaHCOat 0 C. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude compound that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography MeOH CHCl 1 50 .

MS APCI m z 393 M 1 detected H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.77 d 1H 8.55 d 1H 7.95 s 1H 7.41 d 1H 7.36 d 1H 7.25 7.28 m 1H 6.82 s 1H 4.80 s 2H 3.47 br s 4H 2.80 s 2H 1.63 1.72 m 4H 0.94 t 6H .

To a solution of 4 allylmorpholine 2.54 g 20 mmol in THF 40 mL was added 9 BBN 2.44 g 10 mmol . The reaction mixture was refluxed until the reaction was complete. After cooling to room temperature the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude 4 3 9 borabicyclo 3.3.1 nonan 9 yl propyl morpholine that was used directly without further purification. LCMS ESI m z 250 M 1 detected.

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate and 4 3 9 borabicyclo 3.3.1 nonan 9 yl propyl morpholine. Preparation of 3 nitro 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl biphenyl 4 carbaldehyde except in this case a co solvent of EtOH toluene water 2 1 1 and CsCOas a base were used To a solution of 4 bromo 2 nitrobenzaldehyde 20.2 g 87.9 mmol 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenylboronic acid 21.2 g 96.7 mmol and Pd PPh 508 mg 0.440 mmol in toluene 200 mL was added EtOH 40 mL followed by NaCO 70.0 mL 140 mmol 2 M aq solution at room temperature. The resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 300 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 500 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was combined with another batch of the crude material obtained from an additional run in the same reaction scale. The combined crude material was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography CHClto 1 MeOH in CHCl . Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N 2 amino 2 oxoethyl N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide A solution of the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 2 amino 2 oxoethyl propyl carbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate in anhydrous CHCl 15 mL was bubbled with HCl gas for 4 h at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred until the reaction was complete. To this mixture was added saturated NaHCOat 0 C. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude compound that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography MeOH CHCl 1 50 .

MS APCI m z 413 M 1 detected H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.20 d 1H 7.07 br s 1H 6.90 dd 1H 6.78 s 1H 3.72 t 4H 3.45 br s 4H 2.76 s 2H 2.67 t 2H 2.43 br s 4H 2.38 t 2H 1.81 1.89 m 2H 1.60 1.70 m 4H 0.92 t 6H .

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using 1E 4E ethyl 2 amino 8 benzyloxy 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylate and dipropylamine. Preparation of 1E 4E ethyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylate To a mixture of 1E 4E ethyl 2 amino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylate 9.60 g 23.8 mmol in CHCl 100 mL was added BocO 5.97 mg 27.4 mmol at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 days. The resulting mixture was washed with saturated aq NaHCOand brine. The organic layer was separated and dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 12.7 g of the crude 1E 4E ethyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylate that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid To a solution of 1E 4E ethyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylate 12.0 g 23.8 mmol in THF EtOH 60 mL 60 mL was added 4 N aq. LiOH 23.8 mL 95.3 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 21 h. Additional 6 mL of 4 N aq LiOH was added twice after 21 h and 24 h. After stirring for additional 6 h the resulting mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was diluted with water 50 mL and acidified to a pH of 3.5 with 1 N aq phosphoric acid 450 mL . 250 mL of CHClwas added during acidification to extract the crude product out of the sticky suspension. The solids formed during acidification were filtered off using a glass filter packed with Celite. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 3 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressures to give the crude 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate A mixture of 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid 200 mg 0.42 mmol HOBt 114 mg 0.84 mmol and EDCI 161 mg 0.84 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred for 1 h at room temperature. To this mixture was added triethylamine 0.12 mL 0.84 mmol and propan 1 amine 0.043 mL 0.53 mmol at room temperature. The resulting solution was stirred for additional 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 5 mL and washed with saturated aq NHCl. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 5 mL saturated aq NaHCO 5 mL and brine 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N 2 amino 2 oxoethyl N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide A solution of the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 2 amino 2 oxoethyl propyl carbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate in anhydrous CHCl 15 mL was bubbled with HCl gas for 4 h at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred until the reaction was complete. To this mixture was added saturated NaHCOat 0 C. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude compound that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography MeOH CHCl 1 50 .

MS APCI m z 392 M 1 detected H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.44 7.46 m 2H 7.37 7.41 m 2H 7.31 7.34 m 1H 7.19 d 1H 6.83 d 1H 6.73 6.76 m 2H 5.10 s 2H 3.45 br s 4H 2.77 s 2H 1.60 1.70 m 4H 0.92 t 6H .

 33 was prepared as follows substituting benzyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. m z APCI pos M 1 510.3.

 28 was prepared as follows substituting benzyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate for benzyl 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate. Benzyl 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.025 g 0.0504 mmol was suspended in 1 ml of methanol and 25 mgs of 10 Pd C Degussa type was added and the mixture was hydrogenated under a balloon of hydrogen for one hour. This mixture was then filtered through GF F filter paper and the filtrate was concentrated. m z APCI pos M 1 420.2.

 0.18 mgs 0.67 mmol was dissolved in dry THF 7 mls . To this solution was added ethanol 0.037 mls 0.81 mmol and resin bound triphenylphosphine 0.93 g 2.014 mmol 2.16 mmol g . This mixture was gently stirred at room temperature for 20 minutes. Diisopropylazidodicarboxylate 0.34 mls 1.68 mmol was then added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for one hour then filtered and the resin rinsed several times with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated and the resulting material was purified by Flash 40 Biotage 40M cartridge 30 EtOAc Hexanes to give 137 mgs 70 of ethyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate as an orange oil.

 20 was prepared as follows substituting ethyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.59 7.65 m 2H 7.48 7.53 m 1H 7.30 7.39 m 4H 6.84 s 1H 5.50 very broad s 1H 4.14 4.23 m 2H 3.66 s 2H 3.38 3.52 m 4H 2.86 m 2H 1.59 1.72 m 4H 1.22 1.32 m 3H 0.88 0.97 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 448.2.

 24 was prepared according to Example 192 Step A described above substituting 3 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid for 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetic acid.

 27 was prepared as follows substituting ethyl 3 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl propanoate for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.57 7.60 m 2H 7.49 7.51 m 1H 7.25 7.35 m 4H 6.84 s 1H 5.22 very broad singlet 1H 4.11 4.17 m 2H 3.41 3.51 m 4H 2.95 3.04 m 2H 2.83 s 2H 2.64 2.69 m 2H 1.58 1.72 m 4H 1.20 1.30 m 3H 0.88 0.99 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 462.3.

 36 was prepared as follows substituting 4 benzyloxy phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. m z APCI pos M 1 468.2.

 0.100 g 0.214 mmol di tert butyl dicarbonate 0.117 g 0.535 mmol and dimethylaminopyridine 0.026 g 0.214 mmol were combined in 3 mls of dry dichloromethane and stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The mixture was then place directly on a Flash 40 Biotage column 40M 3 1 Hexane EtOAc to give 0.056 g 40 of product. m z APCI pos M 1 667.9.

The product from Step B 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 1 ml of EtOAc and 0.050 g of 10 Pd C were added. The mixture was hydrogenated under a balloon of hydrogen for 1 hour. Another 0.050 g of catalyst were added and the mixture hydrogenated for an additional 1.5 hours then filtered through GF F paper. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give 37 mgs 87 of product. m z APCI pos M 1 577.9.

The product from Step C 0.030 g 0.519 mmol was dissolved in 1 ml of dry DMF. To this was added cesium carbonate 0.051 g 0.156 mmol and benzyl 2 bromoacetate 0.012 mls 0.078 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed several times with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was then dissolved in 1 ml of dichloromethane and 1 ml of TFA was then added. After 1 hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue neutralized with concentrated ammonium hydroxide and water extracted with dichloromethane extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded 0.015 g 55 of benzyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenoxy acetate. m z APCI pos M 1 526.2.

 46 was prepared as follows substituting benzyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenoxy acetate for benzyl 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate. Benzyl 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.025 g 0.0504 mmol was suspended in 1 ml of methanol and 25 mgs of 10 Pd C Degussa type was added and the mixture was hydrogenated under a balloon of hydrogen for one hour. This mixture was then filtered through GF F filter paper and the filtrate was concentrated. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.48 7.56 m 2H 7.33 7.42 m 1H 7.21 7.30 m 3H 6.93 7.00 m 3H 6.77 s 1H 4.43 s 2H 2.87 s 2H 1.45 1.61 m 4H 0.74 0.92 m 6H m z APCI neg M 1 434.0.

 21 was prepared as follows substituting ethyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenoxy acetate for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.58 7.63 m 2H 7.33 7.37 m 1H 7.19 7.26 m 2H 6.98 7.03 m 2H 6.75 s 1H 4.82 s 2H 4.15 4.22 m 2H 3.25 3.34 m 4H 2.76 s 2H 1.50 1.61 m 4H 1.19 1.26 m 3H 0.73 0.90 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 464.3.

was prepared as follows substituting 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl isobenzofuran 1 3H one for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.96 8.00 m 1H 7.78 7.82 m 1H 7.72 7.74 m 1H 7.52 7.55 m 1H 7.38 7.42 m 1H 7.30 7.35 m 1H 6.85 s 1H 5.37 s 2H 3.60 3.71 m 2H 3.39 3.53 m 4H 2.85 m 2H 1.59 1.75 m 4H 0.90 0.99 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 418.2.

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using 1E 4E ethyl 8 bromo 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylate and 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy methyl phenylboronic acid. Preparation of 3 nitro 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl biphenyl 4 carbaldehyde except in this case CsCOwas used To a solution of 4 bromo 2 nitrobenzaldehyde 20.2 g 87.9 mmol 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenylboronic acid 21.2 g 96.7 mmol and Pd PPh 508 mg 0.440 mmol in toluene 200 mL was added EtOH 40 mL followed by NaCO 70.0 mL 140 mmol 2 M aq solution at room temperature. The resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 300 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 500 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was combined with another batch of the crude material obtained from an additional run in the same reaction scale. The combined crude material was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography CHClto 1 MeOH in CHCl . Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 8 4 R 3 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate To a solution of tert butyl 1E 4E 8 4 R 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 225 mg 0.327 mmol in THF 4 mL at 0 C. was added a solution of TBAF 0.34 mL 0.34 mmol 1 M solution in THF . The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 1.5 hr. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with brine 2 . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 8 4 R 3 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate that was used directly without further purification. Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N 2 amino 2 oxoethyl N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide A solution of the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 2 amino 2 oxoethyl propyl carbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate in anhydrous CHCl 15 mL was bubbled with HCl gas for 4 h at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred until the reaction was complete. To this mixture was added saturated NaHCOat 0 C. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude compound that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography MeOH CHCl 1 50 .

MS APCI m z 338 M 1 detected H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.78 s 1H 8.57 s 1H 7.96 s 1H 7.84 s 1H 7.49 d 1H 7.42 s 1H 7.31 d 1H 4.80 s 2H 4.33 q 2H 3.00 s 2H 1.40 t 3H .

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using 1E 4E ethyl 8 bromo 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylate and 4 3 9 borabicyclo 3.3.1 nonan 9 yl propyl morpholine. Preparation of 3 nitro 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl biphenyl 4 carbaldehyde except in this case a co solvent of EtOH toluene water 2 1 1 and CsCOwere used To a solution of 4 bromo 2 nitrobenzaldehyde 20.2 g 87.9 mmol 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenylboronic acid 21.2 g 96.7 mmol and Pd PPh 508 mg 0.440 mmol in toluene 200 mL was added EtOH 40 mL followed by NaCO 70.0 mL 140 mmol 2 M aq solution at room temperature. The resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 300 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 500 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was combined with another batch of the crude material obtained from an additional run in the same reaction scale. The combined crude material was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography CHClto 1 MeOH in CHCl . Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N 2 amino 2 oxoethyl N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide A solution of the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 2 amino 2 oxoethyl propyl carbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate in anhydrous CHCl 15 mL was bubbled with HCl gas for 4 h at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred until the reaction was complete. To this mixture was added saturated NaHCOat 0 C. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude compound that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography MeOH CHCl 1 50 .

MS APCI m z 358 M 1 detected H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.78 s 1H 7.30 d 1H 7.06 s 1H 6.92 d 1H 4.30 q 2H 3.72 t 4H 2.94 s 2H 2.67 t 2H 2.43 br s 4H 2.38 t 2H 1.81 1.89 m 2H 1.37 t 3H .

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl benzoic acid and benzyl 4 aminobutanoate 4 methylbenzenesulfonate. Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate A mixture of 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxylic acid 200 mg 0.42 mmol HOBt 114 mg 0.84 mmol and EDCI 161 mg 0.84 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred for 1 h at room temperature. To this mixture was added triethylamine 0.12 mL 0.84 mmol and propan 1 amine 0.043 mL 0.53 mmol at room temperature. The resulting solution was stirred for additional 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 5 mL and washed with saturated aq NHCl. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 5 mL saturated aq NaHCO 5 mL and brine 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate that was used directly without further purification. MS APCI m z 424 M 1 detected.

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate and benzyl 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl benzamido butanoate. Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 8 4 dimethylcarbamoyl phenyl 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate except in this case a co solvent of MeCN water 1.5 1 was used To NaCO 129 mg 1.214 mmol in a 50 mL round bottom flask was added water 3.7 mL was bubbled with Nfor 10 min. To this mixture was added tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 200 mg 0.40 mmol in EtOH 4.9 mL at room temperature. The resulting mixture was bubbled with Nfor 10 min. Pd OAc 9.3 mg 0.040 mmol and 4 4 phenylphosphinidene bisbenzenesulfonic acid dipotassium hydrate 45 mg 0.081 mmol were added. The resulting mixture was warmed to 65 C. with Nbubbling. To this mixture was added a solution of 4 dimethylcarbamoyl phenylboronic acid 97 mg 0.49 mmol in EtOH 0.6 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was diluted with water 5 mL and EtOAc 10 mL . The mixture was filtered through GF F filter. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography CHClto 2 MeOH in CHCl . Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide To a solution of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 450 mg 0.87 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was added 2 2 2 trifluoroacetic acid 1.36 mL 17.4 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was diluted with CHCl 10 mL and saturated aq NaHCO 15 mL again. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 1 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aq NaHCO 2 10 mL and brine 1 10 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material again that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography 1 to 5 MeOH in CHCl gradient .

MS APCI m z 581 M 1 detected H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.82 7.84 m 2H 7.70 7.72 m 2H 7.51 d 1H 7.30 7.38 m 7H 6.83 s 1H 6.53 t 1H 5.13 s 2H 3.54 q 2H 3.47 br s 4H 2.81 s 2H 2.52 t 2H 1.98 2.04 m 2H 1.62 1.72 m 4H 0.93 t 6H .

To 2 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetic acid 0.50 g 1.91 mmol in 20 mls of dry DMF was added cesium carbonate 1.24 g 3.82 mmole and iodoethane 0.20 mls 2.48 mmol . This mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours then diluted with brine extracted twice with EtOAc extracts washed with brine 2 dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 360 mgs 65 of ethyl 2 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate as a clear oil.

was prepared as follows substituting ethyl 2 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.49 7.60 m 3H 7.26 7.42 m 4H 6.83 s 1H 5.20 br s 1H 4.12 4.21 m 2H 3.67 s 2H 3.42 3.52 m 4H 2.83 s 2H 1.56 1.74 m 4H 1.23 1.30 m 3H 0.90 0.97 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 448.3.

was prepared as follows substituting 4 2 methoxy 2 oxoethyl phenylboronic acid for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 44 was prepared as follows substituting tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH was used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.59 7.66 m 2H 7.48 7.51 m 1H 7.28 7.39 m 4H 6.87 s 1H 3.72 s 3H 3.57 3.70 m 6H 3.45 3.53 m 2H 2.83 s 2H 1.79 1.88 m 2H 1.65 1.75 m 2H 0.90 0.96 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 450.2.

 40 was prepared as follows substituting 4 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl phenylboronic acid for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 44 was prepared as follows substituting tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH was used. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.60 7.68 m 2H 7.20 7.41 m 5H 6.73 6.85 m 3H 4.42 4.52 m 1H 4.05 4.16 m 2H 3.71 s 2H 3.24 3.52 m 6H partially obscured by water peak 2.75 s 2H 1.66 1.78 m 2H 1.50 1.65 m 2H 1.15 1.23 m 3H 0.75 0.92 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 464.2.

 59 was prepared according to Example 192 Step A described above substituting 2 propanol for ethanol.

 42 was prepared as follows substituting isopropyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 44 was prepared as follows substituting tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH was used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.58 7.64 m 2H 7.48 7.52 m 1H 7.31 7.39 m 4H 6.88 s 1H 5.00 5.08 m 1H 3.58 3.69 m 6H 3.44 3.51 m 2H 2.85 m 2H 1.79 1.88 m 2H 1.65 1.75 m 2H 1.23 1.28 m 6H 0.90 0.97 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 478.3.

 54 was prepared according to Example 192 Step A described above substituting 2 methylpropan 1 ol for ethanol.

 40 was prepared as follows substituting isobutyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 44 was prepared as follows substituting tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH was used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.59 7.65 m 2H 7.48 7.51 m 1H 7.29 7.39 m 4H 6.87 s 1H 5.08 br s 1H 3.87 3.92 m 2H 3.58 3.71 m 6H 3.45 3.52 m 2H 2.82 s 2H 1.78 1.99 m 3H 1.64 1.77 m 2H 0.87 0.97 m 9H m z APCI pos M 1 492.2.

 47 was prepared according to Example 192 Step A described above substituting cyclopropylmethanol for ethanol.

 31 was prepared as follows substituting cyclopropylmethyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 44 was prepared as follows substituting tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH was used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.59 7.65 m 2H 7.47 7.51 m 1H 7.28 7.40 m 4H 6.88 s 1H 5.18 br s 1H 3.92 3.99 m 2H 3.58 3.72 m 6H 3.43 3.53 m 2H 2.83 s 2H 1.79 1.88 m 2H 1.65 1.77 m 2H 1.08 1.20 m 1H 0.90 0.98 m 3H 0.53 0.60 m 2H 0.24 0.31 m 2H m z APCI pos M 1 490.2.

 31 was prepared as follows substituting benzyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 44 was prepared as follows substituting tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH was used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.59 7.64 m 2H 7.49 7.51 m 1H 7.29 7.39 m 9H 6.88 s 1H 5.16 s 2H 3.70 s 2H 3.58 3.69 m 4H 3.45 3.52 m 2H 2.84 s 2H 1.79 1.88 m 2H 1.66 1.77 m 2H 0.90 0.97 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 526.2.

 67 was prepared according to Example 192 Step A described above substituting 3 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid for 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetic acid and 2 methylpropan 1 ol for ethanol.

 31 was prepared as follows substituting isobutyl 3 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl propanoate for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 44 was prepared as follows substituting tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH was used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.56 7.60 m 2H 7.47 7.50 m 1H 7.26 7.36 m 4H 6.87 s 1H 5.08 br s 2H 3.85 3.89 m 2H 3.58 3.69 m 5H 3.45 3.52 m 2H 2.97 3.03 m 2H 2.82 s 2H 2.65 2.71 m 2H 1.79 1.95 m 3H 1.66 1.76 m 2H 0.88 0.97 m 9H m z APCI pos M 1 506.3.

 57 was prepared according to Example 224 225 Step C described below substituting 5 bromoisobenzofuran 1 3H one for 4 4 bromophenyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 one.

 33 was prepared as follows substituting 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl isobenzofuran 1 3H one for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 44 was prepared as follows substituting tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH was used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.95 8.00 m 1H 7.78 7.82 m 1H 7.70 7.73 m 1H 7.50 7.53 m 1H 7.37 7.42 m 1H 7.28 7.33 m 1H 6.89 s 1H 5.37 s 2H 5.12 br s 1H 3.58 3.71 m 4H 3.43 3.55 m 3H 2.82 m 2H 1.79 1.88 m 2H 1.64 1.77 m 2H 0.90 0.99 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 434.2.

 67 was prepared according to Example 224 225 Step C described below substituting 6 bromoisobenzofuran 1 3H one for 4 4 bromophenyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 one.

 36 was prepared as follows substituting 6 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl isobenzofuran 1 3H one for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 44 was prepared as follows substituting tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH was used. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.08 8.13 m 1H 8.03 8.06 m 1H 7.74 7.78 m 1H 7.41 7.45 m 1H 7.32 7.36 m 2H 6.91 br s 2H 6.80 s 1H 5.47 s 2H 4.45 4.50 m 1H 53.37 3.48 m 2H 3.28 3.37 m 4H obscured by water peak 2.75 s 2H 1.66 1.77 m 2H 1.51 1.62 m 2H 0.72 0.91 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 434.2.

4 Bromophenylacetic acid 1.00 g 4.65 mmol was dissolved in 45 mls of dry THF and chilled to 78 C. To this was added LDA 9.30 mls 18.6 mmol 2M in THF heptane resulting in a dark color and this mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 20 minutes. 2 bromoethoxy tert butyl dimethylsilane 1.20 mls 5.58 mmol was then added via syringe and then the cooling bath was removed to allowed the reaction to warm to room temperature. Upon warming the mixture became an amber color. Once at room temperature 50 mls of 1N aqueous HCl were then added and the mixture was vigorously stirred for 16 hours then extracted with EtOAc 2 extracts washed with 2M aqueous sodium carbonate dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to an orange oil. Flash 40 Biotage 40M cartridge 3 1 Hexane EtOAc afforded 211 mgs 19 of 3 4 bromophenyl dihydrofuran 2 3H one as an orange oil.

 9 was prepared as follows substituting 3 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl dihydrofuran 2 3H one for 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.64 7.68 m 2H 7.51 7.54 m 1H 7.32 7.39 m 4H 6.84 s 1H 4.48 4.55 m 1H 4.33 4.42 m 1H 3.83 3.90 m 1H 3.41 3.50 m 4H 2.89 s 2H 2.70 2.81 m 1H 2.44 2.56 m 1H 1.59 1.72 m 4H 0.88 0.98 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 446.2.

4 Bromostyrene 1.00 g 5.46 mmol was dissolved in 25 mls of 2 1 water acetone. To this was added 4 methylmorpholine N oxide 0.704 g 6.01 mmole and osmium tetroxide 0.167 g 0.061 mmole 2.5 in t BuOH . This mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours then diluted with EtOAc washed once with 1N aq. HCl once with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting crude product was purified by Flash 40 Biotage 40M cartridge 100 EtOAc as the eluant to give 335 mgs 28 of 1 4 bromophenyl ethane 1 2 diol as a white solid.

1 4 bromophenyl ethane 1 2 diol 0.15 g 0.69 mmol was dissolved in 7 mls of dry acetonitrile followed by the addition of carbonyldiimidazole 0.17 g 1.04 mmol . This mixture was warmed to 40 C. for 1.5 hours. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with saturated ammonium chloride solution water dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. 10 g Sep Pak purification 1 1 EtOAc Hexanes afforded 0.095 g of 4 4 bromophenyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 one 57 as a white solid.

4 4 Bromophenyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 one 0.093 g 0.383 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 0.117 g 0.459 mmol potassium acetate 0.113 g 1.15 mmol and dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloromethane adduct 0.0094 g 0.012 mmol were combined in dioxane and warmed to 100 C. for 3 hours. The mixture was then diluted with water extracted twice with EtOAc extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. 10 g Sep Pak purification 100 DCM as the eluant afforded 0.070 g of 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 one 63 as a white solid.

Reaction of 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide and 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 one as follows yielded 1E 4E 2 amino 8 4 2 oxo 1 3 dioxolan 4 yl phenyl N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 9 . 1E 4E 2 amino 8 bromo N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 75.0 mgs 0.206 mmol 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 55.6 mgs 0.309 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 23.8 mgs 0.021 mmol 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.618 mmol were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM was then used. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.74 7.80 m 2H 7.55 7.60 m 2H 7.26 7.42 m 3H 6.78 s 1H 5.89 5.96 m 1H 4.88 4.95 m 1H 4.45 4.52 m 1H 2.78 s 2H 1.50 1.63 m 4H 0.71 0.93 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 448.2. 1E 4E 2 amino 8 4 1 2 dihydroxyethyl phenyl N N dipropyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide 19 was obtained as the more polar product. 19 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.59 7.64 m 2H 7.39 7.44 m 2H 7.33 7.38 m 1H 7.26 7.28 m 1H 7.20 7.24 m 1H 6.84 br s 1H 6.74 s 1H 5.23 5.27 m 1H 4.71 4.75 m 1H 4.54 4.62 m 1H 3.44 3.50 m 2H 3.28 3.35 m 4H 2.74 s 2H 1.51 1.61 m 4H 0.73 0.90 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 422.2.

The title compound was prepared by these procedures using tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate and 4 hydroxyphenylboronic acid. Preparation of tert butyl 1E 4E 8 4 dimethylcarbamoyl phenyl 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate To NaCO 129 mg 1.214 mmol in a 50 mL round bottom flask was added water 3.7 mL was bubbled with Nfor 10 min. To this mixture was added tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 200 mg 0.40 mmol in EtOH 4.9 mL at room temperature. The resulting mixture was bubbled with Nfor 10 min. Pd OAc 9.3 mg 0.040 mmol and 4 4 phenylphosphinidene bisbenzenesulfonic acid dipotassium hydrate 45 mg 0.081 mmol were added. The resulting mixture was warmed to 65 C. with Nbubbling. To this mixture was added a solution of 4 dimethylcarbamoyl phenylboronic acid 97 mg 0.49 mmol in EtOH 0.6 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was diluted with water 5 mL and EtOAc 10 mL . The mixture was filtered through GF F filter. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography CHClto 2 MeOH in CHCl . MS APCI m z 478 M 1 detected.

To a solution of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 8 4 hydroxyphenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 699 mg 1.30 mmol and 1 1 1 trifluoro N phenyl N trifluoromethylsulfonyl methanesulfonamide 698 mg 1.95 mmol in CHCl 7 mL was added TEA 0.27 ml 1.95 mmol at room temperature. After stirring for 23 h at room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 25 mL and washed with saturated aq NaHCO 15 mL followed by brine 15 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography 10 to 30 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to afford 526 mg 66 of 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl trifluoromethanesulfonate. MS APCI m z 610 M 1 detected.

The title compound was prepared by these procedures. Preparation of 1E 4E 2 amino N propyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide To a solution of tert butyl 1E 4E 4 propylcarbamoyl 8 4 pyrrolidine 1 carbonyl phenyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 450 mg 0.87 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was added 2 2 2 trifluoroacetic acid 1.36 mL 17.4 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material that was diluted with CHCl 10 mL and saturated aq NaHCO 15 mL again. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 1 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aq NaHCO 2 10 mL and brine 1 10 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude material again that was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography 1 to 5 MeOH in CHCl gradient . MS APCI m z 510 M 1 detected H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.69 7.72 m 2H 7.45 d 1H 7.33 7.37 m 3H 7.24 7.26 m 1H 6.83 s 1H 3.47 br s 4H 2.81 s 2H 1.62 1.72 m 4H 0.94 t 6H F NMR 376 MHz CDCl 73.2.

Propyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate 43 was prepared according to Example 192 Step A substituting propanol for ethanol.

Propyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate 10 was prepared as follows 

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate propyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded propyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate.

Propyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded propyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate. 1H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 7.60 7.68 m 2H 7.20 7.41 m 5H 6.73 6.85 m 3H 4.42 4.52 m 1H 4.05 4.16 m 2H 3.71 s 2H 3.24 3.52 m 6H partially obscured by water peak 2.75 s 2H 1.66 1.78 m 2H 1.50 1.65 m 2H 1.15 1.23 m 3H 0.75 0.92 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 464.2.

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate butyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded butyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate.

Butyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded butyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.59 7.63 m 2H 7.50 7.51 m 1H 7.34 7.38 m 2H 7.32 7.34 m 2H 6.88 s 2H 4.09 4.14 m 2H 3.58 3.68 m 6H 3.45 3.51 m 2H 2.87 s 2H 1.79 1.88 m 2H 1.57 1.76 m 4H 1.30 1.42 m 2H 0.89 0.96 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 492.2.

2 2 Bromophenyl acetic acid 1.00 g 4.65 mmol was dissolved in 45 mls of dry dichloromethane. To this solution was added oxalyl chloride 0.609 ml 6.98 mmol followed by a drop of DMF. This mixture was stirred for two hours at room temperature then concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was then re dissolved in dry dichloromethane 45 mls and 2 mls of 2 methylpropan 1 ol were then added and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours then concentrated to isobutyl 2 2 bromophenyl acetate 100 .

 49 was prepared according to Example 224 225 Step C substituting isobutyl 2 2 bromophenyl acetate for 4 4 bromophenyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 one.

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate isobutyl 2 2 bromophenyl acetate 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded isobutyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate.

Isobutyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded isobutyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.27 7.39 m 5H 7.19 7.21 m 1H 7.01 7.06 m 1H 6.87 s 1H 3.80 3.85 m 2H 3.58 3.69 m 6H 3.46 3.53 m 2H 2.82 s 2H 1.80 1.89 m 3H 1.66 1.75 m 2H 0.90 0.98 m 3H 0.81 0.87 m 6H m z APCI pos M 1 492.3.

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate cyclobutylmethyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded cyclobutylmethyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate.

Cyclobutylmethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded cyclobutylmethyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.59 7.64 m 2H 7.49 7.51 m 1H 7.29 7.39 m 4H 6.87 s 1H 4.06 4.12 m 2H 3.57 3.70 m 6H 3.44 3.53 m 2H 2.83 s 2H 2.56 2.67 m 1H 1.96 2.07 m 2H 1.66 1.92 m 8H 0.91 0.97 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 504.2.

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 2 fluoroethyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded 2 fluoroethyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate.

2 Fluoroethyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded 0.012 g 35 of 2 fluoroethyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.60 7.65 m 2H 7.49 7.51 m 1H 7.29 7.39 m 4H 6.87 s 1H 4.66 4.69 m 1H 4.54 4.58 m 1H 4.39 4.43 m 1H 4.32 4.36 m 1H 3.73 s 2H 3.58 3.68 m 4H 3.43 3.52 m 2H 1.78 1.87 m 2H 1.65 1.75 m 2H 0.90 0.96 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 482.2.

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 2 dimethylamino ethyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded 2 dimethylamino ethyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate.

2 dimethylamino ethyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded 2 dimethylamino ethyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.59 7.64 m 2H 7.48 7.51 m 1H 7.28 7.38 m 4H 6.87 s 1H 4.19 4.24 m 2H 3.58 3.74 m 6H 3.44 3.52 m 2H 2.84 s 2H 2.54 2.61 m 2H 2.27 s 6H 1.79 1.86 m 2H 1.65 1.76 m 2H 0.89 0.97 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 507.2.

 45 was prepared according to Example 192 Step A substituting 3 dimethylamino propan 1 ol for ethanol.

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 3 dimethylamino propyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded 3 dimethylamino propyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate.

3 dimethylamino propyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded 3 dimethylamino propyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.57 7.65 m 2H 7.46 7.51 m 1H 7.28 7.40 m 4H 6.87 s 2H 4.07 4.21 m 2H 3.56 3.71 m 6H 3.40 3.54 m 2H 2.82 s 2H 2.26 2.36 m 2H 2.20 s 6H 1.59 1.87 m 6H 0.86 0.99 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 521.3.

Isobutyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 2 amino 2 oxoethyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate

 23 was prepared as described below in Steps 1 and 2 except for substituting isobutyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid and tert butyl 1E 4E 4 2 amino 2 oxoethyl propyl carbamoyl 8 bromo 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate for tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate.

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate.

Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded 0.012 g 35 of ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate.

1H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 7.59 7.66 m 2H 7.32 7.38 m 2H 7.22 7.30 m 2H 7.07 7.13 m 1H 3.92 4.00 m 2H 3.83 3.87 m 2H 3.73 s 2H 2.75 s 2H 1.82 1.92 m 1H 1.51 1.61 m 2H 0.84 0.89 m 9H m z APCI pos M 1 491.2.

 0.250 g 0.954 mmol was dissolved in 10 mls of dry THF. To this solution was added Z tert butyl N N diisopropylcarbamimidate 3.82 g 19.08 mmol and the mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 hours. The mixture was then filtered filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by a 50 g Snap cartridge Biotage 10 EtOAc Hexanes to give 280 mgs 92 of tert butyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate as a thick oil.

 32 was prepared as described below in Steps 1 and 2 except for substituting isobutyl tert butyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid and 1E 4E 2 amino N 2 amino 2 oxoethyl 8 bromo N propyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide for tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate.

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate.

Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded 0.012 g 35 of ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate.

1H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 7.50 7.65 m 2H 7.23 7.36 m 5H 7.09 7.14 br s 1H 6.84 6.91 br s 1H 3.92 4.00 br s 2H 3.61 s 2H 3.51 s 1H 2.77 br s 2H 1.51 1.61 m 2H 1.42 s 9H 0.73 0.91 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 491.2.

 19 was prepared according as described below in Steps 1 and 2 except for substituting 2 dimethylamino ethyl 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetate for 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid and 1E 4E 2 amino N 2 amino 2 oxoethyl 8 bromo N propyl 3H benzo b azepine 4 carboxamide for tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate.

tert butyl 1E 4E 8 bromo 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 2 ylcarbamate 4 ethoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 1.5 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2M aqueous potassium carbonate 3 equiv were combined in 2 mls of acetonitrile in a microwave reaction vial. This mixture was heated in a microwave to 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc washed twice with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 7 MeOH DCM afforded ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate.

Ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.050 g 0.075 mmol was dissolved in 2 mls of dichloromethane and 0.5 ml of TFA. After about one hour the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was then re dissolved in dichloromethane and 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide added and the mixture vigorously stirred for 15 minutes. This mixture was then diluted with water extracted with dichloromethane 2 extracts dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Preparative thin layer chromatography 2 0.5 mm plates 10 MeOH DCM 0.5 NHOH afforded 0.012 g 35 of ethyl 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate.

1H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 7.60 7.64 m 2H 7.33 7.37 m 2H 7.26 7.28 m 1H 7.21 7.25 m 1H 7.11 br s 1H 6.75 6.90 br m 3H 4.11 4.16 m 2H 3.96 br s 2H 3.71 s 2H 3.51 s 2H 2.73 s 2H 2.16 s 6H 1.50 1.62 m 2H 0.75 0.91 m 3H m z APCI pos M 1 506.2.

 0.037 g 0.0754 mmol was dissolved in 1 ml of dioxane and chilled to 0 C. HCl gas was bubbled in for 15 minutes reaction vessel sealed tightly and the mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature overnight. The gas pressure was carefully released and the mixture was concentrated to 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 2 amino 2 oxoethyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetic acid hydrochloride 100 . m z APCI pos M 1 435.1.

 8 was prepared as described below in Step 1 except for substituting benzyl 2 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 3 hydroxypropyl propyl carbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl phenyl acetate for benzyl 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate.

Benzyl 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoate 0.025 g 0.0504 mmol was suspended in 1 ml of methanol and 25 mgs of 10 Pd C Degussa type was added and the mixture was hydrogenated under a balloon of hydrogen for one hour. This mixture was then filtered through GF F filter paper and the filtrate was concentrated to 16 mgs of 4 1E 4E 2 amino 4 dipropylcarbamoyl 3H benzo b azepin 8 yl benzoic acid 78 .

The HEK 293 hTLR transfectant assay employs HEK293 cells stably transfected with various hTLRs and transiently co transfected with a plasmid containing an NF B driven secreted embryonic alkaline phosphate SEAP reporter gene. Stimulation of TLRs activates their downstream signaling pathways and induces nuclear translocation of the transcription factor NF B. Reporter gene activity is then measured using a spectrophotometric assay.

To measure agonist activity human embryonic kidney HEK cells which stably express various human TLR genes including TLR7 and TLR8 and a NFkB luciferase reporter gene e.g. 293XL hTLR8 cells available from InvivoGen San Diego Calif. are prepared according to supplier s instructions and incubated with various concentrations of test compound overnight. The amount of induced luciferase is measured by reading the absorbance at 650 mu. Agonist compounds of the invention have an MCof 25 M or less wherein MCis defined as the concentration at which 50 of maximum induction is seen.

Peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs from human blood were isolated using BD Vacutainer Cell Preparation Tubes with sodium citrate. Cells were incubated with compound overnight. TLR8 activity was assayed by measuring the amount of TNF in supernatants by ELISA. TLR7 activity was assayed by measuring the amount of IFN in supernatants by ELISA R D Systems . Compounds of this invention had an MCof 25 000 nM or less wherein MCis the concentration at which 50 of the maximum induction is seen. The results of this assay are shown below in Tables 2 and 3.

MCnumbers are represented as factors of ten for example indicates an MCvalue of X 10 or a value in the tens of thousands of nanomolar nM range indicates an MCvalue of X 10 or a value in the thousands indicates an MCvalue of X 10 or a value in the hundreds and indicates an MCvalue of X 10or 10 or a value in the tens or ones.

The foregoing description is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and process shown as described above. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups thereof.

