---

title: System and method for handset operation in a wireless communication network
abstract: User equipment (UE) is configured to automatically detect the presence of an access point (AP) in any one of a plurality of venues and to transmit identification information to the AP to authenticate the UE. The venue receiving the authentication request transfers the authentication request and identification information to an authentication server to determine whether the US is a registered device. If the US was previously registered, it is automatically authenticated whenever it is carried inside a venue. The plurality of venues may be coupled to a Cloud network with the authentication information stored on the Cloud network. In this manner, whenever the UE enters any of the venues, the UE is automatically authenticated when it comes within range of any AP within any of the venues. The venue may use an application program interface (API) to provide advertising, coupons, web links, images, audio, video, streaming video, and the like to the UE. The venue may direct the UE to a website or provide a link to the website.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485656&OS=09485656&RS=09485656
owner: Mobilitie, LLC
number: 09485656
owner_city: Newport Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150507
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 604 418 filed on Sep. 5 2012 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 398 727 filed on Feb. 16 2012 and a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 363 943 filed on Feb. 1 2012 which are continuations in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 093 998 filed on Apr. 26 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 958 296 filed on Dec. 1 2010 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 616 958 filed on Nov. 12 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 190 119 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 397 225 filed on Mar. 3 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 970 351 the entire disclosures and content of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention is directed generally to wireless communication devices and more particularly to a system and method of handset operation to facilitate communication in dynamically formed short range communication networks.

Wireless communication networks have become commonplace. A vast array of base stations is provided by a number of different wireless service providers. Wireless communication devices such as cell phones personal communication system PCS devices personal digital assistant PDA devices and web enabled wireless devices communicate with the various base stations using one or more known communication protocols. While early cell phone devices were limited to analog operation and voice only communication modern wireless devices use digital signal protocols and have sufficient bandwidth to enable the transfer of voice signals image data and even video streaming. In addition web enabled devices provide network access such as Internet access.

In all cases the individual wireless communication devices communicate with one or more base stations. Even when two wireless communication devices are located a few feet from each other there is no direct communication between the wireless devices. That is the wireless devices communicate with each other via one or more base stations and other elements of the wireless communication network.

Some wireless service providers have included push to talk PTT technology that allows group members to communicate with each other using PTT technology. Thus when one group member presses the PTT button the communication from that individual is automatically transmitted to the communication devices of other group members. While this gives the appearance of direct communication between the wireless devices the communications between group members are also relayed via one or more base stations as part of the wireless network.

Therefore it can be appreciated that there is a need for wireless communication devices that can communicate directly with nearby wireless devices. The present invention provides this and other advantages as will be apparent from the following detailed description and accompanying figures.

The system described herein extends the normal operational features of conventional wireless communication devices. As described above the conventional wireless communication device communicates with a wireless communication network base station using a first transceiver i.e. a network transceiver . The extended capabilities described herein provide a second transceiver device that allows wireless communication devices to communicate directly with each other over a short distance and further describes network management techniques capable of managing a dynamic network that may change quickly.

The wireless communication devices are illustrated as part of a system illustrated in the system architecture in . Portions of the system are conventional wireless network components that will be described briefly herein. The non network communication capability which may be referred to herein as a jump enabled device or a jump device will be described in greater detail below. The term jump refers to the ability of a wireless device designed and operated in accordance with the present teachings to jump from one short range wireless network to another.

A conventional wireless communication network such as a public land mobile network PLMN includes a base station . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the typical wireless communication network will include a large number of base stations . However for the sake of brevity and clarity in understanding the present invention illustrates only a single base station .

The base station is coupled to a base station controller BSC . In turn the BSC is coupled to a gateway . The BSC may also be coupled to a mobile switching center not shown or other conventional wireless communication network element. The gateway provides access to a network . The network may be a private core network of the wireless communication network or may be a wide area public network such as the Internet. In a user computing device is illustrated as coupled to the network .

For the sake of brevity a number of conventional network components of the wireless communication network are omitted. The particular network components may vary depending on the implementation of the wireless communication network e.g. CDMA vs. GSM . However these elements are known in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

Also illustrated in are wireless communication devices . The wireless communication devices are illustrative of many different types of conventional wireless communication devices capable of communicating with the base station or other base stations not shown in the wireless communication network . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the wireless communication network may communicate using a variety of different signaling protocols. For example the system may be successfully implemented using by way of example CDMA WCDMA GSM UMTS 3G 4G LTE and the like. The system is not limited by any specific communication protocol for the wireless communication network .

As illustrated in the wireless communication device communicates with the base station via a wireless network communication link . Similarly the wireless communication device communicates with the base station via a wireless network communication link . Each of the wireless communication devices illustrated in e.g. the wireless communication devices contain a conventional transmitter receiver or transceiver components to permit conventional communication with the wireless communication network via the base station or other base station not shown . Operational details of conventional network communication are known in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

In addition to the conventional network transceiver components the jump enabled wireless communication devices illustrated in e.g. the wireless communication devices also include a short range transceiver to allow direct communication between the devices. This short range communication is accomplished without reliance on the wireless communication network . Indeed as will be described in greater detail below the short range transceivers in the mobile communication devices permit the dynamic formation of a short range communication network that does not rely on the wireless communication network provided by any wireless service provider. Thus wireless communication devices can rely on the conventional wireless communication network for some communications but may also be part of the short range communication network formed between the mobile devices themselves. In the example of the wireless communication device communicates with the base station via the wireless network communication link . Similarly the wireless communication device communicates with the base station via the network wireless communication link . However in addition the wireless communication devices and may communicate directly with each other via a short range communication link .

As illustrated in the wireless communication device is not in communication with the wireless communication network . However the wireless communication device can communicate directly with the wireless communication device via a short range wireless communication link . Also illustrated in are the wireless communication devices . Although neither of these devices is in communication with the wireless communication network the two devices are in direct communication with each other via a short range wireless communication link . Thus jump enabled wireless communication devices must be in proximity with each other but need not be in communication with the wireless communication network or even in an area of wireless coverage provided by the wireless communication network.

The dynamic formation of one or more short range networks allows communication between the wireless communications devices independent of the wireless communication network even if the wireless communication network is present and operational. The short range communication network advantageously allows communication in settings where the wireless communication network is not present or in a situation where the wireless communication network is unavailable. For example the wireless communication network may be unavailable during a power outage or an emergency situation such as a fire civil emergency or the like. In contrast the short range communication network does not rely on any infrastructure such as cell towers base stations and the like. As will be described in greater detail below the short range communication network may be extended as jump enabled wireless communication devices move throughout a geographic location.

The wireless communication device in also contains a memory . In general the memory stores instructions and data to control operation of the CPU . The memory may include random access memory ready only memory programmable memory flash memory and the like. The wireless communication device is not limited by any specific form of hardware used to implement the memory . The memory may also be integrally formed in whole or in part with the CPU .

The wireless communication device of also includes conventional components such as a display and a keypad or keyboard . These are conventional components that operate in a known manner and need not be described in greater detail. Other conventional components found in wireless communication devices such as a USB interface Bluetooth interface camera video device infrared device and the like may also be included in the wireless communication device . For the sake of clarity these conventional elements are not illustrated in the functional block diagram of .

The wireless communication device of also includes a network transmitter such as may be used by the wireless communication device for the conventional wireless communication network with the base station see . also illustrates a network receiver that operates in conjunction with the network transmitter to communicate with the base station . In a typical embodiment the network transmitter and network receiver share circuitry and are implemented as a network transceiver . The network transceiver is connected to an antenna . The network transceiver is illustrated as a generic transceiver. As previously noted the mobile communication devices e.g. the mobile communication devices may be implemented in accordance with any known wireless communication protocol including but not limited to CDMA WCDMA GSM UMTS 3G 4G WiMAX LTE or the like. Operation of the network transceiver and the antenna for communication with the wireless communication network is well known in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

The wireless communication device of also includes a short range transmitter that is used by the wireless communication device for direct communication with other jump enabled wireless communication devices e.g. the wireless communication device of . also illustrates a short range receiver that operates in conjunction with the short range transmitter to communicate directly with other jump enabled wireless communication devices e.g. the wireless communication device of . In a typical embodiment the short range transmitter and short range receiver are implemented as a short range transceiver . The short range transceiver is connected to an antenna . In an exemplary embodiment the antennas and may have common components are implemented as a single antenna.

The data storage area also stores a list of other nearby wireless communication devices that form part of the short range wireless communication network . In addition the data storage area may include an Allowed List and a Blocked List in connection with device authentication. As will be described in greater detail below the Allowed List contains identities of nearby wireless communication devices and wireless hot spots that have been verified while the Blocked List includes a list of nearby wireless communication devices that have been determined not to be authentic or which the user a their own discretion has decided to block.

The various components illustrated in are coupled together by a bus system . The bus system may include an address bus data bus power bus control bus and the like. For the sake of convenience the various busses in are illustrated as the bus system .

As will be discussed in greater detail below the user can download an application programming interface API that will control operation of the wireless communication device and enable the formation of the short range communication network . In addition when the wireless communication device is coupled to a WiFi hotspot such as in a business venue the API can operate in conjunction with the computer system of the business venue to actively control the user experience on the wireless communication device.

In an exemplary embodiment the short range transceiver may be designed for operation in accordance with IEEE standard 802.11 sometimes referred to as WiFi. Many modern wireless communication devices are equipped with WiFi and may be readily upgraded to support the functionality described herein. Because the wireless communication devices all include WiFi capability short range communication networks may be formed even though the wireless communication devices may be designed to operate with incompatible wireless communication networks . For example the wireless communication device may be configured for operation with a GSM implementation of the wireless communication network . The wireless communication device may be configured for operation with a CDMA implementation of a wireless communication network . Even though the wireless communication devices are incompatible with respect to the respective wireless communication networks the wireless communication devices may still communicate directly with each other via the short range communication network . Thus the wireless communication devices may operate compatibly to form the short range communication networks even though the network transceivers see may operate with different incompatible wireless communication networks . In one embodiment when the jump enabled wireless communication device comes within range of any other jump enabled wireless communication device e.g. the wireless communication device of it establishes a short range wireless communication link e.g. the short range wireless communication link .

Various techniques for establishing the short range communication network see are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 397 225 filed on Mar. 3 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 970 351 U.S. application Ser. No. 12 616 958 filed on Nov. 12 2009 U.S. application Ser. No. 12 958 296 filed on Dec. 1 2010 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 093 988 filed on Apr. 26 2011 the entire disclosures and content of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

As will be discussed in greater detail below the system goes beyond some of the conventional operation of WiFi standards to permit a large number of wireless communication devices to communicate directly with each other. In one embodiment a local hot spot is used to initiate the formation of the short range communication network . Once established the short range communication network may continue to exist even if the hot spot or group owner is no longer present. In yet another alternative embodiment described below the wireless communication devices may be pre programmed to utilize a common SSID IPrange and port to spontaneously form a short range communication network even in the absence of any hot spot.

In an exemplary embodiment of the system each wireless communication device e.g. the wireless communication devices transmits a beacon signal with the same SSID such as the SSID JUMMMP to identify the device as a jump enabled wireless communication device. In addition the beacon frame includes several other data fields such as a media access layer MAC address for source and destination. In the beacon frame the destination MAC address is set to all ones to force other wireless communication devices to receive and process the beacon frame. The beacon frame used in the system may also include conventional elements such as a time stamp used for synchronization with other wireless devices information on supported data rates parameter sets that indicate for example transceiver operational parameters such as the IEEE 802.11 channel number and signaling method such as operation at the physical layer PHY and operation in a direct frequency spectrum DSSS or a frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS operational modes. These conventional WiFi parameters are known in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

In addition since there is no access point all jump enabled wireless communication devices take on the responsibilities of the MAC layer that controls manages and maintains the communication between the jump enabled wireless communication devices by coordinating access to the shared radio channel and the protocols that operate over the wireless medium. In an exemplary embodiment the MAC is implemented in accordance with IEEE 802.2. At the PHY layer the transceiver may operate in a DSSS or a FHSS operational mode. Alternatively the PHY layer may be implemented using infrared transceivers. The IEEE 802.11 standard defines a common operation whether devices are using the ad hoc or the infrastructure mode. The use of the ad hoc mode only affects protocols so there is no impact on the PHY layer. Thus the wireless communication device may operate under IEEE 802.11a at 5 gigahertz GHz under IEEE 802.11 b g at 2.4 GHz or IEEE 802.11n which operates at both 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the wireless communication device of the system may be readily adapted for operation with future versions of IEEE 802.11.

In an alternative embodiment the wireless communication devices may be configured in accordance with IEEE WiFi Direct standards. WiFi Direct allows any wireless communication device in the short range communication network to function as the group owner. WiFi Direct simplifies the process of establishing a communication link. For example the WiFi protected set up allows a communication link to be established by entering a PIN or other identification or simply pressing a button. As will be described herein the jump enabled wireless communication devices actively seek to establish links with other jump enabled devices to automatically establish a short range communication network .

In yet another alternative embodiment illustrated in the jump enabled wireless communication devices e.g. the wireless communication devices may communicate with an access point such as a WiFi base station WAP wireless router or the like. As will be described in greater detail below a wireless communication device e.g. one of the wireless communication devices may function as the access point to permit others of the wireless communication devices in the short range communication network to access the network via the wireless communication device serving as the access point. illustrates a wireless communication link established between the access point and the wireless communication device . Similarly the wireless communication device establishes a wireless communication link with the access point . Thus a short range communication network is formed in conjunction with the access point . To assist in a better understanding of the present disclosure short range communication networks will be generally referred to by the reference . Specific examples of short range communication networks will be referred to by the reference and an alphabetic identifier e.g. the short range communication network in .

Depending on the physical proximity of the wireless communication devices there may be one or more short range communication networks formed. In the example of the wireless communication devices are both within range of the access point . Therefore the first short range communication network can be formed with the wireless communication devices and the access point .

The wireless communication device is within range of the wireless communication device but is not within range of the access point . In one embodiment the wireless communication device may be become part of the short range communication network via the wireless communication device . In this embodiment the wireless communication device functions as a repeater or relay to relay information between the wireless communication device and other parts of the short range communication network . In another embodiment a second short range communication network is formed with the wireless communication devices . In this exemplary embodiment the wireless communication device is part of both short range communication networks . The wireless communication device may simultaneously be a member of both short range communication networks or may be logically connected to both short range communication networks by alternately switching between the short range communication networks 

The access point is coupled to the network in a conventional manner. This can include a wired or wireless connection directly to the network or via an intermediate network gateway such as those provided by an Internet Service Provider ISP . also illustrates a JUMMMP Network website which may support an individual web page for each member e.g. an individual person business organization etc. of the JUMMMP Network. also illustrates a generic conventional social network website which may support an individual web page for each member of the social network. The JUMMMP network website and social network website are each coupled to the network . Although illustrated in as two separate network websites those skilled in the art will appreciate that the JUMMMP website can effectively function as a social network website. Similarly the JUMMMP website technology can be incorporated into existing social network websites. Thus the two separate websites illustrated in can effectively be combined into a single website.

As discussed in detail in co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 616 958 filed on Nov. 12 2009 and assigned to the assignee of the present application the user of a jump enabled wireless communication device e.g. the wireless device may use the web browsing capability of the wireless communication device to access the individual JUMMMP web page for the individual with whom contact has just been made to learn more about that individual. Alternatively the user of a jump enabled wireless communication device e.g. the wireless device may use the web browsing capability of the wireless communication device to access the user s own individual JUMMMP web page to store information for the individual with whom contact has just been made. A contact list which is typically a portion of the individual JUMMMP web page is configured to store contact information. Similarly the individual web page of the social network can include a contact list to store contact information. In one embodiment the contact information may include a user profile exchanged along with individual messages between users. As will be discussed in greater detail below the user profile can include user name and preferences as well as information about the specific exchange of messages. For example the user profile can include the date and time at which messages were exchanged geo location data e.g. latitude and longitude of the sender of a message and the like and can also be stored as user profile data in the contact list . Applications for the profile data are described in greater detail below.

The wireless communication devices see generally have sufficient memory capacity to temporarily store contact information. In an exemplary embodiment the wireless communication device e.g. the wireless communication device can temporarily store new contact information until access to the network becomes available at a later time. In addition the wireless communication device can store designated contact information e.g. Favorites on a more permanent basis. Long term storage of contact information requires access to the network . In the embodiment of access to the network may be provided via the base station in a conventional manner. The wireless communication device may access the network by communicating directly with the base station . In the embodiment of access to the network may be provided via the access point as described above. For example the wireless communication device in may access the network by communicating directly with the access point via the short range communication link . Alternatively the wireless communication device can access the network and the JUMMMP network website via the wireless communication link to the base station . Network access via the gateway is well known in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

In an alternative embodiment access to the network may be provided via another jump enabled wireless communication device. For example in the wireless communication device can communicate with the base station via the wireless communication link while the wireless communication device cannot communicate directly with the base station. However the wireless communication device is in proximity with the wireless communication device and can communicate with the wireless communication device via the wireless communication link as part of the short range communication network . In this embodiment the wireless communication device can use the wireless communication device as a repeater or relay to allow the wireless communication device to access the network via the wireless communication device and the base station .

Similarly in the embodiment of the wireless communication devices can communicate directly with the access point via the wireless communication links respectively. The wireless communication devices can also communicate with each other via the access point thus forming the short range communication network . As seen in the wireless communication device cannot communicate directly with the access point . However the wireless communication device is in proximity with the wireless communication device and can communicate with the network via the wireless communication device and the access point .

As previously noted the system provides for the dynamic formation and rapid change in the topography of the short range communication networks . For example illustrates a first short range communication network formed with the wireless communication devices and a second short range communication network formed between the wireless communication devices . illustrates the dynamic nature of the wireless communication networks . For example if the wireless communication device is initially within range of the wireless communication device but out of range of the access point the wireless communication devices may form a short range communication network using the short range communication link . If the wireless communication device comes within range of the access point a wireless communication link is formed. In that event the wireless communication device may become part of a short range communication network formed between the access point and the wireless communication devices and . At this particular moment in time the mobile communication device may be part of both the short range communication network and the short range communication network . As discussed above the wireless communication device may actually be part of both the short range communication networks or may logically be connected to both the short range wireless communication networks by switching back and forth between the short range communication networks . The logical switching between the short range communication networks is transparent to the user. Other examples of the short range communication network are described below in which no access point is present.

Alternatively the wireless communication device may become part of the short range communication network using the wireless communication device as a relay to the access point . If at a later time the wireless communication device comes within range of the access point a wireless communication link is formed there between. At that point in time the short range communication network effectively ceases to exist since the wireless communication devices are now part of the short range communication network

The wireless communication device may be part of the short range communication network by virtue of the short range communication link coupling the wireless communication device to the access point . If the wireless communication device comes within range of the wireless communication devices wireless communication links will be formed to couple the wireless communication devices and thereby dynamically form a short range communication network . At this point in time the wireless communication device may simultaneously be part of the short range communication network and the short range communication network . Alternatively the wireless communication devices may become part of the short range communication network via the wireless communication device .

If the wireless communication device subsequently moves out of range of the access point the wireless communication link is broken. Therefore there will no longer be an overlap between the short range communication networks . The wireless communication device would remain part of the short range communication network so long as it remains within range of the wireless communication device the wireless communication device or both. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate that short range communication networks are dynamically formed modified and dissolved as the wireless communication devices move in and out of range with each other and central points such as the access point . Furthermore if the wireless communication device comes back into range of the access point the wireless communication link can be reestablished. When this happens all prior communications from the short range communication network will be transferred to the short range communication networks and and vice versa through the re echoing function described above. That is the various wireless communication devices will resynchronize the data in the data storage area see . Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the short range communication networks may be formed modified and dissolved without the presence of the access point .

Whenever a wireless communication device e.g. the wireless communication device comes within range of other wireless communication devices a short range wireless communication network e.g. the short range wireless communication network the wireless communication devices exchange message data with each other to thereby synchronize message data in the data storage area see . At the end of the synchronization process the data storage area of each wireless communication device will contain the same message data although messages may not be in the same sequence. In the example described above when the wireless communication device comes within range of the wireless communication device and or the wireless communication device the wireless communication links and are formed. Because the wireless communication device has just joined the short range communication network the data storage area of the wireless communication device will not be synchronized with the data storage area of other wireless communication devices in the short range communication network . During the synchronization process the wireless communication device transmits message data in its data storage area . The wireless communication devices and receive the message data. The controller see in each wireless communication device receives the message data and merges the messages with the message data already stored within the data storage area of the wireless communication devices and respectively. The controller in each of the wireless communication devices may also eliminate duplicate messages. In this manner each wireless communication device manages the message data within its data storage area .

As part of the synchronization process the wireless communication devices and may also transmit the message data within their respective data storage areas . The wireless communication device receives the messages from the wireless communication devices and and merges the newly received messages in the data storage area of the wireless communication device . As described above the controller see of the wireless communication device may eliminate duplicate messages within its data storage area . Following this synchronization process all wireless communication devices in the short range communication network will have identical messages.

In an exemplary embodiment the messages may be categorized as Public Messages Group Messages Direct Messages and Status Messages. Public Messages may be transmitted to anyone within range of the wireless communication device e.g. the wireless communication device . This may include emergency messages messages broadcast from a retailer and the like. Group Messages are intended for a specific group or organization such as a scout group or employees of a particular company or any formed group. Direct Messages are private messages intended for a specific individual. In addition the wireless communication device may transmit Status Messages which can include by way of example a list of other wireless communication devices in the particular short range communication network a list of recent wireless communication devices in the particular short range communication network a list of other short range communication networks in which the wireless communication device was recently a member or the like. The data message process described above can include one or more of these message categories. Other message categories may be created as necessary.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 093 998 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MANAGEMENT OF A DYNAMIC NETWORK USING WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES FILED ON Apr. 26 2011 and incorporated by reference in its entirety provides additional details of the message exchange process. As described therein the Public and Group Messages may be contained in one file and all Direct Messages contained in a separate file. The messages have a main header and individual message headers. The main header may include by way of example the date time of the last modification message count the date time of the last synchronization and the user name of the wireless communication device with which the last synchronization was performed. This information may help maintain synchronization between wireless devices. The individual message headers can also include geo location data e.g. latitude and longitude of the message sender.

The message data may include but is not limited to text message data audio data video data multimedia data or the like. As those skilled in the art will appreciate Public Messages may be received and processed by any wireless communication device. In contrast Group Messages may only be processed by a member of the designated group while a Direct Message may only be processed by the individual wireless communication device for whom the message is intended.

Synchronization may occur directly between the wireless communication devices or via the access point illustrated in . For example message synchronization can occur between the wireless communication device and the wireless communication device using the access point . In addition as will be described in greater detail below wireless communication devices can carry message data as they move from one short range communication network to another.

In another embodiment a retail business may broadcast Public Messages to nearby wireless communication devices. In an exemplary embodiment the retail facility can set up a wireless access point e.g. the wireless access point in to establish a short range communication network . For example a retail facility in a shopping mall can transmit advertisement messages to nearby wireless communication devices. In a typical embodiment these would be Public Messages that are freely relayed from one wireless communication device to another and from one short range wireless communication network to another. Using this form of message distribution an advertisement from a retail facility will soon be disseminated to all wireless users in the area. The advertisements may take the form of text messages or any other data message described above.

In another aspect an individual user may register with a business. Whenever the user comes within range of the short range communication network associated with the retail business message data may be exchanged thus enabling the business to identify a particular user that is nearby. In this embodiment the retail business may send a private advertisement message to the particular user. The private advertisement may be customized for the user based on a number of factors such as the user s profile e.g. the sex age and interests of the user prior shopping patterns or the like. It can also be based on statistical and history data that the retail business has collected on the user in one or more short range communication networks in the region around the retail business. For example if a particular user has registered with a restaurant and comes within range of the short range communication network of that restaurant at a subsequent time after registration the restaurant can send a private advertisement message to entice that user into the restaurant by offering a discount on a meal previously purchased by that user. If the user is a sports enthusiast a sports bar could send a message that a particular sporting event e.g. the user s college football team is ongoing and offer a discount on a meal. In this manner highly customized advertisements may be sent to individual users.

In some situations the user may not be within range of the short range communication network of the restaurant but may still be nearby. Because the wireless communication devices in the various short range communication networks relay messages any message from a particular user may be relayed to the retail business via one or more short range communication networks . Thus a business at one end of a mall may detect the arrival of a particular user at the opposite end of the mall and still transmit a customized advertisement message to that user.

Furthermore if the user has downloaded the API discussed briefly above the wireless communication device can automatically seek out and automatically connect to venues that have previously been registered as authenticated vendors. This may include business venues e.g. shopping malls clothing stores sports bars restaurants and the like . In this embodiment the wireless communication device can detect the access point of a particular venue and determine whether it is an authenticated vendor. In one embodiment an authenticated vendor will appear on the allowed list see so that the wireless communication device can automatically authenticate the venue and establish a communication link with the access point of that authenticated vendor. As will be described in greater detail below the authenticated vendor can use the established communication link to provide a variety of data to the wireless communication device. This can include advertising point of sale POL applications multi cast streaming video audio data image data and the like. Further details of the API and interaction between the wireless communication device and a venue using the API will be discussed in greater detail below.

In another example a wireless communication device may communicate with multiple vendors within a particular venue and receive information that varies from one venue to another. This is illustrated in . In wireless communication devices are referred to generically as user equipment UE . The term UE is intended to include any wireless communication device capable of processing audio video and text messaging. This includes smart phones laptops PDAs computer tablets e.g. an iPad and the like.

In one embodiment the UE e.g. the UE must log on and register with each AP e.g. the AP in order to establish the wireless communication link to receive ads or other content from the AP . As the UE moves into range of another AP e.g. the AP the UE can perform another log on and authentication process with the new AP. In an alternative embodiment described in greater detail below the various stores may become part of a larger Cloud network. The API will permit automatic authentication of a UE whenever it comes within range of an AP that is part of the Cloud network the vendor is an authenticated vendor on the Cloud network .

As will be described in greater detail below the server may control the flow of data to and from the UE via the AP and or the AP . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the APs e.g. the AP can be implemented in a variety of fashions. In one embodiment the AP may be directly coupled to a service provider. For example the AP may be implemented as a cable modem with wireless connectivity for the UE . In another embodiment the AP may be coupled to a computer not shown which controls operation of the AP as well as controlling communications with the network . In this embodiment the network may be a wide area network such as the internet.

In addition to the various wireless communication links between the UE and the RAN and or the AP the API will cause the UE to establish a wireless communication link with the UE . The wireless communication link is established using the short range transceiver see thus permitting the UE and to establish the short range communication network . The short range communication network in operates in a manner described above.

In the example of the AP and AP may be access points for different businesses. As the UE moves within range of the AP the wireless communication link is established and the AP may disseminate business information such as messages coupons advertisements and the like. Similarly when the UE moves within range of the AP the wireless communication link is established and the UE may receive business information from the AP . In the example of some or all of the information received from the AP via the wireless communication link may be relayed from the UE to the UE via the wireless communication link . Thus information from the business associated with the AP may be disseminated to other UEs the UE in via the short range communication network . As discussed above a wireless communication device e.g. the wireless communication device in may serve as a hot spot in a short range communication network . However in some settings such as the shopping mall example illustrated in there is generally sufficient coverage provided by the APs spread throughout the shopping mall. Thus the short range communication networks may typically be established using an AP such as the AP in or any of the APs shown in . As will be discussed in greater detail below the API includes a verification system to assure the authenticity of the information received by the UE from the AP and the AP .

In the UE has established wireless communication links with the APs respectively. As noted above these APs may be in a large business. As the user moves from one department to another or from one store level to another he may move in or out of range of one AP or the other. Thus the information provided to the UE may be customized for the user based on the user s current location within the business.

Due to the large size of the venue it may be necessary to deploy a network of APs illustrated by the reference number . The position and coverage area of the APs can be determined based on the particular hardware implementation. The actual distribution and installation of the APs within the venue is within the engineering knowledge of one skilled in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

In the embodiment of all of the APs may be coupled to a server e.g. the server in or a gateway see . As the UE moves throughout the venue it is making and breaking wireless communication devices with one or more of the APs . The identity of the UE can be verified by the UE providing a profile and user information and signing up for the WiFi service and downloading the API in exchange for free WiFi service. Initially this may be accomplished through a portal page as will be described in greater detail below.

Once the identity of the UE has been verified the server can use the installed API in each UE to provide customized messages to the owner of the UE. While the UE remains within the venue it is in substantially continuous contact with the APs and may receive data therefrom. For example the UE could receive an ad for free or discounted tickets to the performance venue or an invitation to happy hour at the nightclub venue or a discounted meal at the restaurant venue . If the owner of a UE is not a registered guest at a hotel within the venue the APs could send an invitation or ad to book a room in the venue . The UE can communicate with the server via the APs to accept one or more of the ad offers. For example the UE could transmit an acceptance and book tickets at the performance venue . Similarly the user of the UE can book a room in the venue .

Using the installed API the venue can establish virtually continuous wireless communication links with the UE and provide a stream of ad content e.g. ads offers discounts etc. for the venue and the related businesses . Thus the stream of ad data to the UE may be for the venue and the related businesses . Alternatively the venue may provide advertising for a different venue not shown . For example if the venue is a casino in a large city such as Las Vegas the server may provide ad content for a related business down the street or even for a third party business with whom the venue has contracted to provide advertising to the UE . For example the AP may provide advertising for a convention at a different venue or for a boxing match at a different venue. Thus advertising content may or may not be related to the venue in which the UE is presently located.

Within the JUMMMP Cloud are a number of components. A web portal page and policy controller server controls user authentication across a number of different venues in addition to the venue . A network management element controls overall operation of the network in the JUMMMP Cloud .

In addition to the log in web page the JUMMMP Cloud may have one or more interstitial web pages . For example interstitial web pages may display information about the venue or advertising for businesses within the venue third party advertising or advertising for other venues within the JUMMMP network while the user is waiting for completion of the registration verification process. In addition the JUMMMP Cloud may include one or more welcome web pages . The welcome web pages may offer various services such as a credit card data entry page and Internet access sign up page a voucher code entry page to permit the user to enter discount voucher data and the like. For example the initial registration can provide WiFi connectivity at a certain service level such as a basic bandwidth. However the welcome pages may include an offer to upgrade WiFi connectivity to a higher bandwidth for an advertised price. If the user is a guest at the venue the charge can be automatically made to the user s room. In another embodiment the user s phone may be charged for the upgraded bandwidth service. Other similar services may be provided in the welcome web pages .

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the interstitial web pages and the welcome web pages may be unique to the venue . Even though these web pages may be unique to the venue the centralized web portal page server within the JUMMMP Cloud simplifies the overall system architecture within the venue and within other venues by eliminating the need for a portal page server within each venue.

A local ad server in the JUMMMP Cloud may provide ads for the venue . As discussed above the ads may be for the venue itself or for the related businesses see . In addition the ads may be for businesses near the venue or for other venues in the JUMMMP network . The centralized ad server in the JUMMMP Cloud simplifies the network architecture within the venue and other venues by eliminating the need for an ad server within each venue. Even through the ad server is centralized within the JUMMMP Cloud it may contain a plurality of local ads for each of a number of different venues.

A data base server in the JUMMMP Cloud may be configured to collect a broad range of information regarding the UEs including the user profile information from the data storage area see that was provided via the API when the UE was first identified in the venue. The profile information will help provide targeting marketing and advertising to the UE as it traverses the venue . As previously discussed data messages may include geo location data. The geo location data e.g. longitude and latitude can be obtained in several possible ways. In one embodiment the wireless communication device e.g. the UE in may have built in GPS. Other possible location determination technologies include WiFi 3G approximation triangulation or last known location of the user. Other known location technologies may also be implemented in the system . For example the UE will communicate with different ones of the access point in the venue shown in . As the UE moves throughout the venue new communication links are established with nearby access points . By identifying which access point the UE is communicating with it is possible to determine the location of the UE with a reasonable degree of accuracy.

The database server is configured to store location information along with time date data to thereby track movements of the UE . In one embodiment the database server can also be configured to store message data from the UEs throughout the system . In yet another embodiment the database server may also store user profiles for the UE as well as profile data collected by the UE from other JUMMMP users. In one configuration the API which is installed on the UE as part of the verification process described above is configured to generate a heartbeat signal that periodically reports location data back to the database server . The location data may include a time date stamp to provide location information for the UE . This information can be useful for marketing purposes. Using the example of where the casino venue includes a large area as well as related businesses the database server can determine how long the UE remains in a particular area e.g. one area of the casino how many times and how long the UE remains at the bar in a nightclub or the like. By collecting this information the database server can establish a user profile for the UE for marketing purposes.

The JUMMMP Cloud also includes an IP transfer point which is coupled to a mobile operator network via a communication link . As those skilled in the art will appreciate mobile data offloading also called data offloading involves the use of complementary network technologies for delivering data originally targeted for cellular networks such as the mobile operator network . In areas where the cellular network traffic is heavy network congestion may occur. To reduce congestion mobile network operators sometimes set up WiFi access points in areas of congestion and allow some of the data originally targeted for the mobile operator network to be carried by the WiFi network. Rules triggering the mobile offloading action can be set by an end user i.e. the mobile subscriber or the mobile network operator. The software code operating on the offloading rules can reside in the UE in a server or divided between these two devices. For the end users the purpose of mobile data offloading may be based on the cost for data service and the ability of higher bandwidth. For mobile network operators the main purpose for offloading is to reduce congestion of the cellular network. The primary complementary network technologies used for mobile data offloading are WiFi femtocells and integrated mobile broadcast.

In a typical embodiment each mobile network operator has its own WiFi network to offload data that would otherwise be carried on its particular mobile operator network. In the context of the APs within the venue do not belong to the operator of the mobile operator network as is normally the case in data offloading. In the implementation described in the present disclosure the data offloading is provided by the venue through contract with the mobile operator network . Although illustrates only a single mobile operator network those skilled in the art will appreciate that it is representative of one or more mobile operator networks. In operation each mobile operator network contracts with the venue either directly or with the JUMMMP Cloud to provide data offloading in the venue. When the UE enters the venue the mobile network operator is notified and the mobile operator network can determine whether or not to offload data traffic for that UE. If data offloading for the UE is approved in accordance with the rules described above Internet access text messaging and even telephone calls can be provided to the UE via a connection from the mobile operator network through the communication link to the IP transfer point within the JUMMMP Cloud . In turn that offloaded data is routed through the backhaul to an AP and ultimately to the UE . Similarly outgoing calls from the UE may be routed in the reverse fashion. This approach has the beneficial effect of offloading traffic from an otherwise congested mobile operator network . In addition the mobile network operator may find improved performance because direct communication with the UE through a base station e.g. the base station in may not work well when the UE is inside a building such as the venue . Thus improved reception and reduction in network congestion are double benefits of the IP offloading provided by the JUMMMP Cloud .

In the embodiment of the policy server controller may function as a registration server to assure the authentication of the UE . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the components shown in the JUMMMP Cloud are illustrated as individual elements. In one embodiment a single policy controller server may be sufficient for a large area such as the entire country. Indeed in one embodiments a single policy controller server may provide registration services for the entire system . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the policy controller server may be illustrative of a number of different computing platforms designed to implement the functionality of the policy controller server. In one embodiment there may be a policy controller server for large cities individual states regions of the country or an entire country. In another embodiment the policy controller server may be implemented in a hierarchical fashion where a local or regional policy server controller contains local and regional data but may communicate with regional or national policy controller servers on a higher hierarchical level. For example if the UE performs an initial registration in one city that registration data may be stored in a local implementation of the policy controller server and reported to a regional or national level of the policy controller server. In this manner the registration data may be efficiently distributed throughout a wide area. As will be discussed in detail below this arrangement also facilitates easy subsequent authentication of the UE .

The UE must register with the system at some initial point in time. The initial registration can be performed remotely using by way of example a laptop or PC see connected to the JUMMMP Cloud via the network . In another variation the UE can perform an initial registration as it enters the venue illustrated in as described above. When the UE initially contacts the AP the policy controller server will not have any data related to a particular UE . In this case that initial AP in the venue may perform an initial registration. For the initial registration the UE can connect to the initial AP and provide identification information. In an exemplary embodiment the user can complete the initial registration process by providing data such as the telephone ID i.e. the phone number a device ID a user ID and an email address as well as other information such as the user profile in the data storage area see . The user ID may be a user generated name nickname or the like. The device ID may vary based on the particular type of the UE . For example if the UE utilizes an Android operating system the device will be assigned an Android ID. In addition the UE may typically be assigned an international mobile equipment identification IMEI . Any of these device identifications alone may be transmitted to the registration server . In another alternative embodiment a unique hash of one or more device IDs may be generated and transmitted to the registration server as the device ID. The short range transceiver see may also include an identification such as a MAC address that is unique to the UE . The registration data described above can be provided to the registration server along with the MAC address. As part of the initial registration process the API is downloaded and installed on the UE . As part of the registration process the user can review and accept any terms and conditions for installation of the API. The registration data may be stored in association with the MAC address. Once the initial registration process has been completed subsequent authentications are greatly simplified. Once the initial registration process is completed the web portal page server may transmit other pages such as the log in web page one or more interstitial web pages and the welcome web page shown in .

The UE can also perform the initial registration using a conventional wireless service provider network. As previously discussed the UE can communicate with the RAN see via the wireless communication link in a conventional manner. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the UE can access the network via the RAN . Conventional wireless service provider components such as a gateway to the network are known in the art but not illustrated in for the sake of clarity. In one embodiment the UE can perform a registration process with the registration server via the RAN . In this embodiment the UE accesses a website such as the JUMMMP network website illustrated in . In this example the registration server may be associated with the JUMMMP network website see or the JUMMMP Cloud of . In this embodiment the API may be downloaded and installed on the UE via the RAN . Again the user can review and accept the terms and conditions as part of the API installation process.

Alternatively the UE may perform an initial registration using a conventional computer e.g. the user computing device of to provide the registration data for the UE to the policy controller server . For example the user may make a reservation to visit a hotel such as the casino venue illustrated in . In a confirmation email from the hotel the user may be invited to perform a registration process with the registration server using by way of example a link to a registration web page. If the user has previously registered the UE with the policy controller server the user can simply provide a message to the policy controller server that the user and the UE will soon be in Las Vegas. The policy controller server can download the authentication information to the local or regional registration server associated with the geographic locale of the casino venue . In addition the registration server may preload the data in the Allowed List and the Blocked List in the UE even before the UE arrives in Las Vegas.

If the UE registration occurs at the venue via an AP e.g. the AP in the policy control server knows the geographic locale of the UE . The downloaded data for the Allowed List see and the Blocked List are lists of authenticated and unauthenticated APs in the geographic region in which the UE is presently located. In this manner the UE knows that information such as messages coupons advertisements and the like are received from valid and registered businesses. At the same time the UE will block such data if the AP sending such data is in the Blocked List

In one embodiment a previously registered UE may come within range of the initial AP in the venue of and establish a wireless communication link therewith. In establishing the communication link the API will cause the UE to transmit its MAC address and or the phone ID or IMEI. The AP transmits an authentication request message to the registration server to determine whether the UE is a registered device. Based on the MAC address the registration server can confirm that the UE has previously registered. Thus the UE is automatically authenticated whenever it comes into range of an AP of the system . This may occur transparently to the user. This automatic authentication process can occur even if the initial registration was in a completely different part of the country. Thus the UE may move from one venue to another in the same city or region or may be in a completely different part of the country and be automatically identified and authenticated with APs that are part of the system described herein. This convenient registration and authentication avoids the need for constantly searching for a WiFi connection as required by other systems. Based on this automatic authentication process the UE may be automatically connected to the WiFi network created by the APs in the venue. The UE may get welcome greetings from the venue and may also receive advertising offers discounts and the like.

The registration process at a single venue has been discussed above with respect to . The JUMMMP Cloud also advantageously provides a centralized registration function for multiple venues as illustrated in . The multiple venues are each connected to the JUMMMP Cloud via individual respective backhauls . If a UE initially registers at Venue using the registration process described above that registration information is stored in the JUMMMP Cloud . At a later point in time when the user enters by way of example Venue illustrated in the API in the UE will automatically identify the AP and begin to communicate therewith. Because the UE has already been registered that information is passed along to the JUMMMP Cloud and the Allowed List see and the Blocked List are automatically downloaded to the UE for its new current location. This is true even if the various venues are located far from one another. For example an initial registration of the UE may take place at a sports venue in by way of example New York City. However if the UE is carried to a casino in by way of example Las Vegas Nevada the UE will automatically begin to communicate with the AP in the new venue in Las Vegas. Because each venue is coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud the UE need not undergo another registration process when it enters the venue in Las Vegas. Thus a single registration process at any venue is sufficient for registration with the JUMMMP Cloud . Whenever the UE goes into a different venue that is coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud the UE is automatically recognized and authenticated. During the automatic authentication process the JUMMMP Cloud may provide interstitial portal pages to the UE . Upon completion of the automatic registration process welcome portal pages may then be transmitted to the UE .

Much of the programming functionality described above with respect to the UE is the result of the API executing on the UE. As the UE enters a particular venue e.g. the venue in the UE performs the automatic authentication process described above and allows the venue to manage the user s WiFi experience.

In addition the API once installed as a service on the UE can control the handset in terms of the content that can be pushed in the venue WiFi environment. Unlike an application program which must be actively executing the push of content can be delivered to the UE by the API without any application actively running. For example the API executing on an Android smartphone can have content that pops up on the phone while the API is running. The pushed content in addition to the social networking aspects of the API discussed above can include advertising point of sale and multi cast streaming video.

In addition the API executing on the UE can pull advertising data. For example the API can pull advertising data from the local ad server see when the API initially connects to the AP . In addition the API can pull further ads from by way of example the local ad server when the API sends a heartbeat signal. In addition the API can also pull for ads at any time.

As discussed above the API works in support of a push advertising platform in support of a WiFi network. The ads may be in the form of promotions offers discounts and the like and are simply collectively referred to as ads. Operating in conjunction with the network such as the Internet the venue can push a number of different ads to the UE . For example the ads may include banner ads that provide a link to a website. On that website any type of content ad video audio images etc. can be shown. When clicked by the user the banner ad can also download an application or an animated ad or full screen banner ads. The ads may be provided directly by the venue or retrieved from the local ad server see . In addition the ads may be provided from an internal or third party ad server.

Alternatively ADMOB ads can be downloaded using an application program. ADMOB is a third part company that specializes in delivery of advertising to mobile units. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the ads can be provided to the API by any internal or third party ad server.

In an alternative embodiment an ad may be provided to the UE by a super user. A super user is an individual that has been authorized to push ads to the UE. For example the maitre d in a restaurant in a hotel resort complex or casino may be authorized to send ads to the UEs to provide selected deals for the restaurant. The super user can decide to push ads to users that are just outside the restaurant by selectively targeting certain APs that are near the restaurant or the ad can be pushed to all APs within the entire facility. In another example a casino theater nightclub may have a large number of empty seats shortly before show time. In this example a club manager may be a super user and can send an ad for discounted ticket prices e.g. 50 off to the UEs . Again the ad may be targeted to APs near the theater nightclub or to all Aps throughout the facility. Thus a super user is an individual designated to authorize the delivery of ads to the UEs on an as needed basis. As discussed above ads refer generically to advertisements of any form including but not limited to text ads pop up menus video audio images and the like. In one embodiment the super user may be able to select the ad type from among a plurality of available ads. For example an initial ad may simply be a text message offering a small percentage discount while a subsequent ad may be a banner ad or a full screen image offering a greater discount. In yet another alternative embodiment the super user may send a link to website containing the actual ad.

In yet another embodiment a quick response QR code can be pushed to the UE . A QR code is a two dimensional bar code matrix. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the QR code can be used to send actual data from the UE to a website.

As previously discussed messages sent to the UE from the venue can take the form of an image PDF file video audio link to a website actively pop up a website or may include text messages. As described above text messages may be in the form of public text messages intended for multiple UEs or a private text message intended for a single UE. In addition the API can review and activate a command to open up an application remotely. For example when the UE walks within proximity of the AP an application can be automatically opened up. The remote activation of an application can be controlled to be a public activation for any UE that moves within range of an AP or can be targeted to individual UEs as a private ad.

The use of the Allowed List A and Blocked List B see has been discussed above. In the context of the API the Allowed List A and Blocked List B can be used by the UE to identify verified enterprise users within the venue itself or to any venue coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud see . The Allowed List A and the Blocked List B are generated for the API at API start up. In one embodiment the Allowed List A and Blocked List B may be downloaded from the JUMMMP Cloud . In an exemplary embodiment the JUMMMP Cloud may provide verification of enterprise users in a geographic area surrounding the present location of the UE . For example if the UE is presently in a venue such as a casino in Las Vegas the JUMMMP Cloud may download the Allowed List A and the Blocked List B for the particular venue in Las Vegas or for the entire Las Vegas area. In one embodiment the Allowed List A and the Blocked List B are downloaded from the JUMMMP Cloud when the API sends a heartbeat signal. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the Allowed List A and the Blocked List B can be updated on a continuous basis. Thus the US maintains up to date lists.

The concept of a super user has been discussed above. In an exemplary embodiment the device ID of the device being used by the super user must be verified and contained in the Allowed List A. A corporation or business entity can also be designated as a corporate super user. In this embodiment corporate super users can enter their corporate ID in their profile and if the corporate ID is contained within Allowed List A the corporate super users will be able to send verified ads regardless of the actual device ID. In this manner individual verified users and corporate wide users can be verified for the UE .

The concept of automatic user verification in multiple venues has been discussed above with respect to . That is once a user is registered and verified in one venue that user information is associated with the UE and that information is stored In the JUMMMP Cloud . At a Later date when the user enters another venue coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud the UE is automatically identified and verified by virtue of the previous registration. Thus the API permits automatic verification across multiple venues. In the context of advertising it is possible to provide ads from one venue to another. For example someone from Los Angeles visiting Las Vegas could receive local ads from by way of example the MGM casino as well as ads from one of the baseball teams in Los Angeles for use when the user returns home.

When a UE enters a new venue that is coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud automatic verification is performed as described above. Upon verification the API can remotely activate an application as described above. The application can be automatically updated on the UE for the particular venue . In addition the application can provide a new skin for the UE that is unique to that particular venue.

Because the API remains on the UE it remains active unless the user uninstalls it. In the absence of removal of the API the UE will be tracked by heart beats that are sent to the JUMMMP Cloud on a defined time interval. As a result the UE can continue to receive ads text messages and the like that will be pushed to the phone by any venue coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud . If two UEs have both installed the API and have left a venue the two devices can still communicate with each other using the short range communication network as previously described.

If the user has manually installed the API prior to a visit to the venue or has previously visited a venue and downloaded the API the UE is automatically recognized whenever the user enters a venue that is coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud . The automatic authentication process has been described above. In addition any updates to the API may be automatically installed whenever the UE undergoes the automatic verification process. In this embodiment the initial verification may include an indication of the current software version of the API to allow the UE to determine whether it has the most current software. If not the UE can automatically request the updated software version of the API. Furthermore any associated APs can also be updated upon identification verification.

Once the registered and authenticated user has entered a venue see the API will automatically communicate with the one or more APs . As illustrated in the venue comprises a number of different avenues by which it may push content to the UE including ads of any type streaming multicast video point of sales information and the like. As noted above the API resident within the UE permits the reception of content by the UE. It is not necessary for an application program to be currently executing to receive such content. As illustrated in the system may include an enterprise POS website to provide point of sales information and sales opportunities to the UE . The POS information may be ads of any sort discount prices free services or the like. The enterprise POS website may be resident within the venue or coupled to the network to deliver its content.

The enterprise POS website can provide a secure website connection via the network or directly through the infrastructure at the venue to communicate with one or more of the APs . In one embodiment the user may provide credit card information during the initial registration process. If so the enterprise POS website can access a secure connection to retrieve the credit card information. Alternatively the user may transmit the credit card information to the enterprise POS website via a secure connection using by way of example a private communication. The enterprise POS website can provide secure web pages for credit card information in this embodiment. The enterprise POS website can also provide information regarding food and or merchandise menus for ordering. The venue APP can be configured to provide seating location to a vendor as well as the food merchandise order and credit cash transaction payment to permit the order to be delivered to the guest. For example the venue may be a sports venue. In this example the UE may access the enterprise POS website to order food to be delivered directly to the user s seat within the sports venue. In addition the user may order merchandise such as a program sports jersey and the like. In this example the food and or merchandise can be delivered directly to the user. Upon completion the transaction can be recorded and a percentage of the financial transaction can flow to the service provider.

The venue may also include the venue ad server described above with respect to . The venue may also include a venue video server . As those skilled in the art will appreciate the nature of the video delivered by the venue video server may be venue dependent. For example if the venue is a sports stadium the venue video server can deliver streaming multicast video of replays close ups or video from multiple vantage points. Similarly if the venue is a race track the venue video server may deliver video showing views from different portions of the race track on board video cameras mounted to the race cars replays and the like. In yet another example a casino venue may use the venue video server to deliver video instructional services for different games i.e. poker blackjack roulette and the like . The venue video server in a casino venue can also deliver streaming multicast video of performances in a nightclub theater within the casino. Thus the venue video server is a flexible device that can deliver various forms of video to the UE via one or more APs .

In addition illustrates a super user . As discussed above certain individuals or corporate super users can be authorized to deliver ads to the UE on short notice.

When the UE leaves the venue it may still be able to receive push content. If the AP is still active when the UE exits the venue at it can continue to receive push content at . To stop receiving push content the user can turn off the API at or uninstall the API at . However if the user of the UE elects to keep the API active the UE can communicate with other phones having the API installed using the short range networks at step . The dynamic formation maintenance and termination of short range communication networks have been described in detail above.

Another advantage of maintaining the API in an active state is that the UE will automatically be authenticated at step whenever the UE comes within range of an AP coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud .

If the API has been turned off or uninstalled at decision the system is unable to push additional content at step . Furthermore the UE will be unable to form any short range communication networks and will not be automatically authenticated when the user reenters the original venue or enters a new venue coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud .

The multicast streaming video will be sent through the network of APs and directed to the UE . The streaming video can be played locally on the UE with a conventional multicast video player. In addition video ads can be interstitially placed in the video stream as an additional source of ad revenue. Furthermore static and dynamic ads can be placed in the video player for additional ad revenue. For example the streaming video may contain a banner ad above or below the actual video content. The banner ads may also provide a link to the website .

The foregoing described embodiments depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this invention. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is solely defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

