---

title: Method and system for controlling display of content to user
abstract: The present disclosure relates to a method and a system for controlling display of content to user. In one embodiment, an input image of the user is captured and processed to detect the presence of spectacles in the input image. On detecting the absence of spectacles, the content available for display is processed to identify readable and non-readable content and refractive error correction factor for the non-readable content is determined. Based on the determined refractive error correction factor, the display of both the readable and non-readable content is controlled and the content is displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367129&OS=09367129&RS=09367129
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09367129
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150320
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Patent Application No. 569 CHE 2015 filed Feb. 5 2015. The aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present subject matter is related in general to personalized electronic displays and more particularly but not exclusively to method and system for controlling display of content to users.

Generally users of devices with electronic visual displays suffer from Presbyopia due to error in their vision and wear spectacles with error corrected lenses when reading text or viewing images at close range. However these glasses are worn intermittently and if a user unexpectedly needs to view an electronic visual display reading glasses may not be conveniently available or the user may forget to wear it.

Typical content displayed in electronic visual displays comprises combination of text and or images with different sizes. A particular portion of the content may be readable at a particular level of vision defect however another portion of the content may not be readable. A user has to manually alter the size of text or images and adjust the display to address his her reading difficulties which is burdensome. Therefore there is a need for method and device for controlling display of content based on refractive power capabilities of the users eliminating the need of wearing vision correction articles by the users.

One or more shortcomings of the prior art are overcome and additional advantages are provided through the present disclosure. Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present disclosure. Other embodiments and aspects of the disclosure are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed disclosure.

Accordingly the present disclosure relates to a method of controlling display of content to user. The method comprises the steps of capturing an input image of the user by an image sensor of a display controlling device and detecting the presence of spectacles in the captured input image. Upon detecting the presence of spectacles one or more readable and non readable content available for display is identified and refractive error correction factor for each of the non readable content is determined. Based on at least the refractive error correction factor thus determined display of the content is controlled.

Further the present disclosure relates to a system for controlling display of content to user. The system comprises an image sensor for capturing an input image of the user. The system further comprises a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to detect the presence of spectacles in the input image of the user. The processor is furthermore configured to identify one or more readable and non readable content available for display and determine refractive error correction factor for each of the non readable content. Based on at least the refractive error correction factor thus determined the processor controls the display of the content.

Furthermore the present disclosure relates to a non transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when processed by at least one processor cause a system to perform the act of capturing an input image of the user. Further the instructions cause the processor to detect the presence of spectacles in the input image of the user and identify one or more readable and non readable content available for display. Upon identifying the instructions cause the processor to determine refractive error correction factor for each of the non readable content and control the display of the content based on at least the refractive error correction factor thus determined.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative systems embodying the principles of the present subject matter. Similarly it will be appreciated that any flow charts flow diagrams state transition diagrams pseudo code and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable medium and executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

In the present document the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or implementation of the present subject matter described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail below. It should be understood however that it is not intended to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternative falling within the spirit and the scope of the disclosure.

The terms comprises comprising or any other variations thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a setup device or method that comprises a list of components or steps does not include only those components or steps but may include other components or steps not expressly listed or inherent to such setup or device or method. In other words one or more elements in a system or apparatus proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of other elements or additional elements in the system or apparatus.

The present disclosure relates to a method and a system for controlling display of content to user. In one embodiment an input image of the user is captured and processed to detect the presence of spectacles in the input image. On detecting the absence of spectacles the content available for display is processed to identify readable and non readable content and refractive error correction factor for the non readable content is determined. Based on the determined refractive error correction factor the display of both the readable and non readable content is controlled and the content is displayed.

In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the disclosure reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

The display controlling system hereinafter referred to as system comprises one or more components configured to control the display of the content to users. In one embodiment the exemplary system includes a central processing unit CPU or processor the memory and an I O interface . The I O interface is coupled with the processor and an I O device. The I O device is configured to receive inputs via the I O interface and transmit outputs for displaying in the I O device via the I O interface .

The system also comprises an image sensor A for capturing image of the user as input to identify the user and alter the geometry of the content for display to the user according to the vision defect of the identified user. In one embodiment the image sensor A may be for example integrated camera that is integrated with the system . In another embodiment the image sensor A may be for example web cam camera or any image capturing device that is externally coupled with the system . Furthermore the system comprises a display unit B coupled with the image sensor A for displaying the content to the user.

The system further comprises data and modules . In one implementation the data and the modules may be stored within the memory . In one example the data may include input image of user refractive index error data store and geometrical characteristics of content refractive error correction factor and training images of user threshold characteristics value and other data . In one embodiment the data may be stored in the memory in the form of various data structures. Additionally the aforementioned data can be organized using data models such as relational or hierarchical data models. The other data may be also referred to as reference repository for storing recommended implementation approaches as reference data. The other data may also store data including temporary data and temporary files generated by the modules for performing the various functions of the system .

The modules may include for example the user registration module spectacle detection module context analysis module error compensation module and display control module . The modules may also comprise other modules to perform various miscellaneous functionalities of the device . It will be appreciated that such aforementioned modules may be represented as a single module or a combination of different modules. The modules may be implemented in the form of software hardware and or firmware.

In one implementation the user registration module creates one or more profiles of users capable of using the device . In one embodiment the user registration module receives one or more images of the user captured by the image sensor and stores the captured images in the memory as predefined images of the user . One or more captured images of the user for example include a first image of the user without wearing spectacles and a second image of the user with spectacles. The user registration module creates a profile for each user generates a unique a profile identification ID number for each user profile and stores the predefined images corresponding to the profile ID of the user in the memory . The user registration module also receives and stores refractive index error value with corrected vision and radii of curvature of one or more users in the refractive index error data store .

In operation the input image of the user is captured by the image sensor and pre processed by the processor to determine the authenticity of the user. In one example the processor pre processes the received input image and detects the face image of the user from the pre processed input image . The face image of the user may be detected using facial recognition algorithms known in the art. Upon determining the face image the processor compares the face image of the user with at least one of the predefined images for example the first image of the user stored in the memory . If the face image of the user matches with at least one of the predefined images of each user it is determined that the user is a registered user and the spectacle detection module proceeds to detect the presence of spectacles in the input image of the user. If the face image of the user matches with none of the predefined images then the user is determined to be an unregistered user and the content is displayed without any modification or alteration in the characteristic of the content.

Upon determination of user to be registered user the spectacle detection module detects the presence of spectacles by comparing the input image with at least one of the predefined images for example the second image of one or more users wearing spectacles already stored in the memory . The presence or absence of the spectacles is detected and the output of the detection is sent as input to the context analysis module . For example if the presence of the spectacles is not detected by the spectacle detection module the output indicating the absence of spectacles is transmitted as input to the context analysis module . On the other hand if the presence of the spectacles is detected then the content is displayed as is by the processor .

The context analysis module analyses the content to be displayed suitable for the user s vision once the absence of the spectacles input is received. In one embodiment the content to be displayed is classified into readable and non readable content. For example the content is classified into one or more groups or sub contents including at least text image and icons etc. For each group one or more geometrical characteristics like size width length and so on are determined. In one implementation the context analysis module determines the size of fonts in each text group width and length for each image and icon groups. Upon determining the geometrical characteristics of each group are compared with a predetermined threshold characteristic value to identify the readability of the group. The threshold characteristic value is determined based at least on the stored refractive index and radii of curvature of the user. In one example the threshold value is determined using inverse of lens man formula. If the geometrical characteristic of a group is determined to be lesser than the predetermined threshold characteristic value then the group of the content is classified as non readable otherwise the group is classified as readable. A list of readable and non readable groups of the content is stored in the memory. For example a hash table comprising the list of groups is created and mapped with analysis output readable or non readable . For example see below table A.

Upon identifying the non readable content the error compensation module determines appropriate refractive error correction factor to compensate the user s vision thereby improving the readability of the non readable content. In one embodiment the error compensation module determines the actual geometrical characteristics for example actual size of each group using known lens maker formula and calculates the difference between the actual size and the predetermined threshold characteristic value to determine refractive error compensation factor or the resizing factor. Based on the refractive error compensation factor thus determined the error compensation module enable the resizing of the content without altering or losing the information or aspect ratio of the content of each group. Upon resizing the content the error compensation module determines a new content comprising the readable content and the resized content.

The display control module renders the display of the re sized content based on the error compensation factor thus determined. In one implementation the display control module determines the size of the display window child pop up windows based on the error compensation factor of each group and controls the display of scroll bars etc. Upon resizing the window size the new content is displayed by the display control module via the display unit B. In case if the user wears the spectacles and the spectacle detection module detects the presence of spectacles then the display control module automatically switches to the original mode of display and renders the content as is. Thus the display controlling device enables faster rendering of the content for display based on spectacle detection and selectively altering or resizing the content.

As illustrated in the method comprises one or more blocks implemented by the processor of the display controlling device for controlling display of content to user. The method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method . Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

At block capture input image. In one embodiment the input image of the user is captured by the image sensor and pre processed by the processor to determine the authenticity of the user. In one example the processor pre processes the received input image and detects the face image of the user from the pre processed input image . The face image of the user may be detected using facial recognition algorithms known in the art. Upon determining the face image the processor compares the face image of the user with at least one of the predefined images for example the first image of the user stored in the memory . If the face image of the user matches with at least one of the predefined images of each user it is determined that the user is a registered user and the spectacle detection module proceeds to detect the presence of spectacles in the input image of the user. If the face image of the user matches with none of the predefined images then the user is determined to be an unregistered user and the content is displayed without any modification or alteration in the characteristic of the content.

At block detect presence of spectacles in the input image. In one embodiment the spectacle detection module detects the presence of spectacles by comparing the input image with at least one of the predefined images for example the second image of one or more users wearing spectacles already stored in the memory . The presence or absence of the spectacles is detected and the output of the detection is sent as input to the context analysis module . For example if the presence of the spectacles is not detected by the spectacle detection module the output indicating the absence of spectacles is transmitted as input to the context analysis module . On the other hand if the presence of the spectacles is detected then the content is displayed as is by the processor .

At block identify non readable content. In one embodiment the context analysis module analyses the content to be displayed suitable for the user s vision once the absence of the spectacles is detected. Let us consider an example content displayed by the display unit B within a window A having a predetermined size is shown in . The context analysis module classifies the content to be displayed into readable and non readable content. For example the content is classified into one or more groups including at least text image and icons etc. As shown in the content is classified into text group A and one or more image group A and A. For each group one or more geometrical characteristics like size of text width length of image groups are determined.

In one implementation the context analysis module determines the size of fonts in each text group A width and length for each image and icon groups A and A. Upon determining the geometrical characteristics of each group are compared with a predetermined threshold characteristic value to identify the readability of the group. The threshold characteristic value is determined based at least on the stored refractive index and radii of curvature of the user. In one example the threshold value is determined using inverse of lens man formula. If the geometrical characteristic of a group is determined to be lesser than the predetermined threshold characteristic value then the group of the content is classified as non readable otherwise the group is classified as readable. As illustrated in the text group A and the image group A is classified as non readable and the image group A is classified as readable.

At block determine refractive error correction factor. In one embodiment the error compensation module determines appropriate refractive error correction factor to compensate the user s vision thereby improving the readability of the non readable content. In one embodiment the error compensation module determines the actual geometrical characteristics for example actual size of each group using known lens maker formula and calculates the difference between the actual size and the predetermined threshold characteristic value to determine refractive error compensation factor or the resizing factor.

Based on the refractive error compensation factor thus determined the error compensation module enable the resizing of the content without altering or losing the information or aspect ratio of the content of each group. For example as illustrated in the font size of the text group A is increased based on the resizing factor displaying the resized text group B. Also the size of image group A has been increased to display the resized image group B. Upon resizing the content the error compensation module determines a new content comprising the readable content and the resized content. In one example the error compensation module combines the readable content i.e. image group A with the resized content i.e. text group B and image group B into a new content.

At block control the display of content. In one embodiment the display control module renders the display of the re sized content based on the error compensation factor thus determined. In one implementation the display control module determines the size of the display window child pop up windows based on the error compensation factor of each group and controls the display of scroll bars etc. For example as illustrated in the size of the window A is now altered to a resized window B.

Upon resizing the window size the new content is displayed by the display control module via the display unit B. In case if the user wears the spectacles and the spectacle detection module detects the presence of spectacles then the display control module automatically switches to the original mode of display and renders the content as is. Thus the display controlling device enables faster rendering of the content for display based on spectacle detection and selectively altering or resizing the content.

Variations of computer system may be used for implementing all the computing systems that may be utilized to implement the features of the present disclosure. Computer system may comprise a central processing unit CPU or processor . Processor may comprise at least one data processor for executing program components for executing user or system generated requests. The processor may include specialized processing units such as integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units graphics processing units digital signal processing units etc. The processor may include a microprocessor such as AMD Athlon Duron or Opteron ARM s application embedded or secure processors IBM PowerPC Intel s Core Itanium Xeon Celeron or other line of processors etc. The processor may be implemented using mainframe distributed processor multi core parallel grid or other architectures. Some embodiments may utilize embedded technologies like application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 40 400 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM Error Reference source not found. etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system Error Reference source not found. user interface application Error Reference source not found. web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X UNIX Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

As described above the modules amongst other things include routines programs objects components and data structures which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The modules may also be implemented as signal processor s state machine s logic circuitries and or any other device or component that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Further the modules can be implemented by one or more hardware components by computer readable instructions executed by a processing unit or by a combination thereof.

The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. are non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

