---

title: System and method for reception and transmission optimization of secured video, image, audio, and other media traffic via proxy
abstract: A proxy server may receive from a user endpoint, a secure connection request to a second server. The secure connection request may comprise a globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint. The proxy server may intercept, from the user endpoint, a first secure handshake with the second server. The proxy server may initiate a second secure handshake with the second server based on the intercepted first secure handshake. The proxy server may intercept from the second server a second secure handshake response comprising a server certificate with metadata. The proxy server may generate a second certificate using the metadata and signed with a first certificate authority associated with the globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint. The proxy server may transmit to the user endpoint a modified response to the secure connection request secured with the second certificate to establish a proxied secure connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09197673&OS=09197673&RS=09197673
owner: A2Zlogix, Inc.
number: 09197673
owner_city: Edison
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150518
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to network optimization and more particularly to the field of reception and transmission optimization of secured video image audio and other mediatraffic via a proxy server.

The downloading and uploading of images and video by end users over operator networks such as DOCSIS Ethernet fixed line WIFI 3G and 4G LTE infrastructure presents an ever increasing challenge for operators as finite numbers of links become more and more saturated. A common technique for reducing load on the packet core of the network is to cache commonly used content near an access point whereby requests for the content are serviced locally instead of reaching all the way through the core network as that taught in U.S. Pat. No. 7 770 198. Other techniques that reduce load on the last mile side of the network include TCP window optimization such as taught in U.S. Pat. No. 8 639 835 and compressing text traffic between a packet core and a user endpoint or handset as taught in U.S. Pat. No. 8 792 408.

Several techniques specific to optimizing image and video download are known in the art such as just in time transcoding and transrating of content before sending through the last mile of the network as taught in U.S. Pat. No. 6 628 300. None of these techniques or any others in the art address the problem of optimizing image and video upload. Further none of these techniques address the problem of optimizing image and video download nor upload when such traffic is secured with protocols such as HTTPS or SSL. Such traffic comprises a growing percentage of traffic transiting over most operator networks and presents a serious challenge to operators wishing to optimize such traffic flows.

While there exist well known techniques for proxying of HTTPS and SSL traffic such as those taught in U.S. Pat. No. 8 214 635 the 635 patent these techniques are directed to purposes of deep packet inspection and filtering of traffic not media optimization. Further these techniques expose serious security risks.

In the 635 patent a common root certificate authority is shared between the proxy firewall and all user endpoints. This is useful for circumstances at an enterprise where for regulatory compliance all traffic must be inspected and logged including traffic secured with HTTPS and SSL and the enterprise maintains some manner of physical access control to the user endpoints. However a determined actor in possession of any single one of these user endpoints can perform cryptanalysis on the shared root certificate authority in their possession. Once the private key is obtained from this certificate authority all secured traffic from all user endpoints within the network behind the proxy firewall can be intercepted presenting a serious security risk.

Some parental control software and ad insertion software uses similar methods and present similar security risks. In fact these risks can be more severe than compromising all endpoints behind a single proxy as many of the aforementioned methods and proxies use a common vendor library which the same root certificate authority. In such circumstances once the private key for a certificate authority is obtained all endpoints with any software using the single library can be compromised.

Contemporaneous to the filing of this disclosure several such incidents were disclosed and reported in the media Lenovo Pulls Laptop App After Security Warnings Wall Street Journal Feb. 19 2015 and U.S. Department of Homeland Security US CERT Alert TA15 051A Lenovo Superfish Adware Vulnerable to HTTPS Spoofing Feb. 20 2015 .

The above described problems are remedied and a technical solution is achieved in the art by providing a system and method for a user endpoint communicating with a proxy server to receive image video audio or other media data from a second server via the proxy server. The proxy server may receive from a user endpoint a secure connection request to a second server. The secure connection request may comprise a globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint. The proxy server may initiate a first secure handshake with the second server. The proxy server may receive from the second server a first secure handshake response comprising a server certificate with metadata. The proxy server may generate a second certificate using the metadata and signed with a first certificate authority associated with the globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint. The proxy server may transmit to the user endpoint a modified response to the secure connection request secured with the second certificate to establish a proxied secure connection.

In an example prior to receiving the secure connection request to the second server the proxy server may receive the first certificate authority. The first certificate authority may also be installed on the user endpoint. The first certificate authority may be generated using the globally unique identifier. The proxy server may receive a registration that distinguishes the first certificate authority from other certificate authorities based on the globally unique identifier employed as a primary key.

In an example the proxy server may request a media asset by the user endpoint from the second server and optimizing reception of the media asset. Accordingly the proxy server may intercept from the user endpoint a media receive request intended for the second server comprising a payload from the user endpoint. The proxy server may decrypt the payload using a private key of the second certificate. The proxy server may create a media request to the second server by encrypting the payload with the public key of the server certificate. The proxy server may forward the encrypted payload to the second server.

In an example the proxy server may receive an encrypted media receive response from the second server containing media data encrypted with the generated second server certificate private key. The proxy server may decrypt the media receive response with the public key of the second server certificate to obtain a media receive payload. The proxy server may pass the media receive payload through the media pre filtering processor of the proxy server to obtain a pre filtered payload. The proxy server may encrypt the pre filtered payload with the second certificate private key to create a pre filtered media receive response. The proxy server may forward the pre filtered media receive response to the user endpoint.

In an example the proxy server passing the media receive payload through the media pre filtering processor may comprise media pre filtering processor performing at least one of resolution reduction dynamic range reduction frame rate reduction spatial high frequency reduction spatio temporal high frequency reduction entropy coding of protocol headers or DCT or wavelet coefficient re quantization of the media audio images or video payloads.

In an example prior to receiving a first secure connection the proxy server may receive a configuration to incorporate or communicate with a media pre filtering processor to generated pre filtered media audio images or video payloads.

In an example the rule or policy may be at least predicated on presence of the corresponding one of the certificate authorities on the user endpoint.

In an example the proxy server may communicate the media receive payload to a transcoding or a transrating service using the internet content adaptation protocol ICAP . In an example the proxy server communicates the media receive payload to a transcoding or a transrating service using asynchronous application programming interface API calls.

The above described problems are remedied and a technical solution is achieved in the art by providing a system and method for a user endpoint communicating with a proxy server to post media audio image or video data to a second server via the proxy server.

The proxy server may receive from a user endpoint a secure connection request to a second server. The secure connection request may comprise a globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint. The proxy server may initiate a first secure handshake with the second server. The proxy server may receive from the second server a first secure handshake response comprising a server certificate with metadata. The proxy server may generate a second certificate using the metadata and signed with a first certificate authority associated with the globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint. The proxy server may transmit to the user endpoint a modified response to the secure connection request secured with the second certificate to establish a proxied secure connection.

In an example prior to receiving the secure connection request to the second server the proxy server may receive the first certificate authority. The first certificate authority may also be installed on the user endpoint. The first certificate authority may be generated using the globally unique identifier. The proxy server may receive a registration that distinguishes the first certificate authority from other certificate authorities based on the globally unique identifier employed as a primary key.

In an example the proxy server may post a media asset by a user endpoint to a second server and optimizing the transmission of the media asset. Accordingly the proxy server may intercept from the user endpoint a media send request comprising a pre filtered media payload to the second server via the proxied secure connection. The proxy server may decrypt the payload using a private key of the second certificate. The proxy server may pass the pre filtered media payload through the post filtering processor to obtain a post filtered media payload. The proxy server may encrypt the post filtered media payload with the generated certificate private key to create a second media post request. The proxy server may forward the encrypted second media post request to the second server.

In an example the proxy server passing the pre filtered media payload through the post filtering processor may comprise the post filtering processor performing one or more of super resolution or non linear interpolation methods in any of the audio frequency DCT image spatial color gamut or video statio temporal domains.

In an example the proxy server may communicate the pre filtered media receive payload to the post filtering processor using the ICAP protocol. In an example the proxy server may communicate the pre filtered media receive payload to the post filtering processor using asynchronous API calls.

It is to be understood that the attached drawings are for purposes of illustrating the concepts of the invention and may not be to scale.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a system and method for reception and transmission optimization of secured media audio video and image traffic via proxy while being transparent to upstream services such as media distributors photo and video sharing applications audio streaming and social network services.

In the following description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring examples of the present disclosure.

The processing device may further implement a graphics processing unit GPU . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other co processor architectures may be utilized besides GPUs such as but not limited to DSPs FPGAs or ASICs or adjunct fixed function features of the processing device itself. It will further be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the GPU may be collocated on the same physical chip or logical device as the central processing units also known as an APU such as found on mobile phones and tablets. Separate GPU and CPU functions may be found on computer server systems where the GPU is a physical expansion card and personal computer systems and laptops. The GPU may comprise a GPU memory . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the host memory and GPU memory may also be collocated on the same physical chip s or logical device such as on an APU.

The processing device may be configured to receive audio image video or other content data from the data source . The processing device may be configured to create the image data buffer based on the received audio image video or other content data which may be processed by a pre filtering processor . The pre filtering processor may be configured to transfer processed audio image video or other content data to an encoder and a transmitter for transmission of encrypted audio image video or other content data to a computer platform e.g. of a proxy server over a private network .

In another example the user endpoint may be configured to receive encrypted image video or other content data from the computer platform e.g. of the proxy server over the private network . A receiver and a decoder may be configured to receive and decrypt respectively the encrypted audio image video or other content data. The decoder may be configured to transfer the decoded audio image video or other content data to a post filter processor of the GPU . The audio image video or other content data may be processed by the post filter processor and further transferred as an image data buffer to a display or audio device and or storage .

The processing device may further implement a graphics processing unit GPU . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other co processor architectures may be utilized besides GPUs such as but not limited to DSPs FPGAs or ASICs or adjunct fixed function features of the processing device itself. It will further be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the GPU may be collocated on the same physical chip or logical device as the central processing units also known as an APU such as found on mobile phones and tablets. Separate GPU and CPU functions may be found on computer server systems where the GPU is a physical expansion card and personal computer systems and laptops. The GPU may comprise a GPU memory . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the host memory and GPU memory may also be collocated on the same physical chip s or logical device such as on an APU.

The processing device may be configured to create an image data buffer based on the decrypted received audio image video or other content data transferred from the image data buffer of the processing device . The decrypted received audio image video or other content data located in the image data buffer may be processed by a pre filtering processor . The pre filtering processor may be configured to transfer processed audio image video or other content data to an encoder and a transmitter for transmission of encrypted audio image video or other content data to a computing platform e.g. the user endpoint over a private network .

In another example the proxy server may be configured to receive encrypted audio image video or other content data from the computer platform e.g. the user endpoint over a private network . A receiver and a decoder may be configured to receive and decrypt respectively the encrypted audio image video or other content data. The decoder may be configured to transfer the decoded audio image video or other content data to a post filter processor of the GPU . The audio image video or other content data may be processed by the post filter processor and further transferred as an image data buffer of the processing device . One or more of the central processing units may be configured to transmit the audio image video or other content data stored in the image data buffer to be encrypted by an encoder and then transmitted by a transmitter over the public network to the user endpoint not shown .

As shown in at block a network operator not shown associated with a network operator server not shown generates one or more root certificates. At block the network operator generates one or more root keys for the one or more root certificates. At block the network operator self signs the one or more first certificates with the corresponding one or more first keys to create one or more certificate authorities e.g. . At block the network operator installs on one or more user endpoints e.g. the endpoint the one or more certificate authorities e.g. to allow access to proxied secured connections. At block the network operator configures the one or more user endpoints e.g. the endpoint to use a proxy server e.g. as the default routing gateway. At block the network operator configures the one or more user endpoints e.g. the endpoint to incorporate or communicate with a post filtering processor e.g. .

At block the network operator installs the one or more certificate authorities e.g. of the user endpoints e.g. on the proxy server e.g. to allow access to proxied secured connections. At block the network operator registers on the proxy server e.g. which certificate authority e.g. is installed on each user endpoint e.g. by using a globally unique identifier for each user endpoint e.g. as a primary key. At block the network operator configures the proxy server e.g. to incorporate or communicate with a media pre filtering processor e.g. to generate pre filtered media audio images or video payloads.

As shown in and at block a proxy server e.g. may receive from a user endpoint e.g. a secure connection request to a second server e.g. . The secure connection request may include a globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint e.g. . In an example prior to receiving the secure connection request to the second server e.g. upon the proxy server e.g. may be installed a first certificate authority e.g. Step of method in . The first certificate authority may also be installed on the user endpoint e.g. . The first certificate authority may be generated using the globally unique identifier. Prior to receiving the secure connection request to the second server e.g. the proxy server e.g. may receive a registration that distinguishes the first certificate authority from other certificate authorities based on the globally unique identifier employed as a primary key.

In an example prior to receiving a first secure connection the proxy server e.g. may receive a configuration to incorporate or communicate with a media pre filtering processor e.g. to generated pre filtered media audio images or video payloads. If at block the proxy server determines that secure connection request should be forwarded to the second server e.g. based on a rule or policy supplied by the network operator not shown then at block a pass through connection may be established wherein the proxy server may forward the secure connection request and all subsequent secure connection session traffic without changes between the user endpoint and the second server e.g. . The rule or policy may be at least predicated on presence of the corresponding one of the certificate authorities e.g. on the user endpoint e.g. information or policy supplied by the network operator or the global identifier registration carried out in method step or lack thereof. At block the proxy server may forward all subsequent responses from the second server e.g. to the user endpoint .

If at block the proxy server e.g. determines that a secured proxy connection should be established then at block the proxy server e.g. may respond to the user endpoint e.g. with an acknowledgement At block the proxy server e.g. may intercept from the user endpoint e.g. a first secure handshake with the second server e.g. . The first secure handshake may comprise the host name of the second server e.g. . At block the proxy server may not forward the first secure handshake to second server e.g. but instead may initiate a second secure handshake with the second server e.g. based on the first secure handshake. The second secure handshake may comprise the host name of the second server . At block the proxy server e.g. may intercept from the second server a second secure handshake response comprising a server certificate with metadata. At block the proxy server e.g. may generate a second certificate using the metadata and signed with the certificate authority e.g. associated with globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint e.g. . At block the proxy server e.g. may transmit to the user endpoint e.g. a modified response to the secure connection request secured with second generated certificate to establish a proxied secure connection.

As shown in and at block the proxy server e.g. may intercept from the user endpoint e.g. a media receive request intended for the second server comprising a payload from the user endpoint e.g. via the proxied secure connection. At block the proxy server e.g. may decrypt the payload of the media receive request using a private key of the second certificate. At block the proxy server e.g. may create a media request to the second server by encrypting the payload with the public key of the server certificate received in . At block the proxy server e.g. may forward the re encrypted payload to the second server .

At block the proxy server e.g. may receive an encrypted media receive response from the second server containing media data encrypted with the second server certificate private key. At block the proxy server e.g. may decrypt the media receive response with the public key of the second server certificate received in to obtain a media receive payload . At block the proxy server e.g. may pass the media receive payload through the media pre filtering processor e.g. of the proxy server e.g. to obtain a pre filtered payload . In one example the proxy server e.g. passing the media receive payload through the media pre filtering processor of the proxy server e.g. may comprise the media pre filtering processor performing at least one of resolution reduction dynamic range reduction frame rate reduction spatial high frequency reduction spatio temporal high frequency reduction entropy coding of protocol headers or DCT or wavelet coefficient re quantization of the media audio images or video payloads.

At block the proxy server e.g. may encrypt the pre filtered payload with the second certificate private key to create a pre filtered media receive response . At block the proxy server e.g. may forward the encrypted pre filtered media receive response to the user endpoint e.g. 

The user endpoint e.g. may decrypt the encrypted pre filtered media receive response with the second certificate public key to obtain a pre filtered media payload . The user endpoint e.g. may pass the pre filtered media payload through post filtering and restoration by the post filtering processor e.g. of the user endpoint e.g. to obtain post filtered media . The user endpoint e.g. may store or render the post filtered media into storage e.g. or a render device e.g. the display . In an example the user endpoint e.g. may pass the pre filtered media payload through post filtering and restoration by the post filtering processor e.g. of the user endpoint e.g. may comprise transrating and other coefficient modifications in the compressed domain. In an example the user endpoint e.g. may pass the pre filtered media payload through post filtering and restoration by the post filtering processor e.g. of the user endpoint e.g. may comprise super resolution or non linear interpolation methods in any of the audio frequency DCT image spatial color gamut or video statio temporal domains.

In one example the proxy server e.g. may communicate the media receive payload to a transcoding or a transrating service using the Internet Content Adaptation Protocol ICAP as disclosed in IETF incorporated herein by reference. In another example the proxy server e.g. may communicate the media receive payload to a transcoding or a transrating service using synchronous or asynchronous application programming interface API calls.

As shown in and at block a proxy server e.g. may receive from a user endpoint e.g. a secure connection request to a second server e.g. . The secure connection request may include a globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint e.g. . In an example prior to receiving the secure connection request to the second server e.g. upon the proxy server e.g. may be installed a first certificate authority e.g. step of method . The first certificate authority may also be installed on the user endpoint e.g. . The first certificate authority may be generated using the globally unique identifier. Prior to receiving the secure connection request to the second server e.g. the proxy server e.g. may receive a registration that distinguishes the first certificate authority from other certificate authorities based on the globally unique identifier employed as a primary key.

In an example prior to receiving a first secure connection the proxy server e.g. may receive a configuration to incorporate or communicate with a media pre filtering processor e.g. to generated pre filtered media audio images or video payloads. If at block the proxy server e.g. determines that secure connection request should be forwarded to the second server e.g. based on a rule or policy supplied by the network operator not shown then at block a pass through connection may be established wherein the proxy server e.g. may forward the secure connection request and all subsequent secure connection session traffic without changes between the user endpoint e.g. and the second server e.g. . The rule or policy may be at least predicated on presence of the corresponding one of the certificate authorities e.g. on the user endpoint e.g. information or policy supplied by the network operator or the global identifier registration carried out in method step or lack thereof. At block the proxy server e.g. may forward all subsequent responses from the second server e.g. to the user endpoint e.g. .

If at block the proxy server e.g. determines that a secured proxy connection should be established then at block the proxy server e.g. may respond to the user endpoint e.g. with an acknowledgement .

At block the proxy server e.g. may intercept from the user endpoint e.g. a first secure handshake with the second server e.g. . The first secure handshake may comprise the host name of the second server e.g. . At block the proxy server e.g. may not forward the first secure handshake to second server e.g. but instead may initiate a second secure handshake with the second server e.g. based on the first secure handshake. The second secure handshake may comprise the host name of the second server e.g. .

At block the proxy server e.g. may intercept from the second server e.g. a second secure handshake response comprising a server certificate with metadata. At block the proxy server e.g. may generate a second certificate using the metadata and signed with the certificate authority e.g. associated with globally unique identifier registered for the endpoint e.g. . At block the proxy server e.g. may transmit to the user endpoint e.g. a modified response to the secure connection request secured with generated second certificate to establish a proxied secure connection.

A camera device or storage device may send a media asset to a pre filtering service to obtain a pre filtered media asset . The pre filtering service may send the media asset to a pre filtering processor e.g. of the user endpoint e.g. that has established a proxied secured connection to the second server . The user endpoint may initiate a media post to the second server with a generated certificate public key.

As shown in and at block the proxy server e.g. may intercept from the user endpoint the media post request comprising a pre filtered media payload to the second server via the proxied secure connection. At block the proxy server e.g. may decrypt the pre filtered payload using a private key of the generated second certificate to obtain the media payload . At block the proxy server e.g. may pass the media payload through a transcoding and post filtering service of a post filtering processor e.g. of the proxy server e.g. to obtain a post filtered media payload. In one example the proxy server e.g. passing the pre filtered media payload through the post filtering processor e.g. may comprise the post filtering processor e.g. performing one or more of super resolution or non linear interpolation methods in any of the audio frequency DCT image spatial color gamut or video statio temporal domains. In an example the proxy server e.g. may communicate the pre filtered media receive payload to the post filtering processor e.g. using the Internet Content Adaptation Protocol ICAP as disclosed in IETF incorporated herein by reference. In an example the proxy server e.g. may communicate the pre filtered media receive payload to the post filtering processor e.g. using synchronous or asynchronous API calls.

At block the proxy server e.g. may encrypt the post filtered media payload with the generated certificate private key to create a second media post request to the second server . At block the proxy server e.g. may forward the encrypted second media post request to the second server .

The example computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processing logic of the user endpoint or the proxy server respectively may be executed by processor configured to perform the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

A drive unit may include a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. instructions of the processing logic of the user endpoint or the proxy server respectively embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions of the processing logic of the user endpoint or the proxy server respectively may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable media. The instructions of the processing logic of the user endpoint or the proxy server respectively may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an example to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single non transitory medium or multiple non transitory media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the above description numerous details are set forth. It is apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that examples of the disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the description.

Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as receiving writing maintaining or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and translates to a new coordinate system the data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Examples of the disclosure also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. The system and method as disclosed herein for the reception and transmission optimization of secured media audio video and image traffic via proxy solves problems in many fields such as improving radio access network spectrum efficiency reduction of backhaul costs cost effective real time reduction of public radio access network congestion when both uploading and downloading audio video and image data from mobile devices and high throughput treatment of secure audio image and video traffic at the distribution network core without compromising endpoint security as but a few non limiting examples.

Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. Example structure for a variety of these systems appears from the description herein. In addition the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the disclosure as described herein.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other examples will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

