---

title: Systems and methods for licensing non-destructive testing content
abstract: A non-transitory computer readable medium may include executable instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor provide for a repository of digital content and to create a first license based on the digital content. The instructions further cause the processor to transmit the first license and the digital content to a non-destructive testing (NDT) device, and wherein the digital content is configured to be executed by, used by, or displayed by the NDT device, or a combination thereof, based on the first license.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436811&OS=09436811&RS=09436811
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09436811
owner_city: Schnectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150202
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 732 293 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR LICENSING NON DESTRUCTIVE TESTING CONTENT filed Dec. 31 2012 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates to non destructive testing NDT systems and particularly to systems and methods for a NDT ecosystem.

Certain equipment and facilities such as power generation equipment and facilities oil and gas equipment and facilities aircraft equipment and facilities manufacturing equipment and facilities and the like include a plurality of interrelated systems and processes. For example power generation plants may include turbine systems and processes for operating and maintaining the turbine systems. Likewise oil and gas operations may include carbonaceous fuel retrieval systems and processing equipment interconnected via pipelines. Similarly aircraft systems may include airplanes and maintenance hangars useful in maintaining airworthiness and providing for maintenance support. During equipment operations the equipment may degrade encounter undesired conditions such as corrosion wear and tear and so on potentially affecting overall equipment effectiveness. Certain inspection techniques such as non destructive inspection techniques or non destructive testing NDT techniques may be used to detect undesired equipment conditions.

In a conventional NDT system data may be shared with other NDT operators or personnel using portable memory devices paper of through the telephone. As such the amount of time to share data between NDT personnel may depend largely on the speed at which the physical portable memory device is physically dispatched to its target. Accordingly it would be beneficial to improve the data sharing capabilities of the NDT system for example to more efficiently test and inspect a variety of systems and equipment.

Certain embodiments commensurate in scope with the originally claimed invention are summarized below. These embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the claimed invention but rather these embodiments are intended only to provide a brief summary of possible forms of the invention. Indeed the invention may encompass a variety of forms that may be similar to or different from the embodiments set forth below.

In one embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium may include executable instructions which when executed by a processor cause the processor provide for a repository of digital content and to create a first license based on the digital content. The instructions further cause the processor to transmit the first license and the digital content to a non destructive testing NDT device and wherein the digital content is configured to be executed by used by or displayed by the NDT device or a combination thereof based on the first license.

In another embodiment a system may include a non destructive testing NDT device comprising a memory and a processor configured to download executable digital content non executable digital content or a combination thereof and to use a license to manage rights of the executable digital content the non executable content or a combination thereof.

In yet another embodiment a method may include providing for a repository of digital content. The method may further include creating a license based on the digital content and transmitting the license and the digital content to a non destructive testing NDT device and wherein the digital content is configured to be executed by used by or displayed by the NDT device based on the license.

One or more specific embodiments will be described below. In an effort to provide a concise description of these embodiments not all features of an actual implementation are described in the specification. It should be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation as in any engineering or design project numerous implementation specific decisions must be made to achieve the developers specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which may vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it should be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of design fabrication and manufacture for those of ordinary skill having the benefit of this disclosure.

When introducing elements of various embodiments of the present invention the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may apply to a variety of inspection and testing techniques including non destructive testing NDT or inspection systems. In the NDT system certain techniques such as borescopic inspection weld inspection remote visual inspections x ray inspection ultrasonic inspection eddy current inspection and the like may be used to analyze and detect a variety of conditions including but not limited to corrosion equipment wear and tear cracking leaks and so on. The techniques described herein provide for improved NDT systems suitable for borescopic inspection remote visual inspections e.g. inspections using remotely operated vehicles x ray inspection ultrasonic inspection and or eddy current inspection enabling enhanced data gathering data analysis data storage archiving inspection testing processes and NDT collaboration techniques.

The improved NDT systems described herein may include inspection equipment using wired or wireless conduits suitable for communicatively coupling the inspection equipment to mobile devices such as tablets smart phones and augmented reality eyeglasses to computing devices such as notebooks laptops workstations personal computers and to cloud computing systems such as cloud based NDT ecosystems cloud analytics cloud based collaboration and workflow systems distributed computing systems expert systems and or knowledge based systems. Indeed the techniques described herein may provide for enhanced NDT data gathering analysis and data distribution thus improving the detection of undesired conditions enhancing maintenance activities and increasing returns on investment ROI of facilities and equipment.

In one embodiment a tablet may be communicatively coupled to the NDT inspection device e.g. borescope transportable pan tilt zoom camera eddy current device x ray inspection device ultrasonic inspection device such as a MENTOR NDT inspection device available from General Electric Co. of Schenectady N.Y. and used to provide for example enhanced wireless display capabilities remote control data analytics and or data communications to the NDT inspection device. While other mobile devices may be used the use of the tablet is apt however insofar as the tablet may provide for a larger higher resolution display more powerful processing cores an increased memory and improved battery life. Using a tablet or other like device also allows for 3party development using available toolkits. For example running data through a tablet opens us up to exchange information with 3party developers developing on that same platform or operating system OS . Accordingly the tablet may address certain issues such as providing for improved visualization of data improving the manipulatory control of the inspection device and extending collaborative sharing to a plurality of external systems and entities.

Keeping the foregoing in mind the present disclosure is directed towards sharing data acquired from the NDT system control of applications and or devices in the NDT system and data archiving storage. Generally data generated from the NDT system may be automatically distributed to various people or groups of people using techniques disclosed herein. Moreover content displayed by an application used to monitor and or control devices in the NDT system may be shared between individuals to create a virtual collaborative environment for monitoring and controlling the devices in the NDT system.

By way of introduction and turning now to the figure is a block diagram of an embodiment of distributed NDT system . In the depicted embodiment the distributed NDT system may include one or more NDT inspection devices . The NDT inspection devices may be divided into at least two categories. In one category depicted in the NDT inspection devices may include devices suitable for visually inspecting a variety of equipment and environments. In another category described in more detail with respect to below the NDT devices may include devices providing for alternatives to visual inspection modalities such as x ray inspection modalities eddy current inspection modalities and or ultrasonic inspection modalities.

In the depicted first example category of the NDT inspection devices may include a borescope having one or more processors and a memory and a transportable pan tilt zoom PTZ camera having one or more processors and a memory . In this first category of visual inspection devices the bore scope and PTZ camera may be used to inspect for example a turbo machinery and a facility or site . As illustrated the bore scope and the PTZ camera may be communicatively coupled to a mobile device also having one or more processors and a memory . The mobile device may include for example a tablet a cell phone e.g. smart phone a notebook a laptop or any other mobile computing device. The use of a tablet however is apt insofar as the tablet provides for a good balance between screen size weight computing power and battery life. Accordingly in one embodiment the mobile device may be the tablet mentioned above available from General Electric Co. of Schenectady N.Y. and providing for touchscreen input. The mobile device may be communicatively coupled to the NDT inspection devices such as the bore scope and or the PTZ camera through a variety of wireless or wired conduits. For example the wireless conduits may include WiFi e.g. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11X cellular conduits e.g. high speed packet access HSPA HSPA long term evolution LTE WiMax near field communications NFC Bluetooth personal area networks PANs and the like. The wireless conduits may use a variety of communication protocols such as TCP IP UDP SCTP socket layers and so on. In certain embodiments the wireless or wired conduits may include secure layers such as secure socket layers SSL virtual private network VPN layers encrypted layers challenge key authentication layers token authentication layers and so on. Wired conduits may include proprietary cabling RJ45 cabling co axial cables fiber optic cables and so on.

Additionally or alternatively the mobile device may be communicatively coupled to the NDT inspection devices such as the borescope and or the PTZ camera through the cloud . Indeed the mobile device may use the cloud computing and communications techniques e.g. cloud computing network including but not limited to HTTP HTTPS TCP IP service oriented architecture SOA protocols e.g. simple object access protocol SOAP web services description languages WSDLs to interface with the NDT inspection devices from any geographic location including geographic locations remote from the physical location about to undergo inspection. Further in one embodiment the mobile device may provide hot spot functionality in which mobile device may provide wireless access point WAP functionality suitable for connecting the NDT inspection devices to other systems in the cloud . Accordingly collaboration may be enhanced by providing for multi party workflows data gathering and data analysis.

For example a borescope operator may physically manipulate the borescope at one location while a mobile device operator may use the mobile device to interface with and physically manipulate the bore scope at a second location through remote control techniques. The second location may be proximate to the first location or geographically distant from the first location. Likewise a camera operator may physically operate the PTZ camera at a third location and the mobile device operator may remote control PTZ camera at a fourth location by using the mobile device . The fourth location may be proximate to the third location or geographically distant from the third location. Any and all control actions performed by the operators and may be additionally performed by the operator through the mobile device . Additionally the operator may communicate with the operators and or by using the devices and through techniques such as voice over IP VOIP virtual whiteboarding text messages and the like. By providing for remote collaboration techniques between the operator operator and operator the techniques described herein may provide for enhanced workflows and increase resource efficiencies. Indeed nondestructive testing processes may leverage the communicative coupling of the cloud with the mobile device the NDT inspection devices and external systems coupled to the cloud .

In one mode of operation the mobile device may be operated by the bore scope operator and or the camera operator to leverage for example a larger screen display more powerful data processing as well as a variety of interface techniques provided by the mobile device as described in more detail below. Indeed the mobile device may be operated alongside or in tandem with the devices and by the respective operators and . This enhanced flexibility provides for better utilization of resources including human resources and improved inspection results.

Whether controlled by the operator and or the borescope and or PTZ camera may be used to visually inspect a wide variety of equipment and facilities. For example the bore scope may be inserted into a plurality of borescope ports and other locations of the turbomachinery to provide for illumination and visual observations of a number of components of the turbomachinery . In the depicted embodiment the turbo machinery is illustrated as a gas turbine suitable for converting carbonaceous fuel into mechanical power. However other equipment types may be inspected including compressors pumps turbo expanders wind turbines hydroturbines industrial equipment and or residential equipment. The turbomachinery e.g. gas turbine may include a variety of components that may be inspected by the NDT inspection devices described herein.

With the foregoing in mind it may be beneficial to discuss certain turbomachinery components that may be inspected by using the embodiments disclosed herein. For example certain components of the turbomachinery depicted in may be inspected for corrosion erosion cracking leaks weld inspection and so on. Mechanical systems such as the turbomachinery experience mechanical and thermal stresses during operating conditions which may require periodic inspection of certain components. During operations of the turbomachinery a fuel such as natural gas or syngas may be routed to the turbomachinery through one or more fuel nozzles into a combustor . Air may enter the turbomachinery through an air intake section and may be compressed by a compressor . The compressor may include a series of stages and that compress the air. Each stage may include one or more sets of stationary vanes and blades that rotate to progressively increase the pressure to provide compressed air. The blades may be attached to rotating wheels connected to a shaft . The compressed discharge air from the compressor may exit the compressor through a diffuser section and may be directed into the combustor to mix with the fuel. For example the fuel nozzles may inject a fuel air mixture into the combustor in a suitable ratio for optimal combustion emissions fuel consumption and power output. In certain embodiments the turbomachinery may include multiple combustors disposed in an annular arrangement. Each combustor may direct hot combustion gases into a turbine .

As depicted the turbine includes three separate stages and surrounded by a casing . Each stage and includes a set of blades or buckets coupled to a respective rotor wheel and which are attached to a shaft . As the hot combustion gases cause rotation of turbine blades the shaft rotates to drive the compressor and any other suitable load such as an electrical generator. Eventually the turbomachinery diffuses and exhausts the combustion gases through an exhaust section . Turbine components such as the nozzles intake compressor vanes blades wheels shaft diffuser stages and blades shaft casing and exhaust may use the disclosed embodiments such as the NDT inspection devices to inspect and maintain said components.

Additionally or alternatively the PTZ camera may be disposed at various locations around or inside of the turbo machinery and used to procure visual observations of these locations. The PTZ camera may additionally include one or more lights suitable for illuminating desired locations and may further include zoom pan and tilt techniques described in more detail below with respect to useful for deriving observations around in a variety of difficult to reach areas. The borescope and or the camera may be additionally used to inspect the facilities such as an oil and gas facility . Various equipment such as oil and gas equipment may be inspected visually by using the borescope and or the PTZ camera . Advantageously locations such as the interior of pipes or conduits underwater or underfluid locations and difficult to observe locations such as locations having curves or bends may be visually inspected by using the mobile device through the borescope and or PTZ camera . Accordingly the mobile device operator may more safely and efficiently inspect the equipment and locations and and share observations in real time or near real time with location geographically distant from the inspection areas. It is to be understood that other NDT inspection devices may be use the embodiments described herein such as fiberscopes e.g. articulating fiberscope non articulating fiberscope and remotely operated vehicles ROVs including robotic pipe inspectors and robotic crawlers.

Turning now to the figure is a block diagram of an embodiment of the distributed NDT system depicting the second category of NDT inspection devices that may be able to provide for alternative inspection data to visual inspection data. For example the second category of NDT inspection devices may include an eddy current inspection device an ultrasonic inspection device such as an ultrasonic flaw detector and an x ray inspection device such a digital radiography device . The eddy current inspection device may include one or more processors and a memory . Likewise the ultrasonic flaw detector may include one or more processors and a memory . Similarly the digital radiography device may include one or more processors and a memory . In operations the eddy current inspection device may be operated by an eddy current operator the ultrasonic flaw detector may be operated by an ultrasonic device operator and the digital radiography device may be operated by a radiography operator .

As depicted the eddy current inspection device the ultrasonic flaw detector and the digital radiography inspection device may be communicatively coupled to the mobile device by using wired or wireless conduits including the conduits mentioned above with respect to . Additionally or alternatively the devices and may be coupled to the mobile device by using the cloud for example the borescope may be connected to a cellular hotspot and use the hotspot to connect to one or more experts in borescopic inspection and analysis. Additionally or alternatively the NDT device may include for example cellular technology suitable for communication through cell networks. Accordingly the mobile device operator may remotely control various aspects of operations of the devices and by using the mobile device and may collaborate with the operators and through voice e.g. voice over IP VOID data sharing e.g. whiteboarding providing data analytics expert support and the like as described in more detail herein.

Accordingly it may be possible to enhance the visual observation of various equipment such as an aircraft system and facilities with x ray observation modalities ultrasonic observation modalities and or eddy current observation modalities. For example the interior and the walls of pipes may be inspected for corrosion and or erosion. Likewise obstructions or undesired growth inside of the pipes may be detected by using the devices and or . Similarly fissures or cracks disposed inside of certain ferrous or non ferrous material may be observed. Additionally the disposition and viability of parts inserted inside of a component may be verified. Indeed by using the techniques described herein improved inspection of equipment and components and may be provided. For example the mobile device may be used to interface with and provide remote control of the devices and .

As depicted the borescope includes an insertion tube suitable for insertion into a variety of location such as inside of the turbomachinery equipment pipes or conduits underwater locations curves or bends varies locations inside or outside of the aircraft system the interior of pipe and so on. The insertion tube may include a head end section an articulating section and a conduit section . In the depicted embodiment the head end section may include a camera one or more lights e.g. LEDs and sensors . As mentioned above the borescope s camera may provide images and video suitable for inspection. The lights may be used to provide for illumination when the head end is disposed in locations having low light or no light. In other embodiments fiber optics may be used to transfer light from a source to the tip of the borescope . The light source may include an arc lamp LEDs in handsets LEDs in probe pods sent to probe tips and so on.

During use the articulating section may be controlled for example by the mobile device and or a physical joy stick disposed on the borescope . The articulating sections may steer or bend in various dimensions. For example the articulation section may enable movement of the head end in an X Y plane X Z plane and or Y Z plane of the depicted XYZ axes . Indeed the physical joystick and or the mobile device may both be used alone or in combination to provide control actions suitable for disposing the head end at a variety of angles such as the depicted angle . In this manner the borescope head end may be positioned to visually inspect desired locations. The camera may then capture for example a video which may be displayed in a screen of the borescope and a screen of the mobile device and may be recorded by the borescope and or the mobile device . In one embodiment the screens and may be multi touchscreens using capacitance techniques resistive techniques infrared grid techniques and the like to detect the touch of a stylus and or one or more human fingers. Additionally or alternatively images and the video may be transmitted into the cloud .

Other data including but not limited to sensor data may additionally be communicated and or recorded by the borescope . The sensor data may include temperature data distance data clearance data e.g. distance between a rotating and a stationary component flow data and so on. In certain embodiments the borescope may include a plurality of replacement tips . For example the replacement tips may include retrieval tips such as snares magnetic tips gripper tips and the like. The replacement tips may additionally include cleaning and obstruction removal tools such as wire brushes wire cutters and the like. The tips may additionally include tips having differing optical characteristics such as focal length stereoscopic views 3 dimensional 3D phase views shadow views and so on. Additionally or alternatively the head end may include a removable and replaceable head end . Accordingly a plurality of head ends may be provided at a variety of diameters and the insertion tube may be disposed in a number of locations having openings from approximately one millimeter to ten millimeters or more. Indeed a wide variety of equipment and facilities may be inspected and the data may be shared through the mobile device and or the cloud .

The PTZ camera may be transported to a desired location for example by using a shaft . The shaft enables the camera operator to move the camera and to position the camera for example inside of locations underwater into hazardous e.g. hazmat locations and so on. Additionally the shaft may be used to more permanently secure the PTZ camera by mounting the shaft onto a permanent or semi permanent mount. In this manner the PTZ camera may be transported and or secured at a desired location. The PTZ camera may then transmit for example by using wireless techniques image data video data sensor data and the like to the mobile device and or cloud . Accordingly data received from the PTZ camera may be remotely analyzed and used to determine the condition and suitability of operations for desired equipment and facilities. Indeed the techniques described herein may provide for a comprehensive inspection and maintenance process suitable for planning inspecting analyzing and or sharing a variety of data by using the aforementioned devices and the cloud as described in more detail below with respect to .

In one example the process may plan block for inspection and maintenance activities. Data acquired by using the devices an others such as fleet data e.g. fuel composition data flow data temperature data clearance data between a stationary and a rotary component vibration data speed data and more generally sensor data acquired from a fleet of turbomachinery from equipment users e.g. aircraft service companies and or equipment manufacturers may be used to plan block maintenance and inspection activities more efficient inspection schedules for machinery flag certain areas for a more detailed inspection and so on. The process may then enable the use of a single mode or a multi modal inspection block of desired facilities and equipment e.g. turbomachinery . As mentioned above the inspection block may use any one or more of the NDT inspection devices e.g. borescope PTZ camera eddy current inspection device ultrasonic flaw detector digital radiography device thus providing with one or more modes of inspection e.g. visual ultrasonic eddy current x ray . In the depicted embodiment the mobile device may be used to remote control the NDT inspection devices to analyze data communicated by the NDT inspection devices to provide for additional functionality not included in the NDT inspection devices as described in more detail herein to record data from the NDT inspection devices and to guide the inspection block for example by using menu driven or menu directed inspection MDI techniques among others.

Results of the inspection block may then be analyzed block for example by using the NDT device by transmitting inspection data to the cloud by using the mobile device or a combination thereof. The analysis may include engineering analysis useful in determining remaining life for the facilities and or equipment wear and tear corrosion erosion and so forth. The analysis may additionally include operations research OR analysis used to provide for more efficient parts replacement schedules maintenance schedules equipment utilization schedules personnel usage schedules new inspection schedules and so on. The analysis block may then be reported block resulting in one or more reports including reports created in or by using the cloud detailing the inspection and analysis performed and results obtained. The reports may then be shared block for example by using the cloud the mobile device and other techniques such as workflow sharing techniques. In one embodiment the process may be iterative thus the process may iterate back to planning block after the sharing block of the reports . As an iterative process the analyze block and report block may inform the planning block . By providing for embodiments useful in using the devices e.g. described herein to plan inspect analyze report and share data the techniques described herein may enable a more efficient inspection and maintenance of the facilities and the equipment . Indeed the transfer of multiple categories of data may be provided as described in more detail below with respect to .

In certain modalities e.g. visual modalities images and video may be communicated by using some or all of the NDT inspection devices . Other modalities may also send video sensor data and so on related to or included in their respective screens. The NDT inspection device may in addition to capturing images overlay certain data onto the image resulting in a more informative view. For example a borescope tip map may be overlaid on the video showing an approximation of the disposition of a borescope tip during insertion so as to guide the operator to more accurately position the borescope camera . The overlay tip map may include a grid having four quadrants and the tip disposition may be displayed as dot in any portion or position inside of the four quadrants. A variety of overlays may be provided as described in more detail below including measurement overlays menu overlays annotation overlays and object identification overlays. The image and video data such as the video may then be displayed with the overlays generally displayed on top of the image and video data.

In one embodiment the overlays image and video data may be screen scraped from the screen and communicated as screen scrapping data . The screen scrapping data may then be displayed on the mobile device and other display devices communicatively coupled to the cloud . Advantageously the screen scrapping data may be more easily displayed. Indeed because pixels may include both the image or video and overlays in the same frame the mobile device may simply display the aforementioned pixels. However providing the screen scraping data may merge both the images with the overlays and it may be beneficial to separate the two or more data streams. For example the separate data streams e.g. image or video stream overlay stream may be transmitted approximately simultaneously thus providing for faster data communications. Additionally the data streams may be analyzed separately thus improving data inspection and analysis.

Accordingly in one embodiment the image data and overlays may be separated into two or more data streams and . The data stream may include only overlays while the data stream may include images or video. In one embodiment the images or video may be synchronized with the overlays by using a synchronization signal . For example the synchronization signal may include timing data suitable to match a frame of the data stream with one or more data items included in the overlay stream . In yet another embodiment no synchronization data data may be used. Instead each frame or image may include a unique ID and this unique ID may be matched to one or more of the overlay data and used to display the overlay data and the image data together.

The overlay data may include a tip map overlay. For example a grid having four squares e.g. quadrant grid may be displayed along with a dot or circle representing a tip position. This tip map may thus represent how the tip is being inserted inside of an object. A first quadrant top right may represent the tip being inserted into a top right corner looking down axially into the object a second quadrant top left may represent the tip being inserted into a left right corner looking down axially a third quadrant bottom left may represent the tip being inserted into a bottom left corner and a fourth quadrant bottom right may represent the tip being inserted into a bottom right corner. Accordingly the borescope operator may more easily guide insertion of the tip . In one embodiment the tip map may indicate tip position using x y servo positions. For example if a probe was laid out on a flat surface pressing up on a physical joystick would result in the probe head moving up as well as the tip map indicating that the probe was in the up position. This is all relative as while inside an asset for example a gas turbine the probe itself will be rotated and the tip map may not have this understanding.

The overlay data may also include measurement overlays. For example measurement such as length point to line depth area multi segment line distance skew and circle gauge may be provided by enabling the user to overlay one or more cursor crosses e.g. on top of an image. In one embodiment a stereo probe measurement tip or a shadow probe measurement tip may be provided suitable for measurements inside of objects including 3D phase measurements stereoscopic measurements and or by projecting a shadow onto an object. By placing a plurality of cursor icons e.g. cursor crosses over an image the measurements may be derived using stereoscopic techniques. For example placing two cursors icons may provide for a linear point to point measurement e.g. length . Placing three cursor icons may provide for a perpendicular distance from a point to a line e.g. point to line . Placing four cursor icons may provide for a perpendicular distance between a surface derived by using three cursors and a point the fourth cursor above or below the surface e.g. depth . Placing three or more cursors around a feature or defect may then give an approximate area of the surface contained inside the cursors. Placing three or more cursors may also enable a length of a multi segment line following each cursor.

Likewise by projecting a shadow the measurements may be derived based on illumination and resulting shadows. Accordingly by positioning the shadow across the measurement area then placing two cursors as close as possible to the shadow at furthermost points of a desired measurement may result in the derivation of the distance between the points. Placing the shadow across the measurement area and then placing cursors at edges e.g. illuminated edges of the desired measurement area approximately to the center of a horizontal shadow may result in a skew measurement otherwise defined as a linear point to point measurement on a surface that is not perpendicular to the probe view. This may be useful when a vertical shadow is not obtainable.

Similarly positioning a shadow across the measurement area and then placing one cursor on a raised surface and a second cursor on a recessed surface may result in the derivation of depth or a distance between a surface and a point above or below the surface. Positioning the shadow near the measurement area and then placing a circle e.g. circle cursor of user selectable diameter also referred to as circle gauge close to the shadow and over a defect may then derive the approximate diameter circumference and or area of the defect. 3D phase measurements may be obtained by using a single probe tip to provide for 3D surface scans and no tip change may be used. In effect the 3D phase measurement may provide more accurate measurement on demand by eliminating the need to change the probe tip to capture the measurement streamlining the inspection process.

Overlay data may also include annotation data. For example text and graphics e.g. arrow pointers crosses geometric shapes may be overlaid on top of an image to annotate certain features such as surface crack. Additionally audio may be captured by the NDT inspection device and provided as an audio overlay. For example a voice annotation sounds of the equipment undergoing inspection and so on may be overlaid on an image or video as audio. The overlay data received by the mobile device and or cloud may then be rendered by a variety of techniques. For example HTML5 or other markup languages may be used to display the overlay data . In one embodiment the mobile device and or cloud may provide for a first user interface different from a second user interface provided by the NDT device . Accordingly the overlay data may be simplified and only send basic information. For example in the case of the tip map the overlay data may simply include X and Y data correlative to the location of the tip and the first user interface may then use the X and Y data to visually display the tip on a grid.

Additionally sensor data may be communicated. For example data from the sensors and x ray sensor data eddy current sensor data and the like may be communicated. In certain embodiments the sensor data may be synchronized with the overlay data for example overlay tip maps may be displayed alongside with temperature information pressure information flow information clearance and so on. Likewise the sensor data may be displayed alongside the image or video data .

In certain embodiments force feedback or haptic feedback data may be communicated. The force feedback data may include for example data related to the borescope tip abutting or contacting against a structure vibrations felt by the tip or vibration sensors force related to flows temperatures clearances pressures and the like. The mobile device may include for example a tactile layer having fluid filled microchannels which based on the force feedback data may alter fluid pressure and or redirect fluid in response. Indeed the techniques describe herein may provide for responses actuated by the mobile device suitable for representing sensor data and other data in the conduit as tactile forces.

The NDT devices may additionally communicate position data . For example the position data may include locations of the NDT devices in relation to equipment and or facilities . For example techniques such as indoor GPS RFID triangulation e.g. WiFi triangulation radio triangulation may be used to determine the position of the devices . Object data may include data related to the object under inspection. For example the object data may include identifying information e.g. serial numbers observations on equipment condition annotations textual annotations voice annotations and so on. Other types of data may be used including but not limited to menu driven inspection or menu directed inspection data which when used provides a set of pre defined tags that can be applied as text annotations and metadata. These tags may include location information e.g. 1stage HP compressor or indications e.g. foreign object damage related to the object undergoing inspection. Other data may additionally include remote file system data in which the mobile device may view and manipulate files and file constructs e.g. folders subfolders of data located in the memory of the NDT inspection device or in media coupled to the NDT device or disposed inside the NDT device such as secure digital SD cards thumb drives USB hard drives and the like. Accordingly files may be transferred to the mobile device and cloud edited and transferred back into the memory . By communicating the data to the mobile device and the cloud the techniques described herein may enable a faster and more efficient process . By communicating the data to the mobile device and the cloud the techniques described herein may enable a faster and more efficient process . Indeed the transfer of multiple categories of data may be provided as described in more detail below with respect to .

Turning now to the figure is a data flow diagram illustrating an embodiment of the flow of various data categories originating from the mobile device devices inside the cloud and or devices communicatively connected to the cloud e.g. computing system and directed for example towards the NDT inspection devices e.g. borescope PTZ camera eddy current inspection device ultrasonic flaw detector digital radiography device . Such data may include control data suitable for controlling the NDT device. As described herein the control of the NDT inspection devices includes both control of positioning apparatus such as the articulating section of the borescope apparatus used to pan tilt and zoom the PTZ camera as well as the remote control of file systems in the NDT devices screen s included in the NDT devices and the setting of parameters used to operate or to configure the NDT devices as described in more detail below.

In the depicted embodiment a wireless conduit may be used to communicate the data e.g. control data to the NDT devices . Similar to the conduit the wireless conduit in certain embodiments may include WiFi e.g. 802.11X cellular conduits e.g. HSPA HSPA LTE WiMax NFC Bluetooth PANs and the like. The wireless conduit may use a variety of communication protocols such as TCP IP UDP SCTP socket layers and so on. In certain embodiments the wireless conduit may include secure layers such as SSL VPN layers encrypted layers challenge key authentication layers token authentication layers and so on. It is to be noted that in other embodiments wired conduits may be used alternative to or in lieu of the wireless conduits .

Authorization data may be communicated and used for example in conjunction with the authorization data to enable secure access to the NDT devices . A variety of secure authentication techniques may be used including but not limited to login password combinations maintaining a list of secure MAC addresses challenge response authentication between two or more of the devices and cloud secure NFC authentication using a third party authentication server e.g. by using certificate authentication key exchange authentication and so on.

Position control data may additionally be communicated useful to move or otherwise position components of the NDT devices . Indeed certain components of the NDT devices may be physically moved remotely by using for example a virtual joystick. Any number of systems e.g. mobile devices computing systems web based virtual controllers such as devices connected to the NDT devices locally e.g. WiFi Bluetooth and or via the cloud may be used to remotely communicate the data and used to remotely position components of the NDT devices .

Advantageously a variety of remote operations training and collaboration may be enabled. For example an expert operator may train a new borescope operator on the job. The new borescope operator may hold the borescope and observe while the expert operator controls the borescope by using the mobile device . The expert operator may then point out tip control techniques relate what type of observations are correlative to corrosion show how to make annotations and so on. In other cases the expert operator may be located at a different geographic location and may collaborate and or train the new borescope operator by the use of VOIP whiteboarding and the like or may use the mobile device to perform a full inspection remotely. In another training example the new borescope operator may be using the mobile device and or borescope and receive training from remote locations such as web based locations. For example the screen of the mobile device may be portioned into multiple viewing areas e.g. splitscreens so that one viewing area shows borescope images or video while a second viewing area shows a training video and a third area shows an online equipment manual procured wirelessly. Indeed the boresecope may receive data including targeted multimedia inspection data from external sources e.g. mobile device cloud computing system .

Additionally fine control data may be communicated. For example jogging data suitable for moving the borescope s articulating section and or the PTZ camera at smaller increments than the position control data . More specifically the fine control data may include a step to move e.g. 0.5 mm between 0.05 mm and 1 cm or more and a number of steps to move e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 or more . Accordingly components of the NDT device may be more precisely disposed to better observe certain features undergoing inspection. The position control data and fine control data may be produced by virtual controllers or physical controllers communicatively connected to the NDT devices .

Images video text and or audio data may be additionally communicated. For example the mobile device the cloud and or devices coupled to the cloud e.g. computing system may send images and or video as well as overlay annotations useful in illustrating to the borescope operator certain features to inspect further along with audio detailing explanations of how to proceed with the inspection. In certain embodiments the data may be training data useful in detailing inspection procedures. In other embodiment the data may include data transmitted from experts detailing instructions on how to more thoroughly inspect certain equipment. In yet another embodiment the data may include data sent through automated entities e.g. expert systems fuzzy logic systems neural network systems state vector machines based on received data from useful in directing and or focusing the inspection after automatically analyzing the received data.

Configuration data may also be communicated. For example data used to update file systems included in the NDT devices to reprogram the NDT devices to set parameters useful in operating the NDT devices and or to reconfigure electronic components of the device e.g. flash upgrade may be sent to the NDT inspection devices remotely. Indeed programming and parameter setting may be done remotely thus providing for techniques to more easily maintain the NDT devices up to date and to improve device operations. It is to be understood that different NDT devices may use different parameter sets. As a non limiting example only some parameters e.g. used during operations of the NDT device and useful to remote control the NDT devices may include parameters for starting acquisition of data stopping acquisition of data saving a file naming or renaming a file adjusting a gain adjusting a time base compensating for lift off zeroing signal during eddy current inspection adjusting phase rotation adjusting persistence balancing a probe adjusting gate e.g. amplitude adjustment position adjustment adjusting color palette soft gain changing signal rectification changing pulser filter zooming in and out adjusting a pulse width adjusting a data filter e.g. bandwidth adjusting pulse repetition frequency adjusting sweep angle start stop adjusting sweep angle increment turning channels on off freezing data clearing erasing data adjusting span adjusting filters changing spot positions changing display types e.g. spot display timebase display waterfall display and or changing channel views.

In one embodiment client server techniques such as virtual network computing VNC remote desktop protocol RDP desktop sharing among others may be used to send configuration data and receive data correlative with screen control of the NDT devices . Likewise remote file system control may be provided by using techniques such as secure file transfer protocol ftp ftp over secure shell SSH remote file sharing RFS and or distributed file systems e.g. using the cloud to store and retrieve files through the NDT devices . Files may be added renamed deleted and or updated. Likewise file folders and other file storage structures may be similarly renamed deleted and or updated.

Force feedback data may additionally be communicated. For example a more forceful push onto the mobile device s touchscreen may translate into data useful in moving the borescope s articulating section more quickly. Likewise a haptic controller may be coupled to the computing device and provide the force feedback data. The more force applied the faster the correlative movement of components such as the articulating section of the borescope . It is to be noted that force feedback data may be provided by other devices such as the physical joystick a virtual joystick haptic controllers wirelessly coupled to the NDT devices including controllers coupled through the cloud or mobile device e.g. when the mobile device is providing for WAP functionality . Other data may include updated digital manuals or help manuals useful in operating the NDT devices manuals relating to the equipment e.g. turbomachinery aircraft undergoing inspection and so on. Accordingly the wireless conduit would be used to communicate and to change or otherwise modify NDT device information such as borescope specific information including but not limited to measurement information cursor placement measurements stereo matches MDI information current stage asset information reference material current menu selections tip temperatures pressures tip orientation tip map artificial horizon 3 dimensional phase measurement 3DPM range indication text annotation and so on. Software control applications may render native graphics with touchscreen buttons or softkey labels as described in more detail below and if appropriate accept user input. Hard physical buttons with either fixed or dynamic functionality can also be used to accept input. It is to be noted that the NDT device may be controlled by a first entity or more than one remote entities at the same time as the NDT device is used by a second entity. Indeed the control embodiments described herein enable multiple parties to control the device at the same time including multiple remote parties. is illustrative of an embodiment of a NDT ecosystem useful in providing for a collaboratory environment between for example the NDT device the mobile device the computing system an asset owner an inspection solution provider equipment manufacturer regulatory entities other entities an asset original equipment manufacturer OEM asset inspection providers and or application developers . The NDT ecosystem or portions of the NDT ecosystem may be implemented by executable computer instructions stored in a memory and executed by a processor . The memory and processor may be included in a system inside the cloud or connected to the cloud including but not limited to computing servers virtual machines load balanced computing devices and the like.

In the depicted embodiment the asset owner may include the owner or lessee of equipment and facility assets such as turbomachinery aircraft and or facilities . The inspection solution provider may include a company or entity that develops software and hardware e.g. manufactures equipment such as the NDT devices useful in performing the process or components of the process including the inspection . Regulatory entities may include state and federal agencies that regulate all or portions of the process . Other entities may include entities providing cloud computing services such as entities providing connectivity services e.g. wired and or wireless connectivity backend computing services e.g. cloud based computer processing services grid computing services cluster computing services supercomputing services and or cloud based storage services . The asset OEM includes the manufacturer of the aforementioned equipment and facilities assets. The asset inspection providers include entities that provide for example personnel and equipment used in the inspection .

Application developers include any entity including but not limited to the aforementioned entities that may write digital content including computer executable content e.g. mobile applications web applications desktop applications device drivers firmware configuration files and configuration related files and or non executable content e.g. equipment manuals inspection procedures training procedures regulatory documents regulatory procedures audio video text multimedia interactive computer simulations and so on . The digital content may be stored in a repository e.g. database included in the NDT ecosystem and used executed and or displayed by the devices and or . Additionally or alternatively the digital content may reside in the cloud or systems coupled to the cloud and the NDT devices may use the digital content in the cloud or in system coupled to the cloud . That is the digital content may reside in the cloud and the NDT devices may connect and execute display or otherwise use the content by using the cloud . The applications may include applications executable by the NDT device the mobile device the computing system executable in the cloud or a combination thereof. Likewise non executable content may be viewable by using the NDT device the mobile device and the computing system . Accordingly collaboration by using the NDT ecosystem may involve inception of an idea for the NDT digital content and the creation distribution purchase management and revenue sharing of the NDT digital content .

For example the inspection solution provider may create digital content e.g. applications and hardware solutions to support the digital content . The applications and other digital content may be created and tested by using a digital content builder described in more detail below. These applications may then be executed on the NDT devices mobile device and or computing system to support the process including the planning inspection analysis reporting and or sharing . It is to be noted that the digital content including applications may be constructed by any of the entities and by third parties and so on and distributed for example by using digital content stores . The digital content stores may include public stores private stores and other stores . The public stores may include stores accessible by all entities and while the private stores may include stores that are accessible only to a subset of each of the entities and of a subset of all of the entities and e.g. entities or others vetted by the store creator . The other stores may include hybrid stores e.g. semi private stores where certain items are sold to the public while other items are sold only to vetted customers. For example all public content may be sold and certain private content an entity is granted access to may also be sold. Other stores may additionally or alternatively include stores that cater to entities that have received governmental approval to buy and sell government restricted items such as export control items. By providing for the creation and distribution of a variety of digital content by entities having a variety of expertise the NDT ecosystem may provide for enhanced collaboration and a more efficient process .

Continuing with the digital content may additionally include certain platform capabilities such as application programming interfaces APIs interfaces to data analysis services hardware interfaces e.g. software interfaces to the hardware of the NDT devices and the like. Similar platform capabilities may be alternatively or additionally provided by the other systems and used to provide services such as data storage and data analysis services. The inspection solution provider may also provide techniques suitable for upgrading platform capabilities for example of the devices either by using software or by using certain hardware e.g. WIFI modules used to retrofit previous models of the NDT devices or a combination thereof. For example the inspection solution provider may create software applications and other content suitable for use execution and or display in the devices and and place the content for example in the digital stores or in other distribution channels. Other techniques including automatic updating of digital content on NDT devices the management of software and hardware assets the more efficient purchasing and revenue sharing of digital content and improved techniques for maintaining user profiles may be provided by using the techniques described herein such as the NDT ecosystem .

The application content developers may create the applications and other digital content e.g. firmware platform APIs platform support software executable or displayable by the NDT devices using for example the digital content builder software . Indeed a role of the application developers may include building NDT applications for specific NDT inspections and or NDT devices . In certain embodiments the NDT applications may be developed using the digital content builder . The digital content building software may include language compilers interpreters emulators e.g. NDT device emulators debugging features graphical user interface GUI builders database connectivity builders and the like useful in creating the executable content and the non executable content . Additionally the digital content building software may include tie ins to external systems including knowledge based systems e.g. expert systems expert reasoning systems fuzzy logic systems heuristic reasoning systems which may include canned human expert knowledge and experience useful in developing the digital content .

Once the digital content has been developed including applications training manuals user manuals and other associated documents the application developers may upload the digital content for distribution by the digital stores . In the depicted embodiment an automated authentication system may check for the authenticity of the digital content and may ensure that the digital content conforms to the publishing guidelines published for example by the inspection solution provider . Additionally the digital content may be processed by a security certificate system suitable for example for creating digital certificates for interacting with third party certificate authorities for encrypting the digital content and more generally for providing secure access to the NDT ecosystem .

As mentioned above all of the entities and may create digital content . For example the asset OEM or other parties can publish inspection manuals inspection procedures training manuals training procedures multimedia content interactive computer simulations video software applications and the like through the NDT Application ecosystem . Indeed all entities and may create and publish similar digital content. Accordingly the asset owner and or asset inspection providers may purchase the digital content created by the asset OEM inspection solution provider regulatory entities and or other entities and subscribe to updated content as described in more detail below to receive updated content . The asset inspection providers may create digital content such as inspection of assets training content or may sell inspection services through the digital stores . Likewise application developers may sell a variety of software applications supporting the process or portions of the process and executable by the devices . All digital content created by the entities and may be managed for example by using a licensing asset management system to provide for more efficient updates deployment and the like of the digital content and to manage licensing of the content including digital rights management DRM . Other systems may include systems useful in supporting cloud computing such as cloud based storage systems scalable processing systems data analysis systems databases virtual machines load balancers and the like.

Hardware may also be purchased by using the digital stores such as NDT device accessories hardware platform upgrades for the NDT devices and the like. By providing for an NDT business platform the NDT ecosystem may enable revenue sharing between the entities and . For example the application developers the asset OEM and the inspection solution provider may enter into a revenue sharing policy. An accounting management system may be additionally provided useful to manage credits debits and more generally accounting information related to the NDT ecosystem . For example each of the entities and and other users may keep one or more store accounts managed by the system . Sales and purchases related to each entity and and other users may then be credited or debited accordingly. In a related manner the licensing asset management system may keep entity and accounts useful in managing the assets such as the NDT devices and digital content associated with the NDT devices . For example once digital content is purchased by the inspection provider the inspection provider can log into the licensing asset management system to view software assets e.g. digital content and correlative hardware assets e.g. equipment to be inspected NDT devices listed in their account to create links between software and hardware assets update links delete links and so on as described in more detail below. Accordingly the NDT device the mobile device and the computing system may include a digital rights management DRM component which may be used to enforce licenses downloaded with the digital content so as to enable runtime licensing of the digital content .

During the initiation of an inspection that is using the NDT device the NDT device may then connect to the NDT ecosystem and all the executable content e.g. applications configuration files configuration related files along with corresponding non executable content e.g. manuals historical inspection results analysis reports training multimedia may be automatically downloaded and the device may be configured to use the downloaded content during the inspection . For example the device may receive or scan the tail number of a specific aircraft and all digital content related to that model of aircraft components of the aircraft e.g. engines airframe historical logs of the specific tail number analysis performed on the tail number maintenance logs operational logs e.g. describing equipment operations and time and so on may be automatically downloaded onto the NDT device to configure the NDT device for inspection of the specific tail number. Indeed equipment including specific equipment identified by serial number tail number and so on may be used to download a custom package of digital content including inspection application software configured to be executed by the NDT devices targeted to inspect the specific equipment. Accordingly a more efficient and focused inspection may be realized. Indeed by using the NDT ecosystem a variety of processes suitable to enable for example more efficient purchasing license management deployment of NDT devices and maintenance updating may be provided as described in more detail below. It is to be noted that all of the functionality provided by the NDT ecosystem may be contained in only one component in or more of the components of the NDT ecosystem or in any combination of components of the NDT ecosystem . For example in certain embodiments the digital stores may include the licensing asset management system the authentication system the security certificate system the accounting management system combinations thereof or any of the capabilities provided by the systems.

Accordingly customers may search for online digital content using for example filtered searches contextual searches search as you type Boolean searches and so on to find the digital content provided by the digital stores and or the other distribution channels. Once desired content is found the users e.g. entities and others may pay for digital content by using the digital stores with account information managed by the accounting management system . Multiple payment options may be supported including credit cards debit cards purchase orders coupons bank transfers online payments e.g. PayPal BitCoin and the like. Multiple license types may be supported including time based licenses e.g. annual licenses that expire once a year perpetual licenses monthly licenses weekly licenses single use licenses or per use licenses expire after a single use of the digital content and can be renewed for another use date driven licenses e.g. 30 day trial licenses volume based licenses e.g. similar to cell phone plan where charges are per time of use and or per amount of data used and so on by the licensing asset management system and DRM may be enforced. Multiple seats of the same digital content may also be purchased suitable for use by more than one user and or NDT device mobile device and computing device .

The customers may then edit some of the purchased content such as inspection procedures or may create new content both for distribution through the NDT ecosystem e.g. by using the digital stores as mentioned above with respect to . In certain cases the customers may create private stores where only users vetted by the customer may buy digital content and hardware or services . In other cases public stores may be used or created where the digital content and hardware or services may be sold to the public. Other stores may be used to sell for example restricted goods and services such as export controlled goods and services.

Accounts for customer assets e.g. software assets like the content and associated hardware like the NDT device may be provided by using the licensing asset management system . Multiple devices and or may be managed for a given single account. One button synchronization deployment may be provided as described in more detail below suitable for synchronizing the devices and or with the purchased digital content . Accordingly the devices and or may be kept up to date on NDT content including content delivered across geographic regions and in multiple languages.

Turning now to the figure is a flowchart illustrating an embodiment of a process suitable for purchasing goods and services by using the NDT stores . The process may be implemented by using computer executable instructions stored in the memory and executed by the processor . In the depicted embodiment the user e.g. and or may search block for NDT goods and services e.g. digital content and be directed to a product detail page based on the search. The search block may be performed by using the NDT devices the mobile device the computing system or a combination thereof. The user may then add a product to an online cart block . The process may then determine if the user is logged in decision . If the user is not logged in the user may then log in block . The user may then create an account block . Once the user is logged in a payment method may be determined decision . If the payment method is a purchase order the user may then enter a purchase order PO information block the process may then show a receipt block and subsequently enable download block of digital content by using the digital stores and add application content information to a My Apps system block including account information. License purchasing may be similarly added to a My Wallet system. It is to be understood that system such as My Apps and My Wallet can be combined into a single system and provided by any single component e.g. digital stores or combination of components of the NDT ecosystem .

If the payment method is determined decision to include coupons the process may then ask for purchase confirmation block . Once confirmed the receipt may be shown block and downloads block and or updates to My Apps block may be provided. If the payment method is determined decision to include a credit card the process may determine decision if credit card information has been saved. If information has been saved the process may then enable the verification of the information block such as address expiration date and the like and may then ask for purchase confirmation block . If the card information is accepted decision the receipt may be shown block and downloads block and or updates to My Apps block may be provided. If the card is not accepted decision the process may iterate back to decision and ask for payment method.

If the card information is not saved decision the user may enter credit card information block such as billing address names dates security numbers and the like. The process may then ask for purchase confirmation block . If it is determined that there is a remaining balance decision the process may iterate to decision and ask for a payment method. If there is no balance the process may show the receipt block and downloads block and or updates to My Apps block may be provided. Accordingly various payment methods may be used to purchase goods and services including digital content in the online stores .

If it is determined decision that no duplicates exists the process may update block a device and or object and decrement a count of user licenses. The object may be a virtual or online representation of a physical device and or which may be used to synchronize content with the corresponding device and or . The process may then issue a confirmation block of the allocation of the license for example via email.

To remove a license block that has been allocated to a physical device and or the process may select e.g. via user input the device block for example from a list of devices kept by the My Wallet system . The process may then notify block the user that the update e.g. removal of the license may occur in the next synchronization described in more detail in . There may be a delay block while the synchronization block occurs. After synchronization block the process may update block the object associated with the physical device and or increment a license count and may then issue a confirmation block of the removal of the license for example via email. Accordingly licenses may be assigned or de assigned to any of the devices and or . The license may be used to manage execution rights use rights display rights or a combination thereof. For example execution rights may include the right to execute content in the devices or in the cloud . The use rights may include rights provided via copyright e.g. right to copy content and to create derivative works of content rights to publish content sell content access computing systems hosting content reverse engineer content rights based on access control of content e.g. DRM rights and so on. The licensing may include licenses stored in the cloud and or in the devices . When stored in the cloud the devices may for example check with the cloud based license for any restrictions when executing using and or displaying any content .

If it is determined that there is enough space decision the process may then incrementally synchronize block the selected content which may include firmware into the device s memory. For example the memory may be incrementally flashed to add the content . Once the content is added the process may then display block a status message indicative of the synchronization of the content . By enabling a more efficient NDT based synchronization process the techniques described herein may provide for a variety of content that is more easily distributed across entities and geographies.

Turning now to the figure is a flowchart illustrating an embodiment of a process suitable for adding a device such as the NDT devices mobile device and or computing system to the NDT ecosystem . For example users e.g. and may log into the licensing asset management system and use a My Instruments system to add a device block . In the depicted embodiment the device may be added by activating or clicking block a device assignment e.g. button menu item on the device and or itself which may then communicate with the system . An activation passkey may be received block either on the device and or or in another device for example sent by the system . The user may then enter block a serial number and the activation key into a screen e.g. My Instruments screen or other identifying information used in identifying the device to be added for example to a list of devices kept by the stores . The information may be checked decision for validity and if not successful the process may issue an error message block . If it is determined decision that the information is valid the process may add the device to the device database for example linked to the user s account and complete execution block . In another embodiment information embedded in the device or added to the device may be used to automatically authenticate the device. Accordingly the process may more efficiently commission or otherwise add devices and or for participation in the ecosystem .

Technical effects of the invention include providing for an NDT ecosystem useful in increasing collaboration between parties including but not limited to asset owners inspection solution providers regulatory entities asset OEMs asset inspection providers and application developers.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

