---

title: Systems and methods for allocating tasks to a plurality of robotic devices
abstract: Methods and systems for allocating tasks to robotic devices are provided. An example method includes receiving information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices and in a computing system configured to access a processor and memory, determining information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with the task logs. A health level for a given robotic device may be proportional to a current level of ability to perform a function, which may change over a lifespan of the given robotic device. Information associated with a plurality of tasks to be performed by one or more or the robotic devices may also be determined. The computing system may optimize an allocation of the plurality of tasks such that a high precision task may be allocated to a robotic device having a greater current health level than another robotic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09446511&OS=09446511&RS=09446511
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09446511
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150311
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 757 810 filed on Feb. 3 2013 and entitled Systems and Methods for Allocating Tasks to a Plurality of Robotic Devices which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 595 872 filed on Feb. 7 2012 which are both herein incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this description.

This disclosure relates to robot cloud computing and in examples to allocating tasks to robotic devices in a robot cloud interaction.

Cloud computing refers to provision of computational resources via a computer network. In a traditional model of computing both data and software are fully contained on a user s computer. In cloud computing however the user s computer may contain relatively little software or data perhaps a minimal operating system and web browser for example and may serve as a display terminal for processes occurring on a network of computers. A common shorthand provided for a cloud computing service or even an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud .

Cloud computing has been referred to as client server computing however there may be distinctions between general cloud computing and client server computing. For example client server computing may include a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between providers of a resource or service e.g. servers and service requesters e.g. clients . Client server computing generally involves a one to one relationship between the server and the client whereas cloud computing includes generic services that can be accessed by generic clients e.g. a one to one relationship or connection may not be required . Thus cloud computing generally includes client server computing and additional services and functionality.

Cloud computing may free users from certain hardware and software installation and maintenance tasks through use of simpler hardware on the user s computer that accesses a vast network of computing resources e.g. processors hard drives etc. . Sharing of resources may reduce cost to individuals. Thus any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium such as a DVD or thumb drive.

In one example a client device may be a robotic device configured to perform one or more tasks. In some cases a computer connected to the cloud may receive information from a pool of robotic devices performing various functions

This disclosure discloses inter alia systems and methods for allocating tasks to robotic devices in a robot cloud interaction.

In one example a method is provided that comprises receiving information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices. The task logs may include information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices. The method may also include in a computing system configured to access a processor and a memory determining information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with the task logs. In some examples a health level for a given robotic device may be proportional to a current level of ability of the given robotic device to perform a function and may change over a lifespan of the given robotic device. The method may further include determining information associated with a plurality of tasks to be performed by one or more of the plurality of robotic devices. A first task may be associated with a first amount of precision that is greater than a second amount of precision associated with a second task. According to the method the computing system may optimize an allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more robotic devices of the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices. For example the first task may be allocated to a first robotic device having a first health level that is greater than a second health level of a second robotic device.

Any of the methods described herein may be provided in a form of instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions of the method. Further examples may also include articles of manufacture including tangible computer readable media that have computer readable instructions encoded thereon and the instructions may comprise instructions to perform functions of the methods described herein.

In another example a computer readable memory having stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions is provided. The functions may comprise receiving information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices. The task logs may include information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices. The functions may also include determining information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with the task logs. In some examples a health level for a given robotic device may be proportional to a current level of ability of the given robotic device to perform a function and may change over a lifespan of the given robotic device. The functions may further include determining information associated with a plurality of tasks to be performed by one or more of the plurality of robotic devices. A first task may be associated with a first amount of precision that is greater than a second amount of precision associated with a second task. In addition the functions may include optimizing an allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more robotic devices of the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices. For example the first task may be allocated to a first robotic device having a first health level that is greater than a second health level of a second robotic device.

The computer readable memory may include a non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable memory may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable memory may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable memory may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage medium.

In addition circuitry may be provided that is configured to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In still further examples any type of devices may be used or configured to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In another example a system is provided that comprises a computing component a plurality of robotic devices and a maintenance component. The computing component may comprise a processor and a memory coupled to the processor and capable of communicating with the plurality of robotic devices over a network. The computing component may be configured to receive information associated with task logs and maintenance logs for the plurality of robotic devices. The task logs may include information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices. The computing component may be further configured to determine information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with the task logs and the maintenance logs. In some examples a health level for a given robotic device may be proportional to a current level of ability of the given robotic device to perform a function and may change over a lifespan of the given robotic device. The computing component may also be configured to receive information associated with a plurality of tasks to be performed by one or more the plurality of robotic devices. A first task may be associated with a first amount of precision that is greater than a second amount of precision associated with a second task. In addition the computing component may be configured to optimize an allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more robotic devices of the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices. For example the first task may be allocated to a first robotic device having a first health level that is greater than a second health level of a second robotic device.

The plurality of robotic devices of the system may be configured to receive information from the computing component via the network associated with instructions for performing one or more tasks. The plurality of robotic devices may also be configured to transmit information associated with a status of the one or more tasks to the computing component via the network. In one instance the status may indicate whether the one or more tasks are completed. In addition the maintenance component of the system may be configured to transmit information associated with repairs of the plurality of robotic device to the computing component via the network.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the figures and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying figures which form a part hereof. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure discloses inter alia methods and systems for allocating tasks to a plurality of robotic devices. An example method may include receiving information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices. In some instances the task logs may include information associated with tasks performed by the plurality of robotic devices. For example information may indicate a given robotic device may have previously performed a given task a number of times. In one instance the information associated with the task logs may indicate tasks performed by one or more of the plurality of robotic devices that caused a robotic device to malfunction or need repair. In one example the information may include an indication of whether a task assigned to a given robotic device was completed.

Other example information associated with the task logs may include information indicating tasks or functions a given type of robotic device is capable of performing. A further example includes information associated with how and or when capabilities of a given robotic device or type of robotic device degrade over time. For instance performance of a motor of a robotic device may decrease after performing a given task a certain number of times or gears associated with a robotic device may degrade over time leading to a decreased ability to perform a function or move in a precise manner.

The example method may also include a computing system configured to access a processor and a memory determining information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices. For example the information associated with a health level for a given robotic device may be determined based on the information associated with the task logs. In some examples a health level for a given robotic device may be proportional to a current level of ability of the given robotic device to perform a function. For example the ability may change over a lifespan of the robotic device and the information associated with the respective health level may reflect a level of ability at one instance in time that may be different than another level of ability associated with another time when the robotic device was new repaired or recalibrated.

The method may also include determining information associated with a plurality of tasks to be performed by one or more of the plurality of robotic devices. In one instance a first task may be associated with a first amount of precision used to perform the first task and a second task may be associated with a second amount of precision. The first amount of precision may be greater than the second amount in some instances.

The computing system may also optimize an allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more robotic devices of the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices. In an instance in which the first task is associated with an amount of precision that is greater than the second amount associated with the second task the first task may be allocated to a first robotic device having a first health level that is greater than a second health level of the second robotic device.

In another example information associated with capabilities of the plurality of robotic devices may be determined. For example a determination may be made based on analysis of previous performances of the plurality of robotic devices or similar robotic devices. In yet another example scheduling of maintenance appointments for the plurality of robotic devices may be optimized based on the information associated with respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices.

In some examples real time information may be received from a group or each of the plurality of robotic devices indicating a status of the plurality of robotic devices. For example a status of a given robotic device may indicate an availability to perform a task. In some instances the real time information combined with the determined information associated with health levels for the plurality of robotic devices may be used to optimize the allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more of the robotic devices. Thus in some instances the plurality of tasks may be allocated based on current conditions of one or more robotic devices and or historical performances of the one or more robotic devices in order to match a health level of a robotic device with an amount of precision associated with performing a function or task.

Referring now to the figures is an example system for cloud based computing. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A cloud may refer to a service or a group of services accessible over a network e.g. Internet by client and server devices for example.

In one example any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Thus cloud computing enables a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium.

As an example in contrast to a predominately client based or server based application a cloud based application may store copies of data and or executable program logic at remote server devices while allowing client devices to download at least some of this data and program logic as needed for execution at the client devices. In some examples downloaded data and program logic can be tailored to capabilities of specific client devices e.g. a personal computer tablet or mobile phone or robot accessing the cloud based application. In addition dividing application execution and storage between the client and server devices allows more processing to be performed by the server devices taking advantage of server devices processing power and capability for example.

Cloud based computing can also refer to distributed computing architectures in which data and program logic for a cloud based application are shared between one or more client devices and or server devices on a near real time basis. Parts of this data and program logic may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various clients accessing the cloud based application. Details of the architecture may be transparent to users of client devices. Thus a PC user or robot client device accessing a cloud based application may not be aware that the PC or robot downloads program logic and or data from the server devices or that the PC or robot offloads processing or storage functions to the server devices for example.

In a cloud includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud may include more or fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the cloud infrastructure .

The system includes a number of client devices coupled to or configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud . For example a computer a mobile device a host and a robot client are shown coupled to the cloud . Of course more or fewer client devices may be coupled to the cloud . In addition different types of client devices may be coupled to the cloud . For example any of the client devices may generally comprise a display system memory and a processor.

The computer may be any type of computing device e.g. PC laptop computer etc. and the mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device e.g. laptop mobile telephone cellular telephone etc. .

The host may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone etc. that is configured to transmit data to the cloud .

The robot client may comprise any computing device that has connection abilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A robot may further be a combination of computing devices. In some examples the robot may collect data and upload the data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the robot client . In some examples as shown in the cloud may include a computer that is not co located with the robot client . In other examples the robot client may send data to a second client e.g. computer for processing.

Any of the client devices may include additional components. For example the robot client may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer to measure movement of the robot client . Other sensors may further include any of Global Positioning System GPS receivers encoders infrared sensors optical sensors biosensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems wireless sensors and or compasses among others for example.

In addition any of the client devices may include an integrated user interface UI that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the robot client may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. As another example the robot client device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the robot client may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of user interface devices to be connected to the robot client .

In communication links between client devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. Communication links may also be wireless links such as link which may include Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the client devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms for example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a client device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the client devices may include a wired or wireless network interface through which the client devices can connect to the cloud or access points . As an example the client devices may be configured use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the client devices may be configured use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

An example illustration of a robotic device is shown in . In one example the robotic device is configured as a robot. In some examples a robot may contain computer hardware such as a processor memory or data storage and one or more sensors . For example a robot controller e.g. processor computing system and sensors may all be custom designed for a specific robot. The robot may have a link to access cloud servers as shown in . A wired link may include for example a parallel bus or a serial bus such as a Universal Serial Bus USB . A wireless link may include for example Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 Cellular such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities.

In one example the storage may be used for compiling data from various sensors of the robotic device and storing program instructions. The processor may be coupled to the storage and may be configured to control the robotic device based on the program instructions. The processor may also be able to interpret data from the various sensors on the robot. Example sensors may include a camera smoke sensors light sensors radio sensors infrared sensors microphones speakers gyroscope accelerometer distance sensors encoders a camera radar capacitive sensors and touch sensors etc. Example distance sensors include infrared ranging sensors photoelectric distance sensors proximity sensors ultrasonic sensors radar or other types of sensors that may provide outputs used to determine a distance of the robotic device to an object.

The robotic device may also have components or devices that allow the robotic device to interact with an environment of the robotic device . For example the robotic device may have a camera to provide images of a field of view of the environment as well as mechanical actuators such as motors wheels movable arms etc. that enable the robotic device to move or interact with the environment.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the robotic device may be modules. Different modules may be added or removed from the robotic device depending on requirements. For example in a low power situation a robot may have fewer modules to reduce power usages. However additional sensors may be added as needed. To increase an amount of data a robot may be able to collect additional sensors may be added for example.

In some examples the robotic device may be configured to receive a device such as device that includes the processor the storage and the sensors . For example the robotic device may be a robot that has a number of mechanical actuators e.g. a movable base and the robot may be configured to receive a mobile telephone to function as the brains or control components of the robot. The device may be considered a module of the robot. The device may be physically attached to the robot or in communication with the robot. For example a mobile phone may sit on a robot s chest and form an interactive display. The device may provide a robot with sensors a wireless link and processing capabilities for example. The device may allow a user to download new routines for his or her robot from the cloud. For example a laundry folding routine may be stored on the cloud and a user may be able to select this routine using a mobile phone to download the routine from the cloud. When the mobile phone is placed into or coupled to the robot the robot would be able to perform the downloaded action.

In some examples the robotic device may be coupled to a mobile or cellular telephone to provide additional sensing capabilities. The cellular phone may not be physically attached to the robot but may be coupled to the robot wirelessly. For example a low cost robot may omit a direct connection to the internet. This robot may be able to connect to a user s cellular phone via a wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth to be able to access the internet. The robot may be able to access various sensors and communication means of the cellular phone. The robot may not need as many sensors to be physically provided on the robot however the robot may be able to keep the same or similar functionality.

Thus the robotic device may include mechanical robot features and may be configured to receive the device e.g. a mobile phone which can provide additional peripheral components to the robotic device such as any of an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera WiFi connection a touch screen etc. that are included within the device .

In one example the robot may be a toy with only limited mechanical functionality and by connecting the device to the robot the toy robot may now be capable of performing a number of functions with the aid of the device and or the cloud. In this manner the robot or components of a robot can be attached to a mobile phone to transform the mobile phone into a robot e.g. with legs arms that is connected to a server to cause operation functions of the robot.

Any of the robots illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management etc. to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system as well as proprietary software and other examples also include ROSJAVA. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework etc.

As shown any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot.

In one example the robot may send data to a cloud for data processing and in another example the robot may receive data from the cloud. The data received from the cloud may be in many different forms. The received data may be a processed form of data the robot sent to the cloud. The received data may also come from sources other than the robot. For example the cloud may have access to other sensors other robots and the internet.

The cloud may receive input from several robots. Data from each robot may be compiled into a larger data set. For example the robot may take a picture of an object and upload the picture to the cloud . An object recognition program in the cloud may be configured to identify the object in the picture and provide data to all the robots connected to the cloud about the recognized object as well as possibly about other characteristics e.g. metadata of the recognized object such as a location size weight color etc. Thus every robot may be able to know attributes of an object in a photo uploaded by the robot .

The robots and may perform any number of actions with an area people other robots etc. In one example each robot and has WiFi or other network based connectivity and will upload publish data to the cloud that can then be shared with any other robot. In this manner each robot and shares experiences with each other to enable learned behaviors. Each robot and will have access to real time up to date data. Overall the robots and may be configured to share data that is collected to enable faster adaptation such that each robot and can build upon a learned experience of a previous robot.

The database may be accessible by all robots through the cloud or alternatively directly accessible by all robots without communication through the cloud . The database may thus be a shared knowledge base stored in the cloud . In some examples robots may share learned behaviors through the cloud . The cloud may have a server that stores robot learned activities or behaviors resulting in a shared knowledge base of behaviors and heuristics for object interactions e.g. a robot app store .

Thus within examples the robots and may share information through the cloud and may access the database . The robots and may access the cloud to perform any number of functions or methods described herein.

In one example a computing system such as a computing component in the cloud or a computing component of a robotic device connected to a fleet of robotic devices may receive information associated with a plurality of tasks to be performed by a plurality of robotic devices.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the block diagram shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor or computing device for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes receiving information associated with task logs for a plurality of robotic devices. In one example the plurality of robotic devices may publish task statuses associated with tasks or functions assigned to and performed by the plurality of robotic devices to a database. The database may also include information from other robotic devices similar to the robotic devices. Other types of information associated with the task logs may include information indicating what tasks or types of tasks a robotic device is capable of performing. For example a given robotic device may be capable of performing a repetitive task with a given amount of tolerance accompanying a result of the task or navigating with a given amount of precision. In other examples a given robotic device may have performed tasks involving lifting objects adhering to size or weight constraints or transporting objects. Still other types of information associated with the task logs may include information indicating an amount of precision associated with performance of one or more tasks. In one instance the amount of precision may be an ideal amount of precision e.g. an amount of precision that a new robotic device of a given type could demonstrate . In another instance the amount of precision may be a real time measure that takes into consideration the current state of the robotic device given the effects of wear and tear or the like on the robotic device.

The information associated with the task logs may be received at a server residing in the cloud at a computing device coupled to a robotic device and or at a robotic device for example.

At block the method includes in a computing system configured to access a processor and a memory determining information associated with a health level for the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with the task logs. In one example a health level for a given robotic device may be proportional to a current level of ability of the given robotic device to perform a function. For instance the current level of ability of the given robotic device to perform a function may be determined based on a current amount of precision the robotic device is capable of performing the function with.

In some instances a robotic device that is new or unused may have a first level of ability however analyzing the information associated with the task logs may indicate that at a time after the robotic device has performed the task a certain number of times the robotic device may have a second level of ability that is lower than the first level. For example the first level may be associated with an ability to perform a given task repeatedly generating a result that is repeatable within a first amount of tolerance. The second level may be associated with a result that is repeatable within a second amount of tolerance that is greater than the first amount i.e. a less precise result . In one instance the decrease in ability may be due to wear and tear caused by previous performances of the task. Thus the ability may change over time throughout a lifespan of the robotic device.

In some examples the information associated with the respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices may include or reflect an estimate of an expected remaining lifespan for one or more or each of the robotic devices. For example based on data mining or other types of analysis of the information associated with the task logs an estimate of a time of failure need for maintenance work etc. may be determined by the computing system. In one instance the estimate may be a relative metric with respect to the plurality of robotic devices. In other instances the estimate may be an absolute amount of time or a future date.

The computing system may determine the information associated with the health level for the plurality of robotic devices by querying a database and receiving the information. Alternatively the computing system may make the determination by processing data received from the plurality of robotic devices such as to determine successes and failures of completion of prior tasks and optionally a degree of precision with which tasks are completed.

At block the method includes determining information associated with a plurality of tasks to be performed by one or more of the plurality of robotic devices. In one example the information associated with the plurality of tasks may include information regarding amounts of precision associated with one or more of the tasks. For instance a first task may be associated with a first amount of precision that is greater than a second amount of precision associated with a second task. As an example a first task may require a higher amount of precision e.g. navigating to a position within one meter of a location applying an amount of force to an object within a force range etc. that is greater than a lower amount of precision associated with the second task.

In another example the information associated with the plurality of tasks may include amounts of time associated with performance or completion of one or more of the plurality of tasks or portions of the tasks. In yet another example the information associated with the plurality of tasks may include a type of robotic device capable of performing one or more of the plurality of tasks e.g. a robotic device with a given functionality or feature .

At block the method includes the computing system optimizing an allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more robotic devices of the plurality of robotic devices based on the information associated with respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices. In the instance in which a first task is associated with a first amount of precision that is greater than a second amount of precision associated with a second task the computing system may allocate the first task to a first robotic device having a first health level that is greater than a second health level of a second robotic device. For example the first robotic device may be newer or younger than the second robotic device and the first task may accordingly be allocated to the first robotic device. In some examples the second task may be allocated to the second robotic device.

Although the example is described with respect to a first and second robotic device the example is not meant to be limiting. The method may apply to any number of tasks as well as any number of robotic devices. In some instances more than one task may be allocated to a given robotic device. In another instance no tasks may be allocated to any of the plurality of robotic devices.

In one instance the method may also include determining information associated with capabilities of the plurality of robotic devices and optimizing the allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more of the robotic devices based on the capabilities of the robotic devices e.g. delivering objects picking up objects with different grips navigating through an area throwing an object capturing an image of an object etc. .

For example a first robotic device may initially be capable of performing a number of tasks or functions with a resulting amount of precision e.g. 10 different tasks functions . Over time the robotic device may degrade due to wear and tear for example such that the first robotic device is capable of performing a lesser number of tasks at a later instance in time with a same or greater lessor amount of precision. Based on the health level for the first robotic device the computing system may identify the decrease in number of tasks the first robotic device is capable of performing and in the future allocate tasks to the first robotic device that the first robotic device is still capable of performing. Thus the allocation may be optimized based on the capabilities as well as the information associated with the respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices.

In some examples the method may be performed by a server e.g. a server in a cloud . The information associated with task logs may be received by the server and stored in a database. A computing system of the server may receive the information associated with the task logs determine the information associated with health levels and the information associated with the plurality of tasks and optimize the allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more robotic devices.

In some examples the method may be performed by a robotic device. For example the robotic device may query a server for information associated with task logs. A computing system of the robotic device may receive the information associated with the task logs determine the information associated with health levels and the information associated with the plurality of tasks and optimize the allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more robotic devices. In one instance the robotic device may allocate one or more tasks to itself as well as one or more tasks to the one or more robotic devices.

In other examples the computing system may determine the health levels for the plurality of robotic devices and a user may optimize the allocation of the plurality of tasks based on the information determined by the computing system. For example a user may observe information associated with a health level for each of the plurality of robotic devices on a display as well as information associated with the plurality of tasks and optimize and allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more robotic devices.

In some examples the display may be accessed via a web interface connected to a server and the computing system in a cloud. The display may include statistics associated with a group such as any robotic device that is available to perform a task at an instance in time or each of the plurality of robotic devices such that a user may quickly discern a health level of a given robotic device relative to the respective health levels of the plurality of robotic devices. For example statistics for a given robotic device may include percentile graphs indicating a health level or other statistic of a robotic device relative to the respective health levels of the plurality of robotic devices. In other examples the display may be provided on a display associated with a robotic device and configured to receive information from the server in the cloud.

Additionally the computing component may also receive information associated with task logs for the robotic devices from the database . The computing component may determine information associated with a health level for the robotic devices based on the information associated with the task logs. Furthermore the computing component may receive or determine information associated with the plurality of tasks to be performed by the robotic devices .

In some examples the computing component may optimize an allocation of the plurality of tasks to one or more of the robotic devices based on the information indicating statuses of the robotic devices and the determined respective health levels for the robotic devices .

For example the computing component may send information to a robotic device instructing the robotic device to perform a first task and send information to another robotic device instructing the other robotic device to perform a second task . The computing component or database may receive from the robotic device an indication of the robotic device performing the first task

In a further example the robotic device may also send information associated with a task status of the first task to the computing component or database . In one instance the task status may include information sent by the robotic device indicating whether the first task is completed or information describing an update of completion of the task. In another instance the computing component may determine whether the task is completed based on information sent to the database from sensors of the robotic device or sensors configured to determine when the task is completed.

In one example information associated with the tasks to be performed by the pair of robotic devices may include a first task and a second task with associated amounts of precision P and P respectively. P might be greater than P indicating the first task may require a greater amount of precision than the second task . A computing component and or a user may optimize an allocation of the first task and the second task to the pair of robotic devices based on the amounts of precision P and P and the information associated with respective health levels for the pair of robotic devices. For example the computing system may determine that the second robotic device is capable of performing a function more precisely based on a relationship between a lifespan of a robotic device and a level of ability of the robotic device. As an example the relationship between lifespan and level of ability may be that a level of ability to perform a function precisely decreases e.g. decreases linearly exponentially etc. over a lifespan of a given robotic device. Thus in some examples the optimized allocation may include an allocation of the second task to the first robotic device and an allocation of the first task to the second robotic device .

In other examples a computing component or a user may also optimize tasks functions a robotic device may perform as well as scheduling of maintenance appointments for the robotic device as characteristics of the robotic device change over time. is an example conceptual diagram of an optimized allocation of a task to a robotic device . In an instance in which information associated with capabilities of the robotic device is determined the information associated with the capabilities may also be modified based on the information associated with respective health levels for the robotic devices. For example the information may be demoted in some examples in order to portray a more accurate level of reliability associated with how the robotic device may be expected to perform given a current state of the robotic device as opposed to a state when the robotic device is new refurbished re calibrated etc. .

For example information associated with capabilities for a given robotic device may be demoted over time. As a determined health level for a given robotic device decreases over time the capabilities of the robotic device may be demoted. In one example a robotic device that may have been able to perform high precision tasks e.g. assembling an object as part of a manufacturing process may later be demoted to being capable of delivering objects from one area to another area e.g. due to broken or malfunctioning components necessary for the assembly .

As shown in a health level HL may be determined for the robotic device . In one instance the robotic device may have previously performed a first task associated with a first amount of prevision P . Given the health level HL a computing component or a user may determine that the robotic device may no longer be suitable for performing the first task due to an assumed or observed loss in an ability of the robotic device to move accurately over time for example. However the robotic device may be capable of performing a second task associated with a second amount of precision P . In one example the second amount of precision P may be less than the first amount P .

In a further instance the robotic device may require maintenance e.g. re calibration updating refurbishing etc. in order to perform the first task in the future. However rather than scheduling the robotic device to perform maintenance prior to performing any more tasks the robotic device may be tasked to perform the second task a number of times before the robotic device is scheduled for maintenance. Thus in some examples lower precision tasks may be assigned to a robotic device that is near failure e.g. no longer capable of performing a task which the robotic device was originally designated or designed to perform to maximize a utility of the robotic device and reduce maintenance appointments.

In other examples determined information associated with respective health levels for the plurality of robotic devices may be employed to optimize the scheduling of maintenance appointments for the plurality of robotic devices. In one instance information associated with task logs for the plurality of robotic devices may be used to determine a number of times a robotic device or type of robotic device may be expected to perform a function or task within a given amount of tolerance before failing. In some examples the expected number and a number of tasks the robotic device has performed may be used to determine when a robotic device should be scheduled for maintenance.

In another instance received information associated with maintenance logs e.g. information recorded when a robotic device is repaired indicating how many tasks or what type of tasks the robotic device performed prior to the repair may be used to optimize the scheduling of future maintenance appointments. This may be beneficial in order to minimize failures of one or more of the plurality of robotic devices during execution of tasks as well as in order to maximize the utility of the plurality of robotic devices between maintenance.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

