---

title: Method for using supervised model to identify user
abstract: A system and method comprising receiving information consequent to communication between a user and the computer system, performing one or more queries based at least in part on the information, and computing a set of frequency values for results of the one or more queries. The system and method further comprises determining at least one confidence score for the one or more queries based at least in part on an outcome of evaluating the set of frequency values against one or more sets of decision rules, and, based at least in part on the at least one confidence score, outputting at least one user identity associated with the at least one confidence score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355155&OS=09355155&RS=09355155
owner: Klarna AB
number: 09355155
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20150819
---
This application incorporates by reference for all purposes the full disclosure of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 830 690 filed concurrently herewith entitled METHOD FOR USING SUPERVISED MODEL TO CONFIGURE USER INTERFACE PRESENTATION . This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 187 620 filed on Jul. 1 2015 entitled INCREMENTAL LOGIN AND AUTHENTICATION TO USER PORTAL WITHOUT USERNAME PASSWORD the content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As computers and computer networks become ubiquitous more and more transactions are being conducted over computer networks. Various mechanisms and procedures have been implemented in order to make such transactions secure and in order to verify and authenticate the parties involved. Often such verification and authentication requires the user to input information that the user may not readily remember is intrusive or is not easily accessible to the user. Accordingly requiring the user to input such information impedes the transaction and adversely affects the user experience which may cause fewer transactions to be conducted over computer networks.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Techniques described and suggested in the present disclosure include a system and method for determining an identity of a user based on details corresponding to an order where the details lack a ground truth value that identifies the user. The techniques described include receiving a request to determine a user identity associated with details of an order user registration access information or the like. The request may include details from which a set of values that correspond to values in fields of a database of historical records can be extracted. In some examples historical records may refer to a data set in which data similar to the details or the set of values have been previously stored at least some of the data in the data set having originated from a different source e.g. one or more different users than the user associated with the user identity than the current source of the details.

The set of values may be transformed into a normalized set of search terms and a set of inverse document frequencies IDFs corresponding to the set of search terms may be calculated. Examples of transforming values into search terms include converting be values to upper or lower case e.g. Lars into lars concatenating multiple values into a single search term e.g. henry and gibson into henrygibson removing leading zeros padding with leading zeros removing white space padding with white space truncating a value e.g. donald into don removing nonnumeric characters e.g. 1 000 becomes 1000 adding nonnumeric characters e.g. 127000000001 into 127.000. 000.001 adding wildcard characters e.g. main st and so on. The inverse document frequencies may reflect how common the search term is in the database of historical records. For example an IDF of a search term that occurs in 10 000 records of the database will be lower than an IDF of a search term that occurs in 100 records of the database. Thus the higher the IDF the more rare i.e. uncommon the term is. Rare terms may be more likely to indicate that a current user is associated with or the same as the user that corresponds to matching records in the database.

Historical records are retrieved based on the search queries. For example for a given name search term of henry and a family name search term of gibson may retrieve a set of records containing either given name field values matching henry family name field values matching gibson or both. The retrieved historical values may be ranked according to a ranking scheme which may be based on frequencies of matched values and a subset of top ranking historical records may be selected and evaluated through a specially trained supervised model called a random forest. The supervised model may output for each of the top ranking historical records a confidence score which may be based on votes cast by decision trees in the random forest. A business rule management system may then determine based on a set of rules and the confidence scores whether the user is the same as a user associated with some or any of the top scoring historical records.

Techniques described and suggested in the present disclosure further include receiving a set of field values that corresponds to a transaction. The set of field values may include the values input by a user into form fields of the website of an online merchant. The set of field values may also include one or more other details about the transaction including an Internet protocol address of one or more computing devices involved in the transaction time and or date. Based on the set of field values identifying information for the user that is a party to the transaction may be obtained such as the user s identity which may be determined according to techniques described above the user s age the user s email address the user s phone number and so on. Information about previous transactions may also be obtained based on the user s determined identity such as information about one or more previous purchases by the user.

A characteristic associated with the customer such as a credit risk e.g. likelihood of default by the user may be calculated and based on this characteristic previous transaction information and the identifying information a set of inputs may be generated. For each possible payment type potentially available for the user the set of inputs may be passed to a random forest of the supervised model to obtain a score indicating a likelihood that the user will prefer to pay for the transaction using that particular payment type. The random forest in this embodiment is a random forest that was trained on a data set of previous purchases of various users with the records of the data set having one or more ground truth values at least one of which being the payment type selected for the particular purchase by the particular user.

Based on the scores for each of the potential payment types the system may select the user interface customized around the payment type most likely preferred by the user. For example if previous purchases indicate that payment type for purchases made between 9 00 AM and 5 00 PM is usually direct bank withdrawal but outside those hours payment type is usually by credit card if the transaction is occurring at 10 53 PM the system may select to display credit card as the default payment type in the checkout user interface. Upon selection of the payment option by the user the system may perform the particular workflow associated with that payment type.

Techniques described and suggested in the present disclosure further include techniques for determining an ideal balance between credit pricing and customer conversion. In other words determining an ideal reduction in the cost of credit in order to encourage more users to finalize transactions thereby allowing a creditor to maintain profitability through increased volume. Techniques described and suggested in the present disclosure further include techniques for using a random forest of the supervised model to determine a likelihood based on details associated with the transaction that a customer will return one or more items from the transaction. By predicting the likelihood of returns efficiency can be achieved in merchant systems by for example allowing additional information for payment processing i.e. because some products may be in transit back to the merchant and therefore the customer need not be charged in full for the order and providing the merchant with a more dynamic inventory e.g. the merchant may not need to restock some items if returns of some items are expected .

Techniques described and suggested in the present disclosure further include predicting using a random forest of the supervised model future purchasing behavior of users based on browsing habits. For example if a user browses product pages for 32 inch televisions of one or more merchants the system of the present disclosure may conclude that the user is on the verge of purchasing a 32 inch television and accordingly may present promotions or price reductions for 32 inch televisions. Techniques described and suggested in the present disclosure further include predicting a likelihood using a random forest of a supervised model that a user will not complete a transaction and accordingly may present promotions or other incentives in order to encourage such users to complete their transactions. Techniques described and suggested in the present disclosure further include utilizing a 3 D Secure security layer for credit card transactions based on a predicted likelihood as determined by a random forest of the supervised model that a user will not complete a transaction.

Techniques described and suggested in the present disclosure improve the field of computing specifically the field of user authentication by determining an identity of the user without requiring credentials such as username and password. Additionally techniques described and suggested in the present disclosure improve the efficiency of user authentication in computer systems by utilizing a random forest trained using population data having ground truth values for user identities to be able to determine the user identity and compute a confidence score within a threshold amount of time e.g. 50 milliseconds . Moreover described and suggested techniques discussed herein are necessarily rooted in computer technology in order to overcome problems specifically arising with ease of use of computing devices for conducting transactions between parties over a computer network by verifying one or more identities of the parties to the transaction using top of mind information and or details intrinsic to the transaction itself. For example online payment systems generally use computer implemented techniques for authentication thereby allowing such online payment systems to perform automated processing of payments while ensuring with high probability that payments are authorized by a proper party i.e. one with authorization to utilize a payment instrument . Techniques described and suggested herein allow for such online payment systems to operate more efficiently and in a manner that addresses many of the cumbersome aspects of conventional authentication techniques thereby making such online payment systems easier to use. Further many organizations employ complex systems to customize user interfaces such as web pages. Techniques described and suggested herein allow for more efficient and or more effective customization of such user interfaces including user interfaces for online payment systems.

The merchant system may be a website or other Internet accessible platform configured to provide goods and or services to customers at a price. Note that although the system is described in the context of an online marketplace it is contemplated that the system may be usable in other contexts. For example the merchant system rather than being an online marketplace may be a system hosting a social media site a news site or other site configured to perform operations based on the identity of the remote user . The merchant system may include a merchant database in communication with the server .

The remote user may be an individual attempting to purchase an item or service from the merchant corresponding to the merchant system . As noted embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in other contexts for example the remote user may be a user attempting to register or authenticate as a user of a media website hosted by the merchant system . As illustrated in the remote users may access through the network using the user device a website such as an online marketplace that is hosted on the at least one server .

The database may be an organized collection of data such as tables queries reports views and other objects. The database may be configured for the storage and retrieval of data for the merchant system . For example the database may include among other things information about the products being sold by the merchant such as quantity in stock price description images of the products and so on. The at least one server may be configured to host a website and or other applications for the merchant. The database may also be a repository for historical information such as details about past orders identifiers for customers who have previously purchased something from the merchant and other such information. Examples of such repositories include those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM as well as open source repositories such as MySQL Postgres SQLite MongoDB and any other repository capable of storing retrieving and accessing structured or unstructured data.

The user device may be an electronic computing device such as a personal computer mobile device tablet computer home theater device or a device similar to the device of configured to communicate with sites like the website of the merchant system such as through a browser and or application programming interface. The network represents the path of communication between the remote user and merchant system and or the record matching service . Examples of the network include the Internet a local area network a wide area network and Wi Fi.

The record matching service may be a system comprising one or more computing devices configured to at least identify the remote user from details provided by the remote user and or the user device . The details may include one or more details about the user e.g. given name family name telephone number email address delivery address billing address postcode etc. the item e.g. item identifier price quantity size color description etc. the user device e.g. Internet protocol address browser version operating system etc. and or other details e.g. current date current time etc. . As an example if the details received by the record matching service include details for a large order of flowers by Henry Gibson from an online merchant but records corresponding to the name Henry Gibson in the database are typically orders for writing materials the record matching service may determine that the user has a low probability of being the same Henry Gibson as was found in the database . Consequently the record matching service may assign a new identifier to the user .

The record matching service may be configured to receive the details from the remote user via an application interface call or other user interface component configured to communicate with the record matching service through the network e.g. the Internet . The record matching service may be configured to determine based at least in part on the details an identity of a remote user at least to a certain degree of confidence perform a credit assessment of the determined remote user and or handle payment for purchase from the merchant by the remote user . The record matching service may be configured to communicate with components of the merchant system in order to determine an identity of the remote user based on information such as the historical information . Based on this information the record matching service may communicate to the merchant system a result indicating a determined identity of the remote user and in some cases a confidence score reflecting a likelihood that the determined identity is actually the identity of the remote user . The record matching service may also be used in an automated payment system that may communicate with third party systems e.g. banks credit card services or other financial organizations such as for the purpose of determining whether to extend credit to the remote user . For example as a result of the remote user indicating to proceed with the purchase of the item the merchant system may send a purchase order request to an automated payment system of the record matching service . The purchase order request may include information such as a session identifier for identifying the user device and or other control data.

In the system of the present disclosure the record matching service may attempt to complete the user purchase even before the remote user chooses which payment method to use. This may be achieved by creating a reservation for credit and extending credit to the customer as a result. The reservation for credit may be similar to a reservation made by a credit card company in response to receiving a request for credit authorization. That is the record matching service may determine a credit limit for the remote user that the record matching service will honor for purchases from the merchant of the merchant system based on certain details of the transaction such as the goods being purchased the merchant identity the amount of purchase the type of payment plan the customer s purchasing ability customer s payment history and or the customer s most recent purchasing activity. In some cases the record matching service may determine not to extend credit to the remote user . In some cases the credit limit may apply only to the specific transaction whereas in other cases the credit limit may apply overall to one or more transactions between the remote user and one or more merchants.

The identities of the customers A B may be stored in a data store of historical records in association with details A C that correspond to the historical records A C. A benefit provided by the system of the present disclosure is that the customer may be identified with a certain amount of certainty confidence requiring only minimal input or top of mind input from the customer . For example if the system of the present disclosure has access to historical records indicating that Martha Hudson at the address A Baker Street places an order for tea with a particular online merchant on the second day of every month from a particular Internet protocol address if the customer places an order for tea from the particular online merchant on May 2nd from the particular Internet protocol address the system may determine based on these details with a certain amount of confidence that the customer is Martha Hudson.

In some examples top of mind information may refer to details that are so familiar to the customer that they require little effort to recall and or input. For example the customer can likely remember his her given name and family name with ease. However depending on how common such given name and family name are and input of a given name and a family name may not provide sufficient confidence that the customer is not just a different customer with the same name as say customer B. However the customer is also likely to remember his her email address and birthdate with little effort and an email address or birthdate may provide greater confidence that the customer is the same as another customer. Consequently an input of an email address and or a birthdate in conjunction with one or more other top of mind values may provide sufficient confidence that the customer is the same as a customer associated with a historical record or may provide sufficient confidence that the customer is not the same as the customer.

Conversely not all customers however may have their phone number at the top of their mind and few customers will be able to recall one of their credit card numbers with ease or at all. Therefore even though such information has a lot of value in providing confidence that the customer is or is not the same customer as another customer it may be less preferable from a user experience standpoint to demand such information from the customer . On the other hand an Internet protocol address has much value in identifying a particular customer and can be obtained from the customer device rather than the customer. Accordingly one of the objects of the present disclosure includes determining a customer identity from information intrinsic to the transaction e.g. Internet protocol address of the device being used by the customer and or information easily recalled and input by the customer. Note too that other types of input are contemplated such as audio e.g. voice and speech recognition gesture and pattern recognition e.g. gesture detected via image sensor signature drawn on a touch screen pattern of mouse pointer motion etc. and biometric input e.g. thumbprint etc. .

In an identity of Customer A is associated with a record A and a set of details A an identity of Customer B is associated with a record B and a set of details B and an identity of Customer C is associated with records C D and respective sets of details C D. As can be seen in the example the system of the present disclosure has identified the customer based on the details as Customer B. Note that the system of the present disclosure does not necessarily attempt to locate a historical record that is the most similar to the details but instead locates the historical record based on frequencies of values in the details . For example if historical records A and C D include in corresponding details A and C D a postcode of 90210 while historical record B includes in corresponding details B a postcode of 40516. Here it may be that the postcode 90210 occurs with a frequency of for example 3 in 4 while the postcode of 40516 occurs with the frequency of 1 in 4. In this manner the system of the present disclosure may be able to narrow down the identity of the customer based upon the frequencies that details occur within the historical records . For example consider two different potential matches A first potential match has a first user with a postcode having a frequency of 1 in 4 potentially matched to a first order having a postcode frequency also of 1 in 4 0.25 . A second potential match has a second user with a postcode having a frequency of 2 in 4 0.5 is potentially matched to a second order having a postcode frequency of 2 in 4. Because of the lower frequency of the first potential match the first potential match is more likely to be correct than the second potential match. This combined with other frequencies for different fields e.g. by using a supervised model such as a random forecast allows for high probability matches using the frequencies for field values rather than the field values themselves

The record matching service may be a service provided to merchants website owners or other users that is designed to find a closest match between the details and at least one record from a set of historical records . To that end when the record matching service receives the details the record matching service attempts to determine whether the customer entering the details is associated with a historical record and what other historical records may also be associated with the customer.

The data store may be a repository for data objects such as database records flat files and other data objects. Examples of data stores include file systems relational databases non relational databases object oriented databases comma delimited files and other files. In some implementations the data store is a distributed data store. The details may be information similar to the details of and may include information such as given name family name Internet protocol address email address etc. As shown in the example a customer has entered Mac Bethad and PA76 6SQ in the given name family name and postcode fields respectively in the user interface . The user interface provides the details to the record matching service in a request to determine the identity of the customer.

Note it is also contemplated that the methods of the present disclosure may be actively and incrementally repeated as a customer enters more input such as for example on a character by character basis. For example after the customer types the letter M for the given name the system may attempt to perform the process of the present disclosure to determine whether the customer can be identified with sufficient certainty e.g. confidence score of 0.9 or above from the first initial of the given name. After the customer types a in the given name field the system of the present disclosure may attempt to determine the customer s identity from the first two letters of the given name Ma and so on. Upon determining the customer s identity with acceptable certainty the system may respond by pre populating the remaining field or by prompting the user to verify the determined customer identity e.g. Are you Mac Bethad of postcode PA76 6SQ .

In some embodiments the order of input fields and the actual input fields displayed in the user interface will vary based on information value associated with the particular input field type. For example an email address and birthdate may be determined to be the most useful field for identifying a particular user. In such a case rather than requesting given name family name and postcode as displayed in the fields may simply be email address and birthdate and the user identity can be determined from only those two fields. Similarly in some of these embodiments input fields can dynamically vary based on which input fields are determined to be the most useful for identifying the user based on information already known about the user. For example after the user enters his given name Mac into the given name field of the user interface the system of the present disclosure may determine that only two users with the first name Mac are found in historical records but that they reside at different postcodes. Consequently in this example the system may cause the user interface to hide the family name field and only prompt the user to further fill out the postcode field. If the postcode field value matches the postcode of one of the two Macs in the historical records the system may determine that the current user is the same as the matching Mac. If the postcode field matches neither of the two Macs the system may determine either to prompt the user for additional information e.g. family name that may distinguish the two users or may assume that the user is a new user and create a new user identity for the new Mac at the new postcode. Note that in various embodiments a match does not necessarily require equality. For example two values may match if they are not equal but mathematically equivalent. As another example two values may match if they satisfy one or more matching criteria e.g. kat may match Kathryn if the matching criteria specifies that in a case nonspecific manner only the first three characters must be the same . Generally any way of determining whether there is a match may be used.

An advantage provided by the system of the present disclosure is that separate transactions may be determined as associated with the same user merely from details associated with the transactions and then the separate transactions may be linked to the same user identifier. The details may include top of mind information input from the user and or information collected during the conduct of the transaction e.g. Internet protocol address of the user device geolocation data such as from a global positioning system etc. . Although it is contemplated that usernames and or passwords may be additionally or alternatively utilized by embodiments of the present disclosure in many embodiments a user account associated with the user identifier may be created as an account without recourse to a conventional process of establishing a shared secret e.g. username password between the user and the service provider in order for the user to have administrative access to the user account. In some embodiments the user may be prompted to confirm control of one or more assets e.g. mobile telephone email account etc. associated with the transaction as additional assurance of identity of the user .

Confirming control of the asset combined with in some cases any details associated with the session e.g. Internet protocol address of the user device any identifying information provided etc. may be used by embodiments of the present disclosure to determine with sufficient certainty e.g. confidence score exceeding a threshold that the identity of the user is the user authorized to access the account that credential e.g username password verification may not be required i.e. superfluous . In this way the system of the present disclosure can avoid the complexity of managing one or more sets of credentials for each user and improve security by avoiding the need for complex password requirements and passwords which may be insecurely protected or easily forgotten by users. Furthermore any details input by the user may simply be top of mind information e.g. email address telephone number etc. or information already associated with the transaction e.g. items selected for purchase payment method etc. thereby improving usability of the interface for the user.

Although depicted within a single data store the historical records may be distributed among multiple data stores accessible to the record matching service and the multiple data stores may even be distributed among multiple geographic locations. In some implementations the historical records may reside in one or more data stores of the provider of the record matching service whereas in other implementations the historical records may reside with individual merchants or with a third party that contracts with the in the individual merchants. For example some of the historical records may be stored in a data store of an online merchant in the United States and some other of the historical records may be stored in another data store of another online merchant in Europe. In some implementations the record matching service may attempt to match the user only with a historical record associated with the particular merchant with whom the user is conducting the transaction. In still other implementations the record matching service may attempt to match the user only with a historical record associated with a geographic location e.g. specific to a particular country state postcode etc. of the merchant or of the user e.g. as may be determined by the user s Internet protocol address . On the other hand in some implementations the record matching service may attempt to match the user with a historical record from all of the historical records to which the record matching service has access. In some embodiments a particular scheme for partitioning the historical records e.g. by country by continent by age of the historical record etc. within the data store is determined based on what will allow the system of the present disclosure to identify the customer within a particular time threshold e.g. 50 milliseconds . In other words the historical records may be country specific and or merchant specific.

The set of results may be a set of user identifiers and or historical record identifiers for historical records associated with respective user identifiers and may include a score for each of the user identifiers reflecting a level of confidence that a supervised model of the record matching service has that the respective user identifier is associated with the same user as the user that input the details . The user interface may be a web based user interface such as a hypertext markup language page widget hypertext markup language form set of JavaScript code other web based technology or any combination of the above that allows communication between the user and the record matching service and or an online merchant. Alternatively the user interface may be a standalone application executing on a computing device such as a personal computer tablet computer a cellular phone or kiosk. The user interface may even be implemented as a remote procedure call in vote from a command line. The business rule management system may be a hardware and or software component configured to evaluate the results from the record matching service in order to determine an identity for the user associated with the details . In some implementations the business rule management systems may be a component of the record matching service .

For example when determining the identity of a user in order to complete a transaction for an online purchase and bill the online purchase to the correct person it may be important to set the cutoff value to 0.9 as is shown in the example . This may reflect that at least 90 of the decision trees of the supervised model see the supervised model of voted that the user associated with the details is the same as the user associated with a set of records having scores at or above the cutoff value . On the other hand in a case where the user identity is being determined to open a technical support ticket the cutoff value may be 0.51 suggesting that only 51 or more of the decision trees of the supervised model need agree that the user associated with the details is the same as a user associated with the set of records having scores at or above the cutoff value .

As shown in only one user user 58825 achieved a score at or above the cutoff value . Consequently the business rule management system may determine that the identity of the user associated with the input details correspond to user 58825. In cases where none of the results meet or exceed the cutoff value the business rule management system may respond to the merchant or to the user interface either that additional details are required in record to determine the user identity with sufficient certainty or that the user identity could not be determined. If the user identity is unable to be determined the merchant may consider the user to be a new user and consequently caused a new user ID to be generated for the current user.

In a situation where multiple user IDs receive scores above the cutoff value the business rule management system may select the highest scoring user ID as the user identity or may use some other scheme to select the user identity from the multiple user IDs e.g. selecting the second highest scoring user ID selecting a user ID corresponding to the most recent historical record selecting a user ID corresponding to the historical record with the highest price etc. . In some embodiments if multiple user IDs receive scores above the cutoff value the business rule management systems will request or cause the merchant to request additional details from the user in order to determine which of the multiple user IDs is associated with the current user. As an example if three different user IDs score above the cutoff value the current user may be asked to input his her phone number. In such an example the additional detail of a phone number may affect the scoring such that all but one user ID sinks below the cutoff And consequently that user ID may be determined as the user identity .

In some cases when multiple user IDs receive scores above the cutoff value the business rule management system may initiate a process for determining whether two or more of different user IDs in the results actually correspond to the same user and should be consolidated under a single user ID. An example of such a process may be to ask the user that entered the details to confirm details of past historical records.

Similar to the data store of the data store may be repository for data objects such as database records flat files and other data objects. The record matching service may be a system comprising various hardware and software configured to perform the functions of the search component the ranking component and the supervised model as a service to third parties such as merchants and or users of merchants.

The details may be a details about the current state of a user record provided to the record matching service by a merchant and or input by a user. The details may be similar to the details described in conjunction with and may include information such as an Internet protocol address of a computing device being used by a user an identity of a merchant one or more identities of items selected for purchase by the user user given name user family name postcode email address telephone number time of day date and other information. The search component may be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software configured to receive the details determine the set of search terms and may query the data store based on the set of search terms .

The search terms for example may be a value of a particular field e.g. given name field such as values of frank lars amy etc. may be a portion of a particular field e.g. domain part of an email address such as values of blazingmail.com example.org osu.edu etc. or combinations of values of one or more fields or portions of fields e.g. combination of given name and family name such as a value of winstonchurchill. The search terms may be normalized in other words they may be converted to upper or lower case whitespace may be added or removed letters with diacritic marks are converted to a non diacritic form or certain other types of characters may be removed e.g. nonnumeric characters in a telephone number may be removed . For example the details of Winston Churchill 10 Downing Street for given name family name and address fields may yield search terms such as winston normalized given name churchill normalized family name winstonchurchill combination of given name and family name 10 house number downing street name win first three letters of given name and dow first three letters of street name .. As another example an Internet protocol address may be transformed into a standard format e.g. xxx.xxx.xxx . As still another example nonnumeric characters may be removed from a phone number value e.g. 212 555 7665 converted to 2125557665 .

The matching records may be a set of historical records containing at least one match to a search based on at least one of the search terms . For example a historical record associated with the user Winnie Jones may be returned based on the first three letters of given name win mentioned above. A historical record may be a set of details corresponding to a record placed by a customer with a merchant. The set of details may be in the form of one or more database records a character delimited string or some other format.

The frequencies may be one or more of term frequencies inverse document frequencies or other values reflecting frequencies that each of the search terms occur within the entire set of historical records a particular record or a particular field in a record. Further details on frequencies may be found in the description of . However as an example in addition to the historical records matching win as the first three letters of the given name described above a value corresponding to the rarity of matching win in a first three letters of the given name may be passed as one of the frequencies . For example if the first three letters win occurs in the given name in 65 000 records out of 2 million historical records an inverse document frequency value of 4.9 may be passed to the ranking component to reflect the commonality of the search term. In other words the larger the inverse document frequency value the greater the likelihood that an individual will correspond to any given record that is retrieved using that search term.

The ranking component may be hardware software or combination of hardware and software configured to rank the matching records based on the received frequencies . The matching records may be ranked in various ways one example being to sum for each matching record the frequencies corresponding to search terms that were matched in the matching record. In other words for a record that only matches win in the first three characters of the full name of Winnie Jones the record may given a value of 4.9. Whereas a record for Copperknob Churchill full name at 10A Downing Street address that matches the family name churchill having an inverse document frequency of 21.5 and the street name of downing having an inverse document frequency of 34.7 may be given a value of 56.2. When the records are later ranked and filtered the record for Copperknob Churchill may consequently be ranked higher than Winnie Jones. 

Note that if a particular search term is not found matched in a particular historical record the frequency may be negative. So for the example of Winnie Jones the family name jones may have an inverse document frequency of 2.1. Therefore for every matching record in the matching records that does not contain the family name jones 2.1 may be subtracted from the rank calculation for that matching record. In a similar manner if a particular detail was not provided with the details or was left blank by a user a value of zero may be considered for that field. For example if the user associated with the details is Winnie Jones and a particular matching record has a blank or no value for family name the value of 2.1 may be neither added nor subtracted when computing the ranking that particular record i.e. the contribution of that field may be considered zero .

The top ranking records may then be provided to the supervised model . The top ranking records may be a predetermined number of the matching records with the highest rank values. The predetermined number may be a quantity determined to most likely include a record associated with the user corresponding to the details e.g. top 30 records top 100 records top five records etc. . The top ranking records passed to the supervised model may only include details such as a user identifier associated with the record and a frequency value for each search term matched in the particular top ranking record. In some cases an identifier for the top ranking historical record may also be included. However in some embodiments actual details search terms and field values of the top ranking records are not passed to the supervised model .

The supervised model may be a random forest generated based at least in part on a large number of historical records containing information about individual users e.g. population data which may or may not include the historical records stored in the data store . The supervised model may be a set of decision trees e.g. 1 000 trees generated as a result of an analysis of a large reference data set having at least some values that correspond to fields in the historical records of the data store . The decision nodes of each decision tree in the set of decision trees may be configured with a condition for evaluating the frequencies of fields that were matched in the top ranking records . The result of each evaluation may be a vote as to whether the particular top ranking record is e.g. vote of 1 or is not likely e.g. vote of 0 to be associated with the user of the details . Each decision tree of the set of decision trees may vote for each of the top ranking records and once each of the decision trees has voted for the top ranking record the number of votes for the top ranking record may be summed to yield a confidence score for the top ranking record . For example if 547 trees vote that a particular top ranking record is likely associated with the user of the details the confidence score output with the results may be 547. Note in some implementations the confidence score may be represented as a percentage or proportion of the total number of voting trees that is in the example above the confidence score may be output as 54.7 or 0.547 instead. In some implementations the records in set of top ranking records may be evaluated by the supervised model in series whereas in other implementations the records in the set of top ranking records may be evaluated by the supervised model in parallel

Note too that in some implementations each decision tree may be able to make more complex votes than a simple yes or no 1 or 0 . For example in some implementations a decision tree may output 1 for yes 1 for no and 0 for too close to call or indeterminable. In still another implementation each decision tree s vote may reflect the confidence that particular decision tree has that the particular top ranking record is associated with the user of details for example a particular decision tree may output 0.321 if it determines that the particular top ranking record is only 32.1 likely to be associated with the user of details . As with the binary vote described above such alternative implementations may be scored by adding the votes of each of the voting trees in the random forest. The results then may be similar to the results of and may include for example one or more of the top ranking records and in some cases a score for each of the top ranking records generated by the supervised model . Additional details about the decision trees in the supervised model may be found in the descriptions of . Note too that each decision tree may be linearized into a set of decision rules e.g. of the form if condition1 and condition2 and condition3 then return result1 if condition1 and condition2 and not condition3 then return result2 etc. .

In this example at the decision tree may compare the first input frequency value of 4.9 against a first threshold. Note that the first threshold may have been determined when the random forest of the supervised model was generated based on a data set and the likelihood to arrive at a ground truth based on a given frequency. For example the first threshold as determined when the random forest was generated maybe 4.3. In such a case the system traversing the decision tree may immediately precede to and cast a vote of confidence that the user associated with the particular details is the same user as the user associated the particular top ranking record. That is to say at a time when the decision tree was generated it may have been determined that if there is a match of the field associated with the first input e.g. given name with an inverse document frequency of 4.3 it is more likely than not that the user associated with the details and the user associated with the particular top ranking record is the same user. However if the first threshold is 5.1 then the system traversing the decision tree may proceed to whereupon the second input may be compared with a second threshold. If the second threshold value is 12.9 the system traversing the decision tree may proceed to because 21.5 is greater than 12.9.

In the third input may be compared with a third threshold. If for example the third threshold is 1.033 the system may proceed to to output of vote of confidence that the user associated with the details is the same as the user associated with the particular top ranking record because 1.3 is greater than 1.033. On the other hand in another example if the third threshold is 8.2 the system would proceed to to output a vote of no confidence.

However in the example of in if the second threshold is 35.5 because 21.5 is less than 35.5 the system traversing the decision tree may proceed to . As can be seen by inputs may be compared against thresholds multiple times while traversing the decision tree. Here the first input is again compared but this time against a different threshold a fourth threshold. Thus if the first input is greater than the fourth threshold the system traversing the decision tree may cast its vote of confidence in . Otherwise the system may instead proceed to and cast a vote of no confidence.

In the supervised model there may be multiple decision trees of various configurations making similar decisions as described above in parallel or in series with each other. After each of the decision trees in the supervised model have cast their votes the votes may be summed and a score based on the summation of votes for the particular top ranking historical record may be output. Note that in some implementations actual field values and or details may be provided to the supervised model and the decisions of the decision trees may be based on field values and or details rather than frequencies as described above. However an advantage provided by the supervised model making decisions based on frequencies instead of actual field values may be that decisions can be made without regard to certain differences between regions and cultures. For example in the United States the name Michael may be very common however in Argentina Michael may be much less common. On the other hand the name Santiago in Argentina may be common but in the United States may be uncommon. Therefore a supervised model based on frequencies may be agnostic as to the regional origin of the details and or location of the merchant.

Another advantage provided by passing frequency values to the supervised model instead of actual details or field values is that in a system where the supervised model is remotely located from or otherwise separate from the record matching service if the input to the supervised model is intercepted by an unauthorized entity little if any information about actual records or users would be compromised. Consequently the supervised model itself could be implemented as a separate standalone service for merchants. For example a merchant may have its own record matching system and may upload a set of frequencies in a manner similar to how the ranking component of provides frequencies to the supervised model and in response the supervised model service may provide results similar to the results back to the merchant.

An example operation of the example would be a case where a user is at a checkout screen of an online merchant preparing to purchase an expensive component e.g. television speakers 8 track tape player etc. for a home theater system. The payment preference model may determine based on details such as the expense of the items being purchased that it is highly likely that the user will want to pay for the purchase in installments and consequently the score output for that payment option may be the highest. As another example if the same user purchases a paperback book 15 minutes later the payment preference model may determine based on the relative inexpensiveness of the item being purchased compared to the previous purchase that the user is likely to prefer to pay for the paperback book with a credit card and consequently the credit card payment option may receive the highest score output by the payment preference model .

The example assumes that the user identity has already been determined or can be determined from the details in the manner described in the present disclosure e.g. process of . The details may be information corresponding to a transaction. For example a user may have selected one or more items for purchase from an online merchant. In such an example the details may include information such as identities of the items quantities of each item prices of the items postcode to which the items will be delivered and so on. The details may be transformed into one or more variables for use in determining the credit risk of the user and or potential payment preferences. Examples of such variables may be found in the table below 

The first variable name in email may be a Boolean variable indicating whether the given name and or family name of the user is found within the email address. If this variable is true this provides further indication that the email address is associated with the user and vice versa. The random forest of the supervised model may be trained to use this variable in making its determinations. The random forest may be trained on many more variables than those described above the variables listed above are listed for illustrative purposes. The variable estore group may be a variable for categorizing the items or services being purchased. For example a cellular phone may belong to an electronics estore group and a pair of shoes may belong to a clothing estore group. The variable seconds since midnight may be used to capture the time of day of the transaction which may affect preferred payment by the user. For example some users may not carry their credit card during working hours and consequently those users may choose to use a different payment type when making purchases during working hours.

The variable activation amount may refer to the total cost of the transaction. The variable tot debt may refer to the total amount currently owed to a creditor or merchant. The variable number different products may refer to the quantity of different products being purchased in the transaction. The variable days since last purchase 0 3 months may refer to the number of days since the most recent purchase in the last three months. The variable activation amount last purchase 0 3 months may refer to the total cost of the most recent purchase within the last three months. The variable stds dev from previous purchases may reflect how much the current transaction deviates in cost from previous transactions. The variable payment method last purchase 0 3 months may refer to the payment method used in the most recent purchase within the last three months. The variables n credit card 0 3 months n direct bank 0 3 months n prepay 0 3 months and n invoice 0 3 months may refer to the number of purchases made with credit card direct bank withdrawal prepay and invoice respectively in the last three months. These variable may be variables usable by the random forest of the supervised model.

The risk prediction system may be a hardware and or software component configured to perform a risk assessment of the user based on the user identity past information about the user and the details . For example if the user is a new user with no payment history the risk prediction system may determine that the risk that the user will default on payment is higher and consequently the value output in the user credit risk may reflect this risk. Similarly if the user had previously purchased only small value items but the purchase in the current transaction associated with the details is a very expensive purchase the risk prediction system may also determine that there is a moderate risk that the user will default on payment and consequently the user credit risk may be an output value reflecting this moderate risk. On the other hand if the user had previously purchased high value items and fulfilled paying for those items the risk prediction system may determine that the user is of low risk of defaulting on payment especially if the current transaction is of low value and consequently the user credit risk may be an output value reflecting this low risk.

The user credit risk may be a characteristic associated with the user identity that indicates a potential risk of default on payment by the user associated with the details . For example a user credit risk of 0.4 may be an estimate by the risk prediction system that the user associated with the details is 40 likely to default on payment. Similarly a user credit risk of 0.015 may reflect a confidence in the user e.g. only 1.5 likely to default . The user credit risk may be a numerical or string value. The user credit risk may be computed based on information about previous transactions associated with the user identity.

The options represent different payment options also referred to as payment types that could potentially be made available to the user in a user interface at checkout. A first option may be pay in X or PIX for short which is an option that allows the user to fulfill the payment obligations within a certain amount of time e.g. six months one week 60 days etc. . A second option may be a revolving account of credit. A third option may be a pay after delivery option. A fourth option may be to pay with a credit card. A fifth option may be to pay directly from a bank account. Note that these payment options are for illustrative use only and it is contemplated that other types of payment are also within the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore it is also contemplated that for some merchants or in some regions some of the options may be unavailable to the user in which case they may be omitted from being passed through the payment preference model or may be disregarded by the user interface displaying component .

Each of the options when processed by the system cause the system to perform a particular workflow in order to receive funds from the transaction. That is the system acts as an automatic payment system that receives payment based on the option used. For example upon selection by the user to pay with credit card the system may contact the computers associated with the brand of credit card in order to receive funds and ensure that the user is appropriately charged. Likewise if the customer selected an option from an interface that deducts the appropriate funds from a bank account the system may contact the user s bank to deduct the funds from the user s bank account. Or if the customer selected to pay in 14 days the system may wait to receive payment from the customer for up to 14 days.

The payment preference model may comprise hardware and or software that is configured to output predict a likelihood that the user associated with the details will select a particular purchase option for the transaction associated with the details . The scores A E may be computed by passing a set of inputs generated based on the details through a random forest that has been trained on a data set of information about past usage by other users. The inputs may be one or more values for one or more variables similar to the variables described above e.g name in email estore group seconds since midnight activation amount tot debt number different products days since last purchase 0 3 months activation amount last purchase 0 3 months stds dev from previous purchases payment method last purchase 0 3 months n credit card 0 3 months n direct bank 0 3 months n prepay 0 3 months and n invoice 0 3 months etc. .

As noted the random forest of the supervised model may have been trained from a data set that included at least some of these types of inputs. For example the training data set for the random forest may have fields for payment type email address time of day total number of different products debt currently owed by the user to the merchant amount of the purchase days since the previous purchase merchant identity product identity day of month etc. In this manner the payment preference of the user may be determined based in part on the behaviors of other users in similar situations according to variables similar to those described above. For example if the user is buying a home theater component at 10 24 PM and the most recent purchase by the user within the last three months was clothing and the user at that time is selected to pay in part the payment preference model may base its determination based on what past users in similar situations preferred e.g. as determined by the supervised model trained on such data . On the other hand if the user associated with the details is known to always pay with credit card that fact may influence the scores A E of the payment preference model. The set of scores A E may reflect a probability determined by the supervised model that the user will prefer a particular one of the options .

The user interface displaying component may be a component of the system configured to determine based on the set of scores A E and the user credit risk which of the user interfaces A C to display to the user associated with the details . The user interfaces A C may be web based or standalone applications having text or graphic controls e.g. HyperText Markup Language form fields dropdown boxes multiselect boxes radio buttons checkboxes images buttons hidden fields textboxes and other such form elements etc. for conducting and or finalizing a transaction such as between the user and an online merchant. In some embodiments the user interfaces are dynamically generated by the user interface displaying component . As an example of a flow if the user interface displaying component determines that the user credit risk is above a certain threshold e.g. because the user associated with the details does not have a reliable credit history the user interface displaying component may output an interface similar to the user interface A prompting the user to pay in advance before receiving ordered items.

On the other hand if the user interface displaying component determines that based on the user credit risk that the user is approved for credit the user interface displaying component may select from at least a couple of different potential user interfaces to display. For example one option may be to display a user interface B giving the user the option to buy now and decide how to pay later or another option may be to display a user interface C allowing the user to select how to pay from a number of options e.g. invoice revolve etc. . The user interface B may present the user with the buy that when clicked defaults to the payment preference option determined by the payment preference model however the user interface B may also include a link button or other control that can be clicked by the user to cause the user interface C to display in case the user desires to change the type of payment preferred. In some embodiments the user can click buy or equivalent interface control to confirm the default payment type and finalize the transaction and then change the payment type later. One of the purposes of the embodiment illustrated by the example is to present the user with a checkout screen based on a determination of what the user will prefer. Within the user interface displaying component may be a business rule management system similar to the business rule management system of configured to determine based on the user credit risk and the set of scores A E which of the user interfaces A C to display.

As an example if according to a database of historical records the user Henry Gibson always pays with a credit card the payment preference model may determine that this user is likely to want to pay with a credit card again and consequently the user interface displaying component may cause the user interface B to display along with the message to the effect of Paying with credit card on file. Alternatively the user interface displaying component may cause the user interface C to display but the option for Card may be preselected. Similarly based on the scores A E the options may be displayed in an order based on the scores A E in the user interface C.

Selection of a particular option or selection to buy by the user may cause an automated payment system to respond accordingly i.e. perform the appropriate workflow . For example if confirmation of the payment option by the user is received by the user interface the workflow for that payment option may be caused to be processed. For example if the payment option confirmed was a credit card payment the system may contact the appropriate systems of the credit card company so that the user is charged for the amount of the purchase so that the merchant can receive funds from the purchase. Likewise if the payment option confirmed was an invoice payment the system may generate and send an invoice to the user prompting the user to remit payment upon receipt.

In some embodiments the user identity determined by the system of the present disclosure is usable to deliver personalized content such as through a widget embedded in a webpage or through some other interface to the user. In these embodiments the content delivered may vary based on the confidence that the system has that the determined identity corresponds to the user. For example if the system has low confidence e.g. 30 that the user is the same as the closest matching user found in historical records and or the system determines that the credit risk is too high e.g. above a threshold the system may present a general less targeted content to the users such as a weather report for a region associated with the closest matching user or a simple welcome message e.g. Welcome to the checkout page . On the other hand if the system has a higher confidence e.g. 70 that the user is the same as the closest matching user found in historical records and or the system determines that the credit risk is sufficiently low e.g. below a threshold the system may present more targeted content e.g. We think you might be interested in our new baseball caps . Similarly if the system has a much higher confidence e.g. 95 that the user is the same as the closest matching user and or the system determines that the credit risk is very low e.g. below still another threshold the system may present even more specific content e.g. You have been preapproved for our credit products . In other words the cutoff value may be increased or decreased as needed based at least in part on the significance of consequences associated with an incorrect determination of a user identity.

The details may be a set of field values associated with a current transaction by a user. Some of the field values may be values input by a user into an online form e.g. given name family name postcode etc. whereas other field values may be related to a computing device being used to conduct the transaction e.g. Internet protocol address or other information related to the transaction e.g. date time etc. . The details may include information such as price time of day item type quantity and similar information related to the transaction.

The set of field values may further include information either identifying the user or usable at least in part to determine the identity of the user similar to the manner described for the process of . Therefore based on the set of field values additional information about the user may be obtained such as age of the user email address of the user whether the given name and or family name of the user is found within the email address of the user whether the user owes payment to the merchant for any previous purchases etc. In this manner the details may therefore include information about previous transactions purchases as may be determined by the record matching service in business rule management systems of . Information about previous transactions may be obtained from a data store not pictured that stores information about transactions by this and other users. In some cases this data store may be specific to an online merchant that is a party to the transaction whereas in other cases the data store may be a central data store for storing transactions between various users and various merchants.

The payment option may be a payment option similar to the payment options of e.g. pay in X credit card direct bank withdrawal etc. . The database may be a database for storing the set of historical records of previous purchase behavior by other users. For example the set of historical records may include data about previous purchases by previous users such as age of the users times of purchase prices at the time of purchase deviations of the purchase price from prices of previous transactions and so on. The supervised model may have been trained on similar historical data that is the random forest of the supervised model may been generated based on data containing similar types of data collected about previous purchases of users using the payment options chosen by those users as the ground truth. Consequently the decision trees of the supervised model may be configured to cast a vote for the likelihood of any given payment option e.g. the possible payment option to be the preferred method of payment by the user associated with the details .

The payment preference model may comprise one or more hardware and or software components for scoring payment options based on received details . Such components including the supervised model in the database . Although not depicted in some implementations similar to the supervised model of the record matching service described in reference to other embodiments in the present disclosure the payment preference model may include a search component that transforms the details into search terms. The search terms may be used to perform search queries on the database to return the set of historical records . In some implementations the set of historical records may also be returned with a set of frequencies not depicted reflecting how common the search terms are within the database . For example if name in email occurs 60 of the time a frequency corresponding to that search query may be returned to 0.6. In these implementations these frequencies may be passed through the random forest in order to obtain scores for each of the set of options without passing the actual details through the random forest.

The supervised model may as noted above be a random forest trained on a data set of previous purchases by other users. Each record of the data set having at least one field for a ground truth value one of which being the particular methods of payment preferred by the other users. Thus when the supervised model receives the set of details or set of inputs determined from the set of details each decision tree of the supervised model may vote on whether the set of details suggests that the associated user will prefer the payment option as a method of payment. The supervised model may then output the vote as the score for the payment option . This process may be repeated for each potential payment option thereby yielding a set of scores such as the scores of .

Some embodiments of the present disclosure may be used to determine an ideal balance between price reduction and customer conversion. For example when a price of a product is lowered the vendor of the product may make less profit per product sold but the lower price may attract more buyers thereby resulting in increased overall profit for the vendor. However at a certain point further lowering the price does not attract enough buyers to offset the cost of lowering the price e.g. if the price is lowered to zero the vendor ceases to make a profit even if the number of buyers are infinite . This may be true both for tangible goods credit products e.g. fees associated with offerings of credit and services.

The likelihood of consumers purchasing a given product based on its price may be expressed using a logarithmic curve. However each individual may have their own price points and their own curves. For example what Henry may pay for a product may be different than what Lars will be willing to pay for the same product and vice versa. In the present disclosure is contemplated that details about a purchaser and about the current transaction may be passed through a random forest of a supervised model to output a likelihood that the purchaser will be persuaded to complete the transaction at a given price. For example details such as an age of the user number of products in the current transaction and day of the month may affect the price sensitivity of the user. Therefore a random forest of the supervised model may be trained on a data set of historical purchases made by other users where a ground truth value for the data set is a Boolean value indicating whether the purchase was completed. In this manner the best price for a given product for a given user may be determined by passing details about the transaction through the supervised model. For example passing a name of the product a price age of the user and time of month each decision tree of a random forest of the supervised model may cast a vote whether the user will complete the purchase. A count of all the votes then may indicate a likelihood that the user will complete the purchase. Note that in some embodiments the supervised model is alternatively implemented using a regression model based on such historical purchase data instead of a random forest.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure may be used to determine using a supervised model the likelihood based on details associated with the transaction that a user will return one or more items ordered. For example a random forest of the supervised model may be trained on historical purchase data where a ground truth is a Boolean value indicating whether a particular purchased product was returned by the purchaser. The data mined for the current transaction in the historical purchase data include be data mined from the text of the item description. Detailed associated with the transaction and in the historical purchase data may be details such as the type of product the number of similar types of products purchased during the same transaction sizes of the products colors of the products the price of the product age of the purchaser day of the month season of the year and so on. For example if the user selects for purchase from an online merchant three pairs of the same type of shoes but in sizes 6 7 and 7 . By passing this information regarding the type and sizes of the products the supervised model may output a score suggesting that it is very likely that the user will return two of the pairs of shoes. The supervised model may even suggest that based on the differences in sizes that the user will most likely keep the size 7 pair and return the size 6 and 7 pairs. Similarly if the customer orders two sets of curtains that are identical except that they are different colors the supervised model may determine that the customer is likely to return one of the set of curtains.

Certain returns may be affected by the season of the year. For example returns for bathing suits may be higher during the summer or fall months then during the winter. Therefore based on these and other factors the supervised model may be able to indicate a likelihood that a user will return a particular product purchased. The supervised model may also be able to distinguish that some products may be more likely to be returned than others for example if the user orders packs of two different flavors of Ramen noodles the supervised model may determine that it is unlikely that the user will return either the Ramen noodles.

Based on this prediction various actions may be performed by the merchant and or a creditor. For example if a merchant runs low in stock for a particular item but the merchant expects based on the likelihood described above to be receiving some of the particular items back in a customer return the merchant may not need to immediately restock the particular item. Furthermore by avoiding the necessity of restocking the particular item the merchant may avoid having excess stock on hand when the returned items finally arrived. Another action that may be taken is that a creditor can extend a payment period based on the likelihood that the user will be returning one or more items. For example if the user was given 14 days to pay in full for a particular order but the supervised model indicated that it was likely that the user would return one of the items from the particular order additional time also referred to as slack period may be given to the user to pay in full e.g. 14 days extended to 28 days to allow time for the returned item to be delivered back to the merchant. In this manner a customer need not be inconvenienced by being billed for an item not kept. Additionally or alternatively additional credit may be added to the credit limit of the user because it is known that the user is not likely to be charged for the full value of the purchase or because it is known that the user will likely receive a credit from returning an item.

However if the user orders a large number of items and returns most of them the profit of the merchant may be reduced e.g. restocking costs shipping and handling costs labor and other costs . Therefore another benefit provided by this embodiment may be that payment options may be dynamically adjusted based on a likelihood of return. For example if the user orders dresses and the supervised model determines that it is likely that the user will return 75 of the dresses the merchant may demand pre payment by the user in order to complete the purchase rather than allowing the user to pay by credit card.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure may be used to predict future purchases by the user. For example a web application such as a software widget embedded into merchant web pages may be configured to collect information about the products the user is viewing through a browser and or selecting for potential purchase. From this information a supervised model may be able to determine the likelihood of a purchase of a particular item at a particular price by the particular user. For example if the software widget as described above is utilized by five different online electronic stores and detects that the user has viewed 32 inch televisions at each of the sites the supervised model may detect the pattern and indicate that it is very probable that the user will soon purchase a television in the near future and probably a 32 inch one. Based on this information a merchant may configure an online store to offer various incentives to the user upon a return visit to the site by the user. For example if the user had previously been browsing 32 inch televisions during a previous session upon revisiting the site the user may be presented with an offer of 20 off on the purchase of a 32 inch television.

The random forest of the supervised model may be trained on historical purchase data that includes data about previous web pages browsed by an individual prior to a purchase time period between visiting such web pages and the time of actual purchase categories of products browsed category of product purchased and so on. The data may also include data about webpages browsed by an individual that did not result in a purchase. For example if an individual browsed multiple product pages for 32 inch televisions within a certain price range and the individual was not subsequently detected as having purchased a television at least within a predetermined range of time this information may be collected and may be usable in conjunction with the supervised model to determine how much to lower a price for a particular product in order to increase conversion of consumers. As noted above data may be mined from the product description text for training the random forest of the supervised model.

Moreover benefits of these embodiments further include providing merchants with forecasting data. For example if the software widget described above detected based on received browsing data from multiple users that 100 of those users are likely to purchase a 32 inch television within the next week from a particular merchant the merchant can be notified by the system of the present disclosure so as to be prepared to have 100 32 inch televisions on hand in preparation for the purchases. In some embodiments an advantage is that the widget may be utilized by multiple merchants in their webpages in order to take advantage of cross merchant browsing by potential customers.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure may be used to predict non completion of purchases which may provide an opportunity to a merchant to make an adjustment to an offer as an incentive to a prospective purchaser to complete the transaction. In these embodiments a random forest of a supervised model may be trained on data collected at checkout for an online purchase. The ground truth value for the random forest may be whether the purchase was completed or not. Thus based on data collected at checkout such as total price number of items types of items last date of a previous purchase by the user payment type used for the previous purchase by the user browser type device type being used for the purchase e.g. mobile phone personal computer etc. Internet protocol address time of day day of month and so on the supervised model may predict whether the user is likely to complete the purchase or abandon the purchase. In a case where the supervised model indicates that it is likely that the user will abandon the purchase or abandon at least a portion of the purchase e.g. removing certain items from the shopping cart the system may be configured to present the user with incentives deemed likely to persuade the user to complete the purchase e.g. six month grace period to pay for the purchase low interest terms discount on next purchase etc. .

Some embodiments of the present disclosure may be used to predict whether additional security or authentication information should be obtained from the user e.g. via 3 D Secure protocol prior to completing the purchase. That is based on data collected a supervised model may determine a likelihood of fraud in the transaction and as a result determine whether to prompt the user for further assurances e.g. Social Security number challenge response authentication etc. . In some cases the supervised model may aid in determining whether based on a given likelihood of risk of fraud whether the user is likely to be discouraged from completing the transaction if prompted for further assurances. That is the merchant may determine that it is worth the risk up to a threshold of likelihood to proceed with the transaction without further assurances if the likelihood that further assurances would cause the user to abandon the transaction is too high e.g. above another threshold .

Some or all of process may be performed for example by any suitable system such as the computing device described in conjunction with . The process includes a series of operations wherein a request is received to determine the identity of a user the data provided in the request is transformed into a set of search terms a frequency value is generated for each of the search terms and a set of historical records is determined based in part on the frequency value. The set of historical records is run through a supervised model of the present disclosure and an output set of user identities IDs .

In the system performing the process receives an electronic request to validate the user identity associated with the set of details. In some examples electronic request may refer to a request initiated by a computer system or component of the computer system to another computer system or component of the other computer system. Examples of electronic requests include application programming interface calls and remote procedure calls. At least a portion of the set of details may be included with the electronic request which may be submitted to the system through an application programming interface. As noted details may include details about user and or a record in the process of being placed such as given first name e.g. John Henry Lars Erik etc. family last name e.g. McClane Gibson Jansson Knutsson etc. billing or delivery address parts e.g. street number street name city name apartment flat number etc. email address telephone number Internet protocol address and birthdate. In embodiments of the system of the present disclosure one or more of the details are indexed for more efficient searching. In addition combinations of one or more of the details may also be indexed. For example an address combination e.g. a combination of the first three letters in a street address a house number and a postcode a birthdate and given name combination e.g. 1976 11 19henry etc. and or a birthdate and family name combination e.g. 1976 11 19gibson and given family name combination e.g. henrygibson etc. may be indexed additionally or alternatively.

Note that although the present disclosure describes using details to identify a user who is a customer of an online merchant the techniques described in the present disclosure may also be used to identify a user in other contexts. For example rather than details the electronic request may include the text content of an article i.e. piece of writing . The techniques of the present disclosure may be utilized to determine the probability that the article was written by the same author as another article indexed and stored in the system database. Or as still another example the techniques of the present disclosure may be utilized to determine the probability that a person signing up for a particular service e.g. social media service email service etc. has the same identity as an identity associated with other details stored in the database based on input provided via a validation request of .

In the values provided in the request parameters may be transformed into search queries. Values for some of the request parameters may be transformed into only a single search query for example a postcode of 90210 may only be transformed into a search for postcode that matches 90210. However other request parameters may be transformed into multiple search queries for example a given name may be transformed into a query for the given name and another query for the first three letters of the given name e.g. Katherine and kat . As another example a given name and a family name may be transformed into queries for the given name the family name combination of the given name and the family name i.e. given name first and a combination of the family name and the given name i.e. family name first . As still another example a hyphenated given name and or family name may be split into multiple queries e.g. John Henry transformed into separate given name queries for John and Henry Spencer Churchill transformed into separate family name queries for Spencer and Churchill .

Also in the values provided in the request parameters may be normalized in the search queries. For example text may be converted into all upper or lower case white space may be removed e.g. all white space leading or trailing white space etc. certain character types may be removed e.g. nonnumeric characters may be removed from a telephone number non alpha characters may be removed from a given name or family name etc. or Internet protocol address may be normalized to a canonical format.

In a set of records in the data set e.g. historical records from users matching any of the search queries may be obtained. In the above example for Kelly Taylor residing in postcode 90210 the set of records may include all records matching the given name Kelly all records matching the family name Taylor and all records matching the postcode 90210. In this example the total count of records may be determined to be 250 000 e.g. some of the records may overlap .

In for each of the set of records determined in a term frequency is computed for each of the search queries determined in . Term frequency may refer to a number of occurrences of a search term within a particular search field. In the present disclosure however terms are typically found within a particular search field only once or not at all. For example for a given record the given name field will either match the given name search query e.g. john in which case the term frequency for the given document will be 1 for the given name search query or it will not match in which case the term frequency for the given document will be 0 for the given name search query.

In an inverse document frequency IDF value may be computed for each of the search terms. The IDF is based on the premise that the rarer the match the greater the probability that the record is associated with the user being validated. IDF values may be computed in a number of ways one of which may be according to one of the following formulas. In a case where the term matched within a record the IDF value may be computed as 

In a case where the term is not found i.e. not matched within a record the IDF value may be computed as 

In a case where the term is not provided or missing from the details e.g. a middle name field was left blank by the user or otherwise not provided to the record matching service IDF term 0

The frequency in these cases refers to a count of records that match the respective term in the search of the data set. For example a query may be generated to obtain a count of records where the given name field matches john in a data set containing 1 million records of user information. Such a query may return a result count of 32 716. Whereas a query to obtain a count of records where the given name matches Darrell in the data set may return a result count of 780 indicating that John is a much more common name than Darrell. As another example a set of details may include a given name of Kelly a family name of Taylor and a postcode of 90210. From a data set of 35 million user records a given name count of 60 550 records matching given name Kelly may be obtained a family name count of 108 850 records matching the family name Taylor may be obtained and a postcode count of 185 864 records matching the postcode 90210.

In the above examples IDF john 1.485 and IDF darrell 3.107 reflecting that the uniqueness of the given name Darrell is greater than John. The inverse document frequency value may be usable for determining the likelihood that the user associated with the current details is associated with one or more of the matching records. In the example above for Kelly Taylor IDF kelly 9.175 IDF taylor 8.329 and IDF 90210 7.557.

In for each of the records that contains at least one occurrence that matches a search query a rank may be determined based on rank calculation. Various permutations of ranking are possible. In one example the rank calculation for each document may be the sum of the term frequencies i.e. 1 or 0 in the document multiplied by the IDF for the term 

Where match in record term is 1 if the search query finds the term in the respective field of the record is 1 if the search query does not find the term in the respective field of the record and 0 if the search term is blank or was not provided in the details. Using the above IDF s as an example a record with the given name field matching kelly and a family name field matching taylor but not matching a postcode field of 90210 would yield a rank calculation of 9.947 1 9.175 1 8.329 1 7.557 . A record with the family name field matching taylor and the postcode field matching 90210 but the given name field was left blank would yield a rank calculation of 15.886 0 9.175 1 8.329 1 7.557 . Whereas a record with the given name field matching Kelly the family name field matching taylor and the postcode field matching 90210 would yield a rank calculation of 25.061 1 9.175 1 8.329 1 7.557 . These rank calculations may be used to rank and filter out records that are unlikely to be associated with the user. For example out of all of the records that contain at least one occurrence matching a search query only a threshold number e.g. 30 100 5 etc. of the highest ranking records may be retained and passed to the supervised model.

Thus in for each of the highest ranking records a user ID associated with the record and the IDF s for each of the fields may be passed to the supervised model which may then generate a score for each of the highest ranked records reflecting the likelihood that the user is associated. As noted the supervised model may be a random forest derived from a reference data set with records having at least some fields of the same type e.g. given name family name address phone number etc. as the fields in the set of records searched above. In some cases the set of records searched may include the reference data set that was used to generate the supervised model. Each of the records in the reference data set may have at least one ground truth value. In the context of the present disclosure the ground truth value is a value that absent malicious or inadvertent use of the value e.g. identity theft uniquely or otherwise unambiguously corresponds to a target value objective which in many embodiments of the present disclosure is an identity of the user. For example in some countries each citizen is allocated a unique identification number e.g. a Social Security number in the United States and Switzerland the Nigerian National Identification Number in Nigeria the Population Identification Code in Thailand etc. . Such a unique information value may serve as ground truth in a data set for identifying a user. Note in some cases it may be possible for multiple ground truth values to correspond to a single target. For example if a user holds both a social security number from the United States and a social insurance number from Canada both numbers may be considered ground truth values because they unambiguously identify the individual to whom they are assigned. Thus the random forest of the supervised model may be generated trained from such a data set also referred to as a training data set in a manner such that given a set of matching and or mismatching details a likelihood of whether the details correspond to a ground truth can be determined. For example the process generating the random forest may determine that the combination of a given name and a family name is a much more likely predictor of ground truth than the given name and the family name alone.

Furthermore the process that generates the random forest may determine based on training data that an email address is even a more likely predictor of ground truth than the combination of given name and family name. Consequently the score generated by the supervised model for each of the records may reflect the likelihood that the record is associated with the user that entered the current set of details based at least in part on the one or more fields matched and or mismatched. More detail regarding the supervised model may be found in the description of . By training the supervised model on a data set with a ground truth value for a user identity as well as other details about the user corresponding to the user identity the supervised model can be configured to determine whether a user corresponds to a set of details in a data set that lacks a ground truth value such as a data set of historical records.

Finally in the system performing the process may provide one or more user identifiers associated with the records that scored the highest number of votes by the supervised model as output in response to the electronic request for validation of . Note that in some implementations rather than a user identifier the system provides a record identifier corresponding to the top scoring record. In still other implementations the system provides additional data such as a confidence score indicating the confidence the supervised model has that the user associated with the details is the same user associated with the respective record or user identifier.

For example a user may enter details and based on the details the supervised model may give a confidence score reflecting a 40 confidence that the user is the same user as a particular existing user. Because 40 confidence suggests that it is 60 likely that the user is not the same the system performing the process may conclude that the safest course of action is to treat the user as a new user and assign a new user identifier to the user. Note that one or more of the operations performed in may be performed in various orders and combinations including in parallel.

In a set of details may be received by the system performing the process . As described the set of details may correspond to a transaction between a user and a merchant and may include such details as the user s given name the user s family name postcode email address Internet protocol address of a computing device being used in the transaction and a timestamp.

In based on the information in the set of details an identity of the user may be determined such as by a process similar to the process of . Based on the user s identity information about previous purchases by the user may be obtained from for example a merchant database configured to store information about purchases. Information about previous purchases may include a date of the most recent purchase within the last three months whether the most recent purchase within the last three months has been fully paid for payment method used in the most recent purchase within the last three months total amount of purchase of the most recent purchase within last three months standard deviation of previous purchase prices and other information based on previous transactions.

In one or more user characteristics may be computed based upon information received or obtained in . One of the characteristics may be a credit risk of the user that is a value that corresponds to a likelihood that the user may default on payment for the purchase. For example if the user is a new customer of the merchant the user may have insufficient payment history to support consideration of the customer as a low credit risk. Consequently a new customer may be given a high credit risk value. Likewise an existing customer who has previously defaulted on payment may likewise be given a high credit risk value. On the other hand an existing customer with an extensive credit history of making good on payments for purchases may be given a low credit risk value indicating that such customer is unlikely to default on payment.

In if the user s credit risk is deemed too high e.g. the credit risk value exceeds a threshold the user may be presented with a user interface on checkout in informing the user that pre payment for the purchase is necessary before the transaction can be completed. Otherwise the system performing the process may proceed to whereupon for each of a set of possible payment types options the system may compute a score reflecting a likelihood that the user will prefer that payment type. The score may be calculated based at least on inputs derived from the set of details including information about previous purchases . The score may be calculated by passing the inputs to decision trees of a random forest of the supervised model that has been trained on data from previous purchases by various users and counting the votes of the decision trees. As noted the training data used to train the supervised model in this embodiment may include one or more ground truth values for each record at least one of which corresponding to the payment type selected by the particular users of the previous purchases. In other words a ground truth value for payment type uniquely or otherwise unambiguously corresponds to the payment type used selected for the transaction. Note too that in some implementations the supervised model does not utilize decision trees. For example the supervised model may be implemented as a set of na ve Bayes classifiers a linear set of decision rules or as a multinomial logistic regression.

In the user interface may be determined based on the set of scores computed for the set of payment options. In some implementations the user interface may be a user interface selected from a plurality of different user interfaces. In other implementations the user interface may be dynamically generated. For example given a set of five different payment options the payment options may be presented to the user in the user interface in an order e.g. decreasing increasing etc. corresponding to the scores and the highest scoring payment option may be selected by default.

Finally in the system performing the process may provide the user interface determined in to the user e.g. at checkout . Upon selection or confirmation of a payment options displayed in the user interface the system performing the process may initiate the workflow that corresponds to the selected confirmed payment option. Note that one or more of the operations performed in may be performed in various orders and combinations including in parallel.

In details from potential purchase may be received by the system performing the process . For example the user may be browsing an online store of the merchant and may have selected one or more items for purchase causing the items to be placed into a virtual shopping cart basket. At the time the operations in are performed the user may have clicked a button to proceed to a checkout stage of the transaction. However it is contemplated that the process may be performed at various other stages during the online shopping experience such as after the purchase is finalized or each time the user adds a new item to the virtual shopping cart basket. Details received by the system of the process may include information such as for each item in the virtual shopping cart basket item type item description item color item size quantity of item item price and so on. Other details received by the system may include information such as Internet protocol address of the user device being used by the user to conduct the transaction date and or time of day. Still other details received by the system may be details about the user and or previous purchases made by the user which may be obtained in a manner similar to obtaining information from historical orders described elsewhere in the present disclosure such as date of previous purchase amount still owed by user for the previous purchase return history of the user e.g. whether the user is known to frequently that is above a certain threshold return purchased items payment type used for previous purchases payment type being used for the current purchase locality of the user and so on.

In the first item in the shopping cart basket of the user may be examined or if the system performing the process is returning from the next item in the shopping cart basket . In details regarding the user e.g. age gender etc. the current item e.g. price color size etc. other items e.g. quantity of other items prices of other items sizes colors of other items style model of other items etc. in the shopping cart basket and other details about the transaction e.g. date time etc. may be passed to a supervised model trained on similar data. The similar data from which the supervised model was trained may have been a historical data set containing records of previous purchases by various users whether those users returned items and if so which items were returned.

The supervised model may return a result that indicates a likelihood that the item will be returned. For example a result of 0.6 may suggest that there is a 60 likelihood that the user will return the item. Consequently in if a result received from the supervised model indicates a sufficient likelihood e.g. above a predetermined threshold such as 75 that the item will be returned the system performing the process may proceed to whereupon the system may perform an appropriate action as a result.

An appropriate action may include notifying the merchant of the likely return thereby allowing the merchant to manage inventory accordingly e.g. if the merchant sells out of the particular item the merchant may expect to receive another item into stock from the return . Another appropriate action may be to change add or remove a promotion for the transaction. For example if the item is deemed by the supervised model to be likely e.g. above a threshold to be returned a free shipping promotion may be canceled for the transaction or the user may be encouraged to add an additional item to the transaction that is less likely to be returned. Still another appropriate action may be to present the user with different payment options then may have otherwise been presented had the risk of return been less likely with the different payment options being better able to mitigate the extra cost of managing the return. For example the user may be prompted to prepay for the order or the user may be presented with an offer to insure the shipment of the item for a fee.

Yet another appropriate action may include adjusting a payment period for the purchase. For example if the user selected a payment type whereby the customer would pay in full after 14 days the payment due date may be extended to 28 days to account for a delay in payment due to the likely return. That is rather than receiving a notification by the merchant on the 15day requesting payment the merchant may delay its demand until the 29day. Even another appropriate action may include the creditor temporarily increasing the credit limit of the user. For example if the user purchases 5 000 worth of goods and is determined likely to return 1 000 worth of goods from that purchase the creditor may increase the credit limit of the user by 1 000 in order to not penalize the user for goods which are likely in transit for return back to the merchant.

Otherwise if the supervised model does not indicate sufficient likelihood of a return of the item the system performing the process may instead proceed to whereupon the system may determine whether the current item being examined is the last item in the user s virtual shopping cart basket. If not the system may return to to examine the next item in the user s virtual shopping cart basket. If so the system may proceed to whereupon the transaction may be finalized e.g. payment processed confirmation email sent to user bill of material generated and sent to merchant for processing etc. .

Note that it is contemplated that rather than iterating through each item in a user s virtual shopping cart basket the supervised model may be configured to evaluate the potential purchase as a whole to determine whether at least a portion of the purchase is likely to be returned by the user rather than an item by item determination. Note too that unless otherwise specified use of expressions regarding executable instructions also referred to as code applications agents etc. performing operations that instructions do not ordinarily perform unaided e.g. transmission of data calculations etc. in the context of describing disclosed embodiments denote that the instructions are being executed by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform the specified operations.

The bus subsystem may provide a mechanism for enabling the various components and subsystems of computing device to communicate with each other as intended. Although the bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses. The network interface subsystem may provide an interface to other computing devices and networks. The network interface subsystem may serve as an interface for receiving data from and transmitting data to other systems from the computing device . For example the network interface subsystem may enable a data technician to connect the device to a wireless network such that the data technician may be able to transmit and receive data while in a remote location such as a user data center. The bus subsystem may be utilized for communicating data such as details search terms and so on to the supervised model of the present disclosure and may be utilized for communicating the output of the supervised model to the one or more processors and to merchants and or creditors via the network interface .

The user interface input devices may include one or more user input devices such as a keyboard pointing devices such as an integrated mouse trackball touchpad or graphics tablet a scanner a barcode scanner a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for inputting information to the computing device . User interface output devices may include a display subsystem a printer or non visual displays such as audio output devices etc. The display subsystem may be a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED display or a projection or other display device. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for outputting information from the computing device . The output device s may be used for example to present user interfaces to facilitate user interaction with applications performing processes described herein and variations therein when such interaction may be appropriate.

The storage subsystem may provide a computer readable storage medium for storing the basic programming and data constructs that may provide the functionality of at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. The applications programs code modules instructions that when executed by one or more processors may provide the functionality of one or more embodiments of the present disclosure and may be stored in the storage subsystem . These application modules or instructions may be executed by the one or more processors . The storage subsystem may additionally provide a repository for storing data used in accordance with the present disclosure. The storage subsystem may comprise a memory subsystem and a file disk storage subsystem .

The memory subsystem may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions may be stored. The file storage subsystem may provide a non transitory persistent non volatile storage for program and data files and may include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM drive an optical drive removable media cartridges and other like storage media.

The computing device may include at least one local clock . The local clock may be a counter that represents the number of ticks that have transpired from a particular starting date and may be located integrally within the computing device . The local clock may be used to synchronize data transfers in the processors for the computing device and all of the subsystems included therein at specific clock pulses and may be used to coordinate synchronous operations between the computing device and other systems in a data center. In one embodiment the local clock is an atomic clock. In another embodiment the local clock is a programmable interval timer.

The computing device may be of various types including a portable computer device tablet computer a workstation or any other device described below. Additionally the computing device may include another device that may be connected to the computing device through one or more ports e.g. USB a headphone jack Lightning connector etc. . The device that may be connected to the computing device may include a plurality of ports configured to accept fiber optic connectors. Accordingly this device may be configured to convert optical signals to electrical signals that may be transmitted through the port connecting the device to the computing device for processing. Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of the computing device depicted in is intended only as a specific example for purposes of illustrating the preferred embodiment of the device. Many other configurations having more or fewer components than the system depicted in are possible.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected when unmodified and referring to physical connections is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The use of the term set e.g. a set of items or subset unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context is to be construed as a nonempty collection comprising one or more members. Further unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context the term subset of a corresponding set does not necessarily denote a proper subset of the corresponding set but the subset and the corresponding set may be equal.

Conjunctive language such as phrases of the form at least one of A B and C or at least one of A B and C unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise clearly contradicted by context is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either A or B or C or any nonempty subset of the set of A and B and C. For instance in the illustrative example of a set having three members the conjunctive phrases at least one of A B and C and at least one of A B and C refer to any of the following sets A B C A B A C B C A B C. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C each to be present.

Operations of processes described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. Processes described herein or variations and or combinations thereof may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for embodiments of the present disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the scope of the present disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

