---

title: Portable apparatus having electrical power receptacles and device charging ports
abstract: A portable apparatus that provides electrical power receptacles and device charging ports. The portable apparatus has a base member and a plurality of post members connected to the base member. Each post member has an electrical power receptacle that provides electrical power and an electrical power device having a device charging port that provides a voltage suitable for charging and powering devices such as cell phones, cameras, iPads, Ipods and similar devices. In a preferred embodiment, the electrical power device includes an additional electrical power receptacle. Each post member has an interior region and electrical wiring located with the interior region which provides electrical power to the electrical power receptacles and the electrical power device. The portable apparatus also has a top member connected to the post members and an intermediate support member that is attached to the post members and located between the top member and the base member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09362696&OS=09362696&RS=09362696
owner: Premier Manufacturing Group, Inc.
number: 09362696
owner_city: Shelton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150707
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 728 055 filed Dec. 27 2012. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 728 055 and the entire disclosure thereof are hereby incorporated by reference into this present application.

The present invention relates to a portable apparatus for providing electrical power receptacles and device charging ports.

Apparatuses and devices that provide electrical power receptacles are known in the art. Examples of such apparatuses and devices are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. Des. 372 018 Des. 389 459 6 042 426 and 7 760 516.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a portable apparatus that provides electrical power receptacles and device charging ports.

In one aspect the present invention is directed to a portable apparatus for providing electrical power receptacles and device charging ports. The portable apparatus comprises a base member and a plurality of post members connected to the base member. Each post member comprises at least one electrical power receptacle that provides electrical power and at least one electrical power device that comprises at least one device charging port. The device charging port provides a relatively lower voltage suitable for charging and powering devices such as cell phones smart phones digital cameras iPads Ipods and similar devices. In a preferred embodiment the electrical power device also includes an additional electrical power receptacle. Each post member has an interior region and internal electrical wiring located in the interior region. The electrical wiring provides electrical power to the electrical power receptacles and the electrical power device. The portable apparatus also has a top member connected to the plurality of post members and an intermediate support member that is attached to the plurality of post members and located between the top member and the base member.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to a portable apparatus for providing electrical power comprising a base member a plurality of hollow post members connected to the base member at least one electrical power receptacle on each hollow post member at least one electrical power device on each hollow post member wherein each electrical power device comprises at least one device charging port. Electrical conductors or wires are electrically connected to the electrical power receptacle and the electrical power device so as to provide electrical power to the electrical power receptacle and the electrical power device. In a preferred embodiment the device charging port comprises a USB charging port.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to a portable apparatus for providing electrical power comprising a base member a plurality of hollow post members connected to the base member and at least one electrical power device on each hollow post member wherein the electrical power device comprises at least one device charging port. Electrical conductors or wires are electrically connected to each electrical power device so as to provide electrical power to the electrical power devices. In a preferred embodiment the at least one device charging port comprises a USB charging port.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the ensuing description claims and accompanying drawings.

Referring to there is shown portable apparatus for providing electrical power in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Portable apparatus comprises base member and a plurality of post members attached to base member . Each post member comprises an interior region that extends throughout post member . Each post member further includes at least one electrical power receptacle and electrically conductive members or wires that are located within interior region and electrically connected to the electrical power receptacle see . These electrically conductive members or wires are described in detail in the ensuing description. In a preferred embodiment electrical power receptacles are configured to provide 110 120 VAC. However it to be understood that electrical power receptacles may be configured to provide other voltages as well. In a preferred embodiment each post member has a plurality of electrical power receptacles . In a further embodiment each post member has only one electrical power receptacle . In another embodiment only one post member has an electrical power receptacle . In a preferred embodiment each electrical power receptacle is a tamper resistant electrical power receptacle. In one embodiment each electrical power receptacle is configured as a tamper resistant electrical power receptacle manufactured by Cooper Wiring Devices of Peachtree City Ga.

In a preferred embodiment post members are equidistantly spaced. In a preferred embodiment apparatus comprises three post members . In another embodiment there are more than three post members . In a further embodiment there are just two post members . In a preferred embodiment each post member is angulated with respect to base member in accordance with a predetermined angulation so that post members are angulated inward toward each other see . In a preferred embodiment the degree of angulation with respect to base member is between about 5 and 25 . In a preferred embodiment base member and each post member are fabricated from metal e.g. steel aluminum iron etc. However other suitable materials may be used e.g. plastic resin etc.

As shown in apparatus further comprises a top member . Top member comprises a plate member that has top side and bottom side . Top end of each post member is attached to bottom side of the aforementioned plate member. Top side and bottom side are substantially flat. Each post member includes a bottom end that is attached to base member see . As shown in top member is substantially parallel to base member . In a preferred embodiment top member is fabricated from metal e.g. steel aluminum etc. However other suitable materials may be used to fabricate top member such as plastic resin rubber etc. Base member is discussed in detail in the ensuing description.

Referring to each post member further comprises electrical power device that comprises at least one charging device . Charging device comprises power conversion circuitry that converts 115 120 VAC to a relatively lower voltage that can be used to charge and power devices such as cell phones smart phones tablets e readers digital recorders cameras iPads iPods MP3 players etc. Charging device comprises at least one device charging port . In one embodiment charging device comprises two device charging ports . In another embodiment charging device comprises more than two device charging ports . The device to be charged e.g. smart phone is plugged into a device charging port . In a preferred embodiment each device charging port comprises a USB charging port. In one embodiment electrical power device is configured so that each USB charging port provides 5 VAC 700 mA milliamperes . However it is to be understood that electrical power device can be configured to provide other voltage levels and currents. For example in an alternate embodiment electrical power device is configured so that the USB charging port provides 5 VAC 500 mA. In a preferred embodiment electrical power device comprises an additional electrical power receptacle that also provides 115 120 VAC. In one embodiment electrical power device is a commercially available model no. TR7740 W USB charger with a tamper resistant receptacle manufactured by Cooper Wiring Devices of Peachtree City Ga.

In a preferred embodiment each post member has a face portion that is substantially flat and faces outward. Each electrical power receptacle is located in face portion . Similarly each electrical power device is in face portion . Specifically each face portion has one or more openings formed therein which are sized to receive electrical power receptacles and electrical power devices . In one embodiment electrical power receptacles and electrical power devices are frictionally fitted within the corresponding openings in face portion . In an alternate embodiment only one post member has a face portion . In a further embodiment only two post members have face portions .

As shown in each electrical power receptacle has portion A that extends into interior region of post member . Portion A has electrical contact for the connection of hot electrical wire A. Portion A also has an electrical contact not shown for the connection of neutral electrical wire B. Similarly each electrical power device has portion A that extends into interior region of post member . Portion A includes electrical contacts for the connection of hot electrical wires A and A. Neutral electrical wire B is also electrically connected to an electrical contact not shown on electrical power device . Neutral electrical wire B is connected to the same electrical contact not shown on electrical power device to which neutral electrical wire B is connected. The electrical power receptacle and electrical power device are connected in parallel. Electrical wires A and B provide electrical power to electrical power device . Electrical power device includes internal wiring that provides this electrical power to charging device and electrical power receptacle . Electrical power receptacle also includes electrical contact . Ground wires and are connected to electrical contact . Ground wire is also connected to post member via a connector or a screw and nut combination or any other suitable technique. Electrical power device includes electrical contact . Ground wires and are connected to electrical contact . As shown in electrical power receptacle and electrical power device are removably attached to post member via screw mounts and nuts .

Referring to apparatus further comprises intermediate support member that is attached to post members and located between base member and top member . Intermediate support member is substantially parallel to base member and top member . Intermediate support member comprises a plate member that has a plurality of openings A therein. Each post member is disposed through a corresponding one of openings A. As shown in intermediate support member is attached to post members by L shaped brackets A and screws B. In a preferred embodiment intermediate member is fabricated from metal e.g. steel aluminum etc. However other suitable materials may be used to fabricate intermediate member such as plastic resin rubber etc.

Referring to base member comprises upper plate member which has a first perimeter top side and bottom side . Base member further includes wall structure that is attached to bottom side of upper plate member . Base member also includes lower plate member which has a second perimeter a top side and bottom side . Wall structure is attached to top side of lower plate member such that wall structure is positioned between upper plate member and lower plate member . Any suitable technique may be used to attach wall structure to bottom side of upper plate member and to top side of lower plate member . Wall structure has a perimeter that is less than the first perimeter of upper plate member and less than the second perimeter of lower plate member so as to define space between upper plate member and lower plate member . Space extends about wall structure . As shown in wall structure defines interior region . is a bottom view of portable apparatus with lower plate member removed so as to facilitate viewing of interior region . Upper plate member has openings formed therein wherein each opening is aligned with interior region of a corresponding post member . Apparatus includes circuit breaker that is mounted within an opening in wall structure and includes reset switch that is accessible to the user. Electrical power cable is secured to wall structure by strain relief clamp . Electrical power cable has plug portion which is configured to be plugged into an external electrical power receptacle not shown that provides between 110 and 120 VAC. In one embodiment electrical power cable is a three wire 14 gauge electrical power cable. The hot electrical power wire of power cable extends to circuit breaker . The hot electrical power wire is electrically connected to circuit breaker and electrical connector . The hot electrical conductive wires A see within the interior region of each post member extends into interior region and are electrically connected to electrical connector . Neutral wires B see within interior region of each post member extend into interior region and are electrically connected to electrical connector . As shown in electrical ground wires extend from each post member into interior region of wall structure and are electrically connected to electrical ground connector . Electrical ground connector is conductively connected to upper plate member . Electrical power cable includes a grounding wire that is connected to electrical ground connector . Electrical ground connector is conductively connected to upper plate member .

Referring to space allows electrical power cable to be wrapped around wall structure and remain in space . In a preferred embodiment plug portion of electrical power cable includes magnet attached thereto which can be magnetically attached to either upper plate member or lower plate member . Magnet allows plug portion to be conveniently and removably attached to upper plate member or lower plate member to prevent the electrical power cable from becoming unwrapped.

Referring to lower plate member includes cut out areas which allow a user to adjust or grasp electrical power cable when electrical power cable is within space . Portable apparatus can be configured to have any suitable size. In one embodiment portable apparatus is configured so that base member has a diameter of eighteen 18 inches intermediate support member has a diameter of fifteen 15 inches and top member has a diameter of twelve 12 inches. In one embodiment portable apparatus has a height of twenty six 26 inches.

Referring to apparatus includes a plurality of feet members that are attached to bottom side of lower plate member . Feet members are fabricated from any suitable material such as rubber neoprene rubber resin plastic polyvinylchloride etc.

In an alternate embodiment each post member includes at least one data communication port that can be connected to a data communication network. Such a data communication port can be configured as any type of data communication port including but not limited to a USB port Ethernet port Firewall port RS 232 connector an RS 422 connector HDMI port and any registered jack including RJ11 RJ14 RJ21 RJ45 and RJ48.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

