---

title: Automated selection of images for web pages
abstract: In various embodiments, a method, a system, and a computer-readable medium are disclosed for creating a pool of images available for display, such as in one or more web pages. In one embodiment, a method is disclosed that includes selecting images for a markup language document by determining a pre-determined number, N, of images to display in the markup language document, encoding an instruction in the markup language document to be executed by one or more hardware-based processors to select N images for insertion into the markup language document, retrieving the N images from a group of images, and placing the N retrieved images in the markup language document. Other embodiments are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477773&OS=09477773&RS=09477773
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09477773
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150824
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 717 394 filed on Dec. 17 2012 entitled Automated Selection of Images for Web Pages now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 116 868 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 620 450 filed on Nov. 17 2009 entitled Dynamic Selection of Images for Web Pages now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 335 983 which is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 589 585 filed on Jun. 7 2000 entitled Dynamic Selection of Images for Web Pages now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 673 229 all of which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention relates generally to content displayed as pages on the World Wide Web and more particularly to selecting images as part of such content.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings hereto Copyright 1999 eBay Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Images are frequently used on World Wide Web web pages as illustration and to make the pages more attractive. Both purposes are particularly important when the Web site displaying the pages is a business. A user is more likely to explore a web site that shows images of the items for sale. In a Web based business such as an auction site in which the inventory turns over rapidly regenerating one or more web pages to display new images is especially important. However choosing the new images to display is currently a manual process and thus cannot be accomplished as rapidly as may be desirable. Furthermore once the images are selected they must be integrated with the other content on the web page. Therefore it would be advantageous to provide for the dynamic selection of images for web pages and for the automatic integration of the selected images to permit frequent and rapid modifications of the web pages.

The above mentioned shortcomings disadvantages and problems are addressed by the disclosed subject matter which will be understood by reading and studying the following specification.

In various embodiments disclosed herein a gallery widget provides for the automatic selection and integration of images in a markup language document such as a web page. A widget tag may be encoded on the web page that invokes the gallery widget when the page is being processed for display. The gallery widget is a utility program that selects a pre determined number of images from a group of images and places the images on the web page. The number of images and their respective locations on the web page may be specified in the widget tag. The gallery widget can select the images from a gallery that contains all available images or from a pool of images created from the gallery using a gallery administration tool.

Because the gallery widget is automatically invoked when the page is being readied for display there is no manual intervention required so web pages encoded with the widget tag can be regenerated as frequently as necessary to maintain current images on the pages. When it is desirable to choose certain types of images during a time period such as for promotional purposes the gallery administration tool allows a user to create a pool of images having common characteristics in advance.

The disclosed subject matter describes systems methods and computer readable media of varying scope. In addition to the aspects and advantages of the subject matter described in this summary further aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent by reference to the drawings and by reading the detailed description that follows.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical mechanical electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

An overview of a network based transaction facility in which embodiments of the invention may be practiced is first described to provide a context for the invention. Next the operations and methods of the invention are described in conjunction with block diagrams and flowcharts. An exemplary computer hardware and software environment suitable for use with the invention are then described. Finally a conclusion of the detailed description is presented.

The following description of is intended to provide an overview of a network based transaction facility e.g. business to business business to consumer and consumer to consumer Internet marketplaces and retailers but is not intended to limit the applicable computer environments. One of skill in the art will immediately appreciate that the invention can be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. For the purposes of the present specification the term transaction shall be taken to include any communications between two or more entities and shall be construed to include but not be limited to commercial transactions including sale and purchase transactions auctions and the like. While exemplary embodiments of the present invention is described within the context of an Internet auction facility as shown in it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention will find application in many different types of computer based and network based commerce facilities.

The auction facility includes one or more of a number of types of front end servers namely page servers that deliver web pages e.g. markup language documents picture servers that dynamically deliver images to be displayed within web pages listing servers CGI servers that provide an intelligent interface to the back end of facility and search servers that handle search requests to the facility . E mail servers provide automated e mail communications to users of the facility and other services as known in the art.

The back end servers include a database engine server a search index server and a credit card database server each of which maintains and facilitates access to a respective database.

The Internet based auction facility may be accessed by a client program such as a browser e.g. the Internet Explorer distributed by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. that executes on a client machine and accesses the facility via a network such as for example the Internet . Other examples of networks that a client may utilize to access the auction facility include a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network e.g. a cellular network or the Plain Old Telephone Service POTS network.

A system level overview of the operation of two embodiments of the invention are described by reference to . Images available for display on web pages are stored in a data structure also referred to as a Gallery Gallery is a trademark of eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. assignee of the present invention . A web page is encoded with an instruction or widget tag that invokes a utility program referred to as a gallery widget when the web page is being prepared for display.

In the embodiment illustrated in when the gallery widget is invoked it randomly selects a number of images specified in the widget tag from the Gallery and places them on the web page at locations as defined in the widget tag.

When used in conjunction with the auction facility shown the gallery is a set of thumbnail image records stored in a data base such as data base . Each thumbnail image record contains data associated with an auction item represented by the image such as an identifier for the item a category for the item a date and time for the end of the auction for the item and an address for the image itself. The widget tag is encoded on the web page in a proprietary format that identifies the gallery widget specifies the number of images required and defines the display parameters for the images. Additional parameters such as a category identifier for the images can also be included. At periodic intervals the web page is regenerated by compiling the page source code into standard HTML code suitable for display by a browser such as Internet Explorer. When the compiler processes the widget tag it invokes the gallery widget to select the images for the page . Thus for example when a web home page contains a widget tag of the format 

the text Home Page Gallery identifies which gallery widget should be invoked when the home page is compiled M identifies a particular category of images to be displayed on the home page N specifies the number of images and the combination of X Y Z R and C defines the coordinates on the home page for the image locations.

In an alternate embodiment illustrated in a gallery administration tool pre selects a certain number of images from the Gallery to form a gallery pool data structure . The gallery administration tool compares the images in the gallery with various filtering criteria and allocates those images that meet the filtering criteria to the gallery pool . When the web page is being prepared for display the gallery widget selects the required number of images from the gallery pool rather than from the full Gallery . The gallery pool may be used to hold images having common criteria such as an expiration date or category. More than one image pool can be created as shown in phantom in .

When used in conjunction with the auction facility of the gallery administration tool is periodically executed by a user to choose the images for the pool that will be available for display during the next time period based on filtering criteria input by the user. The criteria may be predicated on the occurrence of a special promotion or a particular theme such as a holiday. So for example a marketing employee could choose a large number of appropriate holiday images to fill the pool but would not have to know exactly how many images may be used. The user is also given the option of deleting individual items from the image pool and for purging all images associated with items no longer at auction. Information from the Gallery thumbnail image records that match the filtering criteria are used to create the set of gallery pool records.

The system level overview of the operation of an embodiment of the invention has been described in this section of the detailed description. A gallery widget has been described that automatically selects and places images on a web page when a widget tag encoded on the web page invokes the widget. The gallery widget can select the images from a Gallery data structure containing all available images or from one or more gallery image pool data structures created by a gallery administration tool using pre determined filtering criteria. While the invention is not limited to any particular widget tag for sake of clarity a specific tag format has been described. It will be appreciated that the description of the invention in terms of a web page encompasses all documents written in any markup language.

In the previous section a system level overview of the operations of embodiments of the invention was described. In this section the particular methods of the invention are described in terms of computer software with reference to a series of flowcharts. The methods to be performed by a computer constitute computer programs made up of computer executable instructions. Describing the methods by reference to a flowchart enables one skilled in the art to develop such programs including such instructions to carry out the methods on suitably configured computers the processor of the computer executing the instructions from computer readable media If written in a programming language conforming to a recognized standard such instructions can be executed on a variety of hardware platforms and for interface to a variety of operating systems. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein. Furthermore it is common in the art to speak of software in one form or another e.g. program procedure process application module logic . . . as taking an action or causing a result. Such expressions are merely a shorthand way of saying that execution of the software by a computer causes the processor of the computer to perform an action or a produce a result.

Referring first to the acts to be performed by a computer executing a gallery widget method are shown. When the gallery widget is invoked during the preparation of a web page the method determines the number of images N specified in the gallery widget tag block and calls a random number generator such as one commonly provided by computer operating system requesting N random numbers block . The method retrieves N images using each random number as an index into either the Gallery or the gallery pool data structure block . The determination to use the Gallery or one of the gallery pools may be coded in the widget or may be driven by an additional parameter in the widget tag. The retrieved images are then placed on the page at the locations specified in the gallery widget tag block .

In an alternate embodiment also illustrated in the method can perform an optional validation method on the images retrieved block shown in phantom . An embodiment of such a validation method illustrated in validates each of the images against four criteria. If the image has expired block is not an appropriate category block has been recently used block or is a duplicate of an already selected image block then another image is retrieved from either the Gallery or gallery pool to replace it block . Once all images have been evaluated blocks the validation method returns to the gallery widget method . It will be appreciated that fewer or more than four criteria can be incorporated into a validation method without exceeding the scope of the invention.

Turning now to one embodiment of a gallery administration tool method is described. The administration tool method allows a user to add block or delete block individual image records or purge an entire group of records from the gallery pool. When the user has completed all desired work on the pool block the method exits.

If the user wishes to add an image record to the pool he she inputs filtering criteria block which is used to retrieve a matching record from the Gallery block . The appropriate information from the Gallery record is used to create a corresponding record in the image pool block . As many additional matching records can be added by user as desired block or new filtering criteria can be input block .

The blocks in phantom in illustrates an embodiment of the gallery administration tool that screens the selected image block to prevent for example an image with an offensive title from being displayed. Any image that fails the screening block is discarded block and another image selected block . The screening at block can be automatic based on some pre determined standards or can be performed manually by the user.

When the user wants to delete individual images from the pool an identifier for the image record e.g. the identifier for the item represented by the image is obtained from the user block . The corresponding image is then deleted from the pool block . If there are more images to delete block the user is given the opportunity to input another image record identifier.

The pool may need to be purged of images periodically such as when the items represented by the images are not longer available on the web site. The user inputs purging criteria block and administration tool method identifies and deletes the matching records block .

One of skill in the art will immediately appreciate that while the administration tool has been described as an interactive program the method is equally applicable to being executed as a batch program driven by a set of parameters previously input by a user.

The particular methods performed by computer implementing an embodiment of the gallery widget and gallery administration tool have been described. The method performed for the gallery widget has been shown by reference to flowcharts in including all the acts from 301 until 323. The method performed for the gallery administration tool has been shown by reference to a flowchart in including all the acts from 401 until 431.

The following description of is intended to provide an overview of computer hardware and other operating components suitable for implementing the invention but is not intended to limit the applicable environments. shows a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the exemplary form of a computer system within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one of the methodologies discussed above may be executed. In alternative embodiments the machine may comprise a network router a network switch a network bridge Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance or any machine capable of executing a sequence of instructions that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

The disk drive unit represents non volatile storage such as a magnetic hard disk an optical disk or another form of storage for large amounts of data and includes a machine readable medium on which is stored a set of instructions i.e. software embodying any one or all of the methodologies described above. The software is also shown to reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor such as when it is written often by a direct memory access process into the main memory during execution of the software by the processor . One of skill in the art will immediately recognize that the term machine readable medium includes any type of storage device capable of storing or encoding a sequence of instructions for execution by the processor that causes the machine to perform any one of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium or computer readable shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic disks and carrier wave signals that encode data signals such as when the software is transmitted or received via the network interface device from to external systems.

It will be appreciated that the modem or network interface device can be considered to be part of the computer system . This interface device can be an analog modem ISDN modem cable modem token ring interface satellite transmission interface e.g. Direct PC or other interfaces for coupling a computer system to other computer systems. The computer system and the external systems can be connected in a local area network LAN configuration or in a wide area network WAN configuration generically represented as network . The LAN and WAN can be either public or private networks. One of the most widely used public WANs is the Internet. The term Internet as used herein refers to a network of networks which uses certain protocols such as the TCP IP protocol and possibly other protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP for hypertext markup language HTML documents that make up the World Wide Web. The physical connections of the Internet and the protocols and communication procedures of the Internet are well known to those of skill in the art.

It will be appreciated that the computer system is one example of many possible computer systems which have different architectures. For example personal computers based on an Intel microprocessor often have multiple buses one of which can be considered to be a peripheral bus. Network computers are another type of computer system that can be used with the present invention. Network computers do not usually include a hard disk or other mass storage and the executable programs are loaded from a network connection into the memory for execution by the processor . A Web TV system which is known in the art is also considered to be a computer system according to the present invention but it may lack some of the features shown in such as certain input or output devices. A typical computer system will usually include at least a processor memory and a bus coupling the memory to the processor.

It will also be appreciated that the computer system is controlled by operating system software which includes a file management system such as a disk operating system which is part of the operating system software. One example of an operating system software with its associated file management system software is the operating system known as Windows 95 from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and its associated file management system. The file management system is typically stored in the non volatile storage and causes the processor to execute the various acts required by the operating system to input and output data and to store data in memory including storing files on the non volatile storage .

A gallery widget that provides for the automatic selection and integration of images on markup language documents such as web pages has been described. In one aspect the gallery widget selects the images from a gallery containing all the available images. In another aspect a supporting gallery administration tool creates a pool of images from those in the gallery and the gallery widget selects the images for the web pages from the pool. Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention.

For example one of skill in the art will immediately recognize that the invention is not limited to use with an auction web site as described herein but is suitable for use on with any web based business that requires a frequent rotation of images on its web site pages. Furthermore although the invention has been described in conjunction with its use on the World Wide Web it will be appreciated that the invention is equally applicable in any environment in which images are presented to a user in documents written in a markup language and that the terminology used in this application is meant to include all environments that incorporate a markup language. Therefore it is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

