---

title: Apparatus for providing utility receptacles on a work surface
abstract: An apparatus for providing utility receptacles on a work surface. The apparatus has a housing structure having a pair of sidewalls, a rear wall, a bottom section and a top section that is attached to the sidewalls. The top section includes a central section and at least one bendable tab extending from the central section to a distal end. The central section has at least one opening therein that is sized and shaped to receive a utility receptacle. The central section has a transverse slot along which the bendable tab can be bent with respect to the central section. The bendable tab can be bent 90° with respect to the central section. The bendable tab has at least one transverse slot along which a first portion of the bendable tab can be bent with respect to a second portion of the bendable tab.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09504318&OS=09504318&RS=09504318
owner: Premier Manufacturing Group, Inc.
number: 09504318
owner_city: Shelton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150624
---
The present invention generally relates to an apparatus for providing utility receptacles on a work surface of an article of furniture such as a table desk workbench workstation or similar article.

Devices that provide electrical power and data receptacles on a work surface are known in the art. These devices are typically mounted within a cut out or opening formed in the work surface. Typical prior art devices for providing electrical power and data receptacles on work surfaces of workbenches workstations and similar articles of furniture are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 709 156 7 407 392 7 407 392 7 614 889 and 7 901 224.

In some embodiments the invention is directed to an apparatus for providing utility receptacles on a work surface. The apparatus comprises a housing structure having a pair of sidewalls that are substantially parallel to each other. The housing structure further comprises a top section that is attached to sidewalls. The top section comprises a central section that has an opening for receiving a utility receptacle. The top section further comprises at least one bendable tab extending from the central section to a distal end. The central section has a transverse slot along which the bendable tab can be bent with respect to the central section. The bendable tab has at least one transverse slot along which a first portion of the bendable tab can be bent with respect to a second portion of the bendable tab.

In some embodiments the invention is directed to an apparatus for providing utility receptacles on a work surface. The apparatus comprises a housing structure comprising a pair of sidewalls a front wall a rear wall a bottom section and a top section wherein the sidewalls front wall rear wall bottom section and top section form a compartment within the housing structure. The top section comprises a central section that has a first opening for receiving a utility receptacle. The top section includes a second opening. The top section further comprises at least one bendable tab extending from the central section to a distal end. The central section has a transverse slot along which the bendable tab can be bent with respect to the central section. The bendable tab has at least one transverse slot along which a first portion of the bendable tab can be bent with respect to a second portion of the bendable tab. The apparatus further comprises a device charging port assembly that is positioned within the compartment and comprises a device charging port. The device charging port is aligned with the second opening in the central section. The apparatus further comprises a cover member that is attached to the top section. The cover member has a top side a first opening aligned with the first opening of the central section and a second opening that is aligned with the second opening of the central section. The apparatus further comprises a utility receptacle mounted to the central section and positioned within the first opening of the central section. The utility receptacle has a front portion and a rear portion. The front portion of the utility receptacle is within the first opening of the cover member. The rear portion of the utility receptacle extends through the first opening of the central section and protrudes into the compartment. In one embodiment the utility receptacle is an electrical power receptacle

In some embodiments the present invention is directed to an apparatus for providing utility receptacles on a work surface comprising a housing structure having a pair of sidewalls a rear wall that is transversely attached to the sidewalls and a bottom section. The sidewalls are substantially parallel to each other and substantially perpendicular to the rear wall and the bottom section. The housing structure further comprises a top section that is attached to the sidewalls. The top section further comprises a central section and at least one bendable tab extending from the central section to a distal end. The central section has a transverse bend line along which the bendable tab can be bent with respect to the central section. The transverse bend line of the central section is positioned such that the at least one bendable tab can be bent to a position wherein the bendable tab is adjacent to one of the sidewalls. The at least one bendable tab has at least one transverse bend line along which a first portion of the bendable tab can be bent with respect to a second portion of the bendable tab. The central section has at least one opening therein that is sized and shaped to receive a utility receptacle.

As used herein the term utility receptacle shall include electrical power receptacles that provide either AC or DC voltages data communication ports USB ports device charging ports USB charging ports Power Pole conductors manufactured by Anderson Power Products Inc. of Sterling Mass. RS 232 connectors RS 422 connectors RS 485 connectors and telephone line connectors or jacks such as RJ 11 RJ 12 RJ 14 RJ 15 RJ 21X RJ 25 RJ 31X and RJ 48C.

Referring to there is shown completely assembled apparatus for providing utility receptacles on a work surface in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Apparatus comprises a housing structure that is shown in . Housing structure comprises a pair of sidewalls and and a transverse rear wall that is transversely attached to sidewalls and . Sidewall has a bottom edge A and a top edge B. Sidewall has a bottom edge A and a top edge B. Transverse rear wall has a top edge A and a bottom edge B. Structure includes bottom section . In one embodiment bottom section is attached only to sidewall . In one embodiment bottom section is attached to bottom edge A of sidewall . In another embodiment bottom section is integrally formed with sidewall . In one embodiment bottom section is attached to sidewall and transverse rear wall . In another embodiment the bottom section is attached to sidewalls and and transverse rear wall . In another embodiment bottom section is attached to the bottom edges A and B of sidewall and transverse rear wall respectively. Sidewalls and are substantially parallel to each other and substantially perpendicular to transverse rear wall and bottom section . An electrically conductive post member is attached to transverse wall see . Ground terminal see is connected to post member . Housing structure further comprises top section that is attached to the top edges B and B of sidewalls and respectively. In one embodiment top section is also attached to the top edge A of transverse rear wall . Top section comprises central section . Central section has first end portion A and second end portion B. Central section includes openings A and B. The purpose of openings A and B is described in the ensuing description. Top section further comprises bendable tab which extends from first end portion A of central section . Top section further comprises bendable tab that extends from second end portion B of central section . Bendable tab extends to distal end and bendable tab extends to distal end . Prior to being bent bendable tabs and are coplanar with central portion as shown in .

Central portion includes openings and that are in the form of transverse slots. Bendable tab can be bent about transverse slot so that bendable tab is adjacent to sidewall as shown in . Thus bendable tab can be bent 90 . Similarly bendable tab can be bent about transverse slot so that bendable tab is adjacent to sidewall as shown in . Thus bendable tab can be bent about 90 . Bendable tab has at least one opening that is in the form of a transverse slot. In one embodiment bendable tab has a plurality of transverse slots . In one embodiment transverse slots are equidistantly spaced. The transverse slots allow a first portion A of the bendable tab to be bent with respect to a second portion B of the bendable tab see . Similarly bendable tab has at least one opening that is in the form of a transverse slot. In one embodiment bendable tab has a plurality of transverse slots . In one embodiment transverse slots are equidistantly spaced. The transverse slots allow a first portion of bendable tab to be bent with respect to a second portion of bendable tab . The purpose and function of transverse slots and are described in the ensuing description.

Bendable tab has thru hole in proximity to distal end . Thru hole is sized to receive a fastener such as a screw bolt or nail. Similarly bendable tab has thru hole in proximity to distal end . Thru hole is sized to receive a fastener such as a screw bolt or nail.

Referring to each sidewall and has the same length L. In one embodiment each bendable tab and has a predetermined length L that is relatively greater than length L such that when bendable tab is bent 90 so that it is adjacent to sidewall distal end of bendable tab extends beyond bottom edge A of sidewall and when bendable tab is bent 90 so that it is adjacent to sidewall the distal end of bendable tab extends beyond bottom edge A of sidewall see . Housing structure further comprises front wall that is transversely attached to sidewalls and so as to form compartment .

Referring to central portion of top section has cut out or opening and cut out or opening . Apparatus further comprises utility receptacle . In one embodiment utility receptacle is configured as an electrical power receptacle. Electrical power receptacle comprises rear portion and front portion . Electrical power receptacle is fitted within opening such that rear portion protrudes into compartment . In one embodiment fasteners e.g. screws clips brackets etc. are used to keep electrical power receptacle positioned within opening . Opening of central section is sized to provide access to another utility receptacle . In one embodiment utility receptacle comprises a device charging port which is described in the ensuing description.

Referring to bottom section includes a cut out or opening in which cable strain relief member is tightly positioned. In one embodiment front wall is also attached to bottom section . Apparatus further comprises an electrical power cord that extends through strain relief member . Electrical power cord has a first end that is located within compartment and electrically connected to electrical power receptacle . Electrical power cord has male plug that is configured to be electrically connected to an electrical power source e.g. A.C. power source . Apparatus includes device charging port assembly that is mounted within compartment and is secured to housing structure via screws fasteners or any suitable fastening technique. Device charging port assembly comprises assembly housing and device charging port see . In one embodiment device charging port is a USB charging port. Device charging port assembly is positioned so that device charging port is aligned with opening of central section . Device charging port assembly comprises circuitry that is electrically connected to device charging port . Electrical power cord is electrically connected to the circuitry within device charging port assembly and provides a first voltage at a first current to the circuitry within device charging port assembly . The circuitry in device charging port assembly converts the first voltage at the first current to a relatively lower second voltage at a relatively lower second current that is suitable for charging electronic devices e.g. smart phones iPads iPod PDA etc. This lower second voltage and current are available at device charging port .

Referring to there is shown a wiring diagram of apparatus . Apparatus includes barrier terminal strips or blocks and . Barrier terminal strip includes electrical contacts A C. Contacts A B and C are electrically connected together. Similarly barrier terminal strip includes electrical contacts A C. Contacts A B and C are electrically connected together. The hot wire of power cord is electrically connected to electrical contact A and neutral wire of electrical power cord is electrically connected to electrical contact A. Electrical ground wire of power cord is electrically connected to ground terminal . Ground terminal is connected to post see . Thus ground terminal is electrically connected to transverse rear wall . Wire is electrically connected to electrical contact B and a corresponding electrical contact on device charging port assembly . Wire is electrically connected to electrical contact B and a corresponding electrical contact on device charging port assembly . Wire is electrically connected to electrical contact C and a corresponding electrical contact on rear portion of utility receptacle . Wire is electrically connected to electrical contact C and a corresponding electrical contact on rear portion of utility receptacle . Wire is electrically connected to ground terminal and a corresponding electrical ground contact on rear portion of utility receptacle .

Referring to apparatus further comprises cover member or faceplate that is attached to top section . Cover member has top side and bottom side . In one embodiment cover member is removably attached to top section . Any suitable fastener or fastening technique may be used to attach cover member to top section . In one embodiment cover member has a pair of standoffs not shown that extend outwardly from bottom side . Each of these standoffs is sized to fit into a corresponding opening A and B. Cover member has a first opening therein that is sized to receive front portion of electrical power receptacle . Cover member further includes a second opening that is aligned with opening of central section thereby providing access to device charging port .

Referring to there is shown completely assembled apparatus . Bendable tabs and are bent 90 along transverse slots and respectively so that bendable tabs and are adjacent to sidewalls and respectfully. Since the length of each bendable tab and is relatively greater than the length of sidewalls and distal ends and extend below the bottom edges of sidewalls and respectively. For example referring to distal end of bendable tab extends below bottom edge A of sidewall . shows a portion of bendable tab bent upward to a 45 position along a particular transverse slot indicated by reference number A. Although not shown in the drawing a portion of bendable tab is also bent upward along one of the transverse slots to a 45 position. shows bendable tab bent upward along one of the transverse slots to a 90 position. Although not shown in the drawing bendable tab is also bent upward along one of the transverse slots to a 90 position.

In another embodiment housing structure is configured with only a single bendable tab. For example in such an embodiment housing structure would have either bendable tab or bendable tab but not both. In a further embodiment there are two or more bendable tabs on each side of housing structure .

In another embodiment the apparatus of the present invention is configured with more than one bendable tab on each side of the apparatus. Such an embodiment is shown in . In this embodiment apparatus comprises housing structure that comprises front wall rear wall side wall an opposite side wall not shown and a bottom section . Housing structure also includes a top section not shown that is similar to top section see . The aforesaid top section of housing structure comprises a central section similar to central section and a first pair of bendable tabs and that extend from this central section of housing structure . The top section of housing structure further includes a second pair of bendable tabs not shown that extend from the corresponding central section and are located on the other side of housing structure . The top section of housing structure includes a pair of openings in the form of transverse slots similar to transverse slot which allow bendable tabs and to be bent downward 90 with respect to the central section so that the bendable tabs and are adjacent to sidewall . The top section of housing structure also includes another pair of openings i.e. transverse slots on the opposite side to allow the bendable tabs not shown on the opposite side of housing structure to be bent downward 90 with respect to the central section of housing structure . Bendable tab has at least one opening that is in the form of a transverse slot. In a preferred embodiment bendable tab has a plurality of transverse slots . Transverse slots perform the same function as transverse slots . Bendable tab has at least one opening that is in the form of a transverse slot. In a preferred embodiment bendable has a plurality of transverse slots . Transverse slots perform the same function as transverse slots . Bendable tab has distal end . Bendable tab has distal end . Bendable tab has thru hole . Similarly bendable tab has thru hole . Thru holes and have the same purpose and function as thru holes and see . Similarly the bendable tabs on the other side not shown of housing structure have the same structure and configuration as bendable tabs and . shows bendable tabs and bent downward 90 and adjacent to the sidewall of housing structure . The bendable tabs not shown on the other side of housing structure are also bent downward 90 . Referring to a first portion of bendable tab is bent along a transverse slot to a 90 position with respect to a second portion of bendable tab . Similarly a first portion of bendable tab is bent along a transverse slot to a 90 position with respect to a second portion of bendable tab . Apparatus further comprises cover member which has the same function as cover member . Apparatus further includes an electrical power receptacle not shown and a device charging port not shown which provide the same functions as electrical power receptacle and device charging port respectively.

Various suitable materials can be used to fabricate the components of the apparatus of the present invention. For example the cover members and can be fabricated from metal plastic or PVC. Suitable metals are steel stainless steel chrome or aluminum. Housing structures and can be fabricated from metal such as steel stainless steel aluminum iron copper or brass.

In another embodiment housing structure is configured to use bend lines instead of transverse slots and . In such an embodiment the bend lines are used in place of slots and . In one embodiment the aforementioned bend lines are formed in accordance with the technique described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 484 980 entitled Field Bendable Tab For Electrical Box Support. The disclosure of U.S. Pat. No. 6 484 980 is hereby incorporated by reference. In accordance with the technique described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 484 980 bend lines are defined by two or more discontinuous score lines formed in each bend line and which weaken the metal along the bend line to facilitate bending but permit straightening and rebending of the bendable tab when necessitated by field conditions and without the risk of substantially weakening or breaking the metal that forms the bendable tab.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

