---

title: Managing technology resources across multiple platforms
abstract: The present invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for managing technology resources across multiple platforms. Embodiments of the invention can be used to manage the configuration of a plurality of different devices. A management server/service can utilize native management capabilities of different devices to provide configuration management without requiring agents to be installed on the devices. In general, the management server/service adapts to the unique characteristics and behaviors of different devices, platforms, and external systems to provide configuration management for the different devices, platforms, and external systems. As such, configuration management can be provided in a unified fashion across different platforms, both on-premise and off-premise, and indirectly. When client agents are present, the management server/service can adjust to compatibly operate with the client agents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509564&OS=09509564&RS=09509564
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09509564
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150925
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 721 042 entitled Managing Technology Resources Across Multiple Platforms filed Dec. 20 2012 by Steven P. Burns et al. the entire contents of which are expressly incorporated by reference.

Computer systems and related technology affect many aspects of society. Indeed the computer system s ability to process information has transformed the way we live and work. Computer systems now commonly perform a host of tasks e.g. word processing scheduling accounting etc. that prior to the advent of the computer system were performed manually. More recently computer systems have been coupled to one another and to other electronic devices to form both wired and wireless computer networks over which the computer systems and other electronic devices can transfer electronic data. Accordingly the performance of many computing tasks is distributed across a number of different computer systems and or a number of different computing environments.

In enterprise network environments an information technology IT management group typically manages the configuration of computing devices for an entity e.g. a corporation . Larger networks can include 100 s or even 1000 s computing devices including personal computers phones tablets etc. Different computing devices can have different and unique technologies and implementation details such as different hardware and software. As a result the required configuration management for the different computing devices can also vary.

Some computing devices may be more easily managed than other computing devices. For example a widely adopted design for personal computer configuration management system is a client server design. That is a server or service is contacted by an accompanying client which is typically a software process an agent running on the computer being managed. The client periodically contacts the server to receive configuration directives and to submit data regarding the management of the computer running the agent. The server and the client to be developed in tandem to increase interoperability.

On the other hand when managing a mobile device e.g. a slate tablet phone or similar the client server design often does not work. For example on many mobile devices the device operating platform does not allow for an agent to be installed on the device. Alternatively a device manufacturer distributor supplier carrier or licensing entity may not allow under the terms of the use of the device the installation of an agent on the device even if the operating platform does allow installation of an agent . For either of these configurations it is typical for a device platform to already include some form of remote device management. That is the device may already have some sort of management agent supplied by the device manufacturer. Additionally the development of an agent for the device platform may be redundant with functionality already present on the device. Thus even if the device lends itself to the installation of a management agent it may not be attractive to develop one since doing so would provide little value over functionality already present.

Further some configuration management directives are not realized on a device at all. Rather such directives are to manage the configuration of other software systems on behalf of a user or device that utilizes those systems. For example an IT admin may desire to manage a user s email in box. However the in box is an artifact of the email system separate from an IT configuration management system. That is devices access the email system to retrieve the email for a given user. These devices in the context of email retrieval respond to the configuration of the email system. Nonetheless the IT admin would like to specify management directives for the device s behavior that is governed by the email system. However the email system is merely an intermediary for the indirect management of services.

Moreover it is often the case that enterprises have existing and several systems in place that are installed on premises meaning that the enterprise owns and operates the equipment on which those systems run. Likewise it is increasingly the case that enterprises utilize services provided over communications networks such as the Internet. These Internet services are owned and operated by a third party. However it can be difficult to manage these external systems using a client server design.

It can also be difficult to manage a computing device when the client or server component in a client server design changes. For example it may be that a managed device has a native device client agent designed to work with a given IT management system. If the IT management system changes e.g. due to an upgrade the device client agent may become incompatible and require changes. In some environments it may not even be possible to change the device client agent. For example the device client agent may be embedded in hardware e.g. an embedded system and cannot be revised.

The present invention extends to methods systems and computer program products for managing technology resources across multiple platforms. In some embodiments a directive dispatcher issues an abstract device neutral directive to a specified and possible one of many different device s . The abstract device neutral directive directs the specified target device to implement a configuration change. A platform specific gateway possibly one of a plurality of different platform specific gateways for the specified target device receives the abstract device neutral directive from a distribution component. The platform specific gateway translates the abstract device neutral directive into a form suitable for execution at the specified target device to implement the configuration change. The platform specific gateway sends the form suitable for execution at the specified target device to the specified target device so as to realize the configuration change at the specified target device.

In other embodiments a platform specific gateway collects operational data from a specified target device. The operational data is in a device specific data format and relates to a previously issued directive from a directive dispatcher. The platform specific gateway translates the operational data from the device specific data format into the device neutral data format in accordance with a device neutral data schema. The platform specific gateway submits the operational data in the device neutral data format to a data collection service for storage in a data persistence store. The operational data is available for subsequent use by business logic when processing issued directives from the directive dispatcher.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

The present invention extends to methods systems and computer program products for managing technology resources across multiple platforms. In some embodiments a directive dispatcher issues an abstract device neutral directive to a specified and possible one of many different device s . The abstract device neutral directive directs the specified target device to implement a configuration change. A platform specific gateway possibly one of a plurality of different platform specific gateways for the specified target device receives the abstract device neutral directive from a distribution component. The platform specific gateway translates the abstract device neutral directive into a form suitable for execution at the specified target device to implement the configuration change. The platform specific gateway sends the form suitable for execution at the specified target device to the specified target device so as to realize the configuration change at the specified target device.

In other embodiments a platform specific gateway collects operational data from a specified target device. The operational data is in a device specific data format and relates to a previously issued directive from a directive dispatcher. The platform specific gateway translates the operational data from the device specific data format into the device neutral data format in accordance with a device neutral data schema. The platform specific gateway submits the operational data in the device neutral data format to a data collection service for storage in a data persistence store. The operational data is available for subsequent use by business logic when processing issued directives from the directive dispatcher.

Embodiments of the present invention may comprise or utilize a special purpose or general purpose computer including computer hardware such as for example one or more processors and system memory as discussed in greater detail below. Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include physical and other computer readable media for carrying or storing computer executable instructions and or data structures. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system. Computer readable media that store computer executable instructions are computer storage media devices . Computer readable media that carry computer executable instructions are transmission media. Thus by way of example and not limitation embodiments of the invention can comprise at least two distinctly different kinds of computer readable media computer storage media devices and transmission media.

Computer storage media devices includes RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM solid state drives SSDs e.g. based on RAM Flash memory phase change memory PCM other types of memory other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer.

A network is defined as one or more data links that enable the transport of electronic data between computer systems and or modules and or other electronic devices. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a transmission medium. Transmissions media can include a network and or data links which can be used to carry desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Further upon reaching various computer system components program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures can be transferred automatically from transmission media to computer storage media devices or vice versa . For example computer executable instructions or data structures received over a network or data link can be buffered in RAM within a network interface module e.g. a NIC and then eventually transferred to computer system RAM and or to less volatile computer storage media devices at a computer system. Thus it should be understood that computer storage media devices can be included in computer system components that also or even primarily utilize transmission media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which when executed at a processor cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language or even source code. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the described features or acts described above. Rather the described features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers desktop computers laptop computers message processors hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers mobile telephones PDAs tablets pagers routers switches and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed system environments where local and remote computer systems which are linked either by hardwired data links wireless data links or by a combination of hardwired and wireless data links through a network both perform tasks. In a distributed system environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Embodiments of the invention can also be implemented in cloud computing environments. In this description and the following claims cloud computing is defined as a model for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources. For example cloud computing can be employed in the marketplace to offer ubiquitous and convenient on demand access to the shared pool of configurable computing resources. The shared pool of configurable computing resources can be rapidly provisioned via virtualization and released with low management effort or service provider interaction and then scaled accordingly.

A cloud computing model can be composed of various characteristics such as for example on demand self service broad network access resource pooling rapid elasticity measured service and so forth. A cloud computing model can also expose various service models such as for example Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service PaaS and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS . A cloud computing model can also be deployed using different deployment models such as private cloud community cloud public cloud hybrid cloud and so forth. In this description and in the claims a cloud computing environment is an environment in which cloud computing is employed.

Embodiments of the invention can be used to manage the configuration of a plurality of different devices. A management server service can utilize native management capabilities of different devices to provide configuration management without requiring agents to be installed on the devices. In general the management server service adapts to the unique characteristics and behaviors of different devices platforms and external systems to provide configuration management for the different devices platforms and external systems. As such configuration management can be provided in a unified fashion across different platforms both on premise and off premise and indirectly. When client agents are present the management server service can adjust to compatibly operate with the client agents.

A data model design models managed devices in a device neutral manner. Service server side logic processes management directives in a device neutral format. Gateway adaptors reconcile platform specifics to management service generalisms. For example gateway adaptors can translate device neutral directives into device specific directives. Gateway adaptors can also translate collected operational data from device specific format into a device neutral format for use by the service server side logic. Gateway adaptors can also adapt to various protocols used to communicate with devices. As such gateway adaptors can facilitate communication between endpoints that use different communication protocols.

In general directive dispatcher is configured to issue device neutral directives targeted to one or more specified target devices. The device neutral directives can direct one or more specified target devices to implement a configuration change. When appropriate directive processing modules can process issued device neutral directives to modify the device neutral directives. Directive processing modules can apply business logic to make changes for specified target device or to comply with policy settings. In some embodiments directive processing modules includes a plurality of modules that interact with one another to provide various features offered to a user e.g. an IT admin .

Distribution component is configured to distribute a device neutral directive to one or more specified targeted devices. Distribution component can receive a device neutral directive. From the devices distribution component is aware of distribution component can determine which devices are specified targeted devices of the device neutral directive. Distribution component can forward to the device neutral directive on to the specified targeted gateways.

Platform specific gateway is configured to interface between more abstract device neutral directives issued by directive dispatcher and more concrete device specific directives for target device and other similar devices . More specifically translation module can translate a device neutral directive into a form suitable for execution at target device and other similar devices . In some embodiments platform specific gateway is one of a plurality of different platform specific gateways. Each of the plurality of different platform specific gateways can be configured to interface between more abstract device neutral directives issued by directive dispatcher and more concrete device specific directives for corresponding target devices. Each of the plurality of different platform specific gateways can be configured for use with differently configured devices including any of the previously described devices. For example platform specific gateway can be configured for use with mobile phones another platform specific gateway can be configured for use with personal computers another platform specific gateway can be configured for use with network equipment etc.

Target device can be one of a variety of different devices such as for example a personal computer a mobile phone a tablet network equipment etc. or other previously described devices.

Remaining briefly at directive dispatcher can dispatch device neutral directive to target device as well as one or more other devices . Device neutral directive can direct target device as well as the one or more other devices to implement a configuration change. When appropriate directive processing modules can apply business logic to device neutral directive . Device neutral directive is then passed on to distribution component for distribution. Distribution component can determine that device neutral component has been issued to target device . In response distribution component can forward device neutral directive to platform specific gateway .

In general directives can include setting device configuration collecting device hardware and software inventory distribution of updates patches and applications to a device issuing wipe rest commands etc. Device neutral directive can include any of these as well as other directives.

Method includes an act of a platform specific gateway receiving an abstract device neutral directive from a distribution component the abstract device neutral directive issued by a directive dispatcher the abstract device neutral directive directing a specified target device to implement a configuration change . For example platform specific gateway can receive device neutral directive from distribution component . As described device neutral directive was dispatched from directive dispatcher and directs target device to implement a configuration change.

Method includes the platform specific gateway translating the abstract device neutral directive into a form suitable for execution at the specified target device to implement the configuration change . For example translation module can translate device neutral directive into device specific directive . Device specific directive can be a form suitable for execution at target device to implement the directed configuration change.

Method includes the platform specific gateway sending the form suitable for execution at the specified target device to the specified target device so as to realize the configuration change at the specified target device . For example platform specific gateway can send device specific directive to target device .

Directive dispatcher can be configured similar to directive dispatcher . Directive dispatcher can issue device neutral directives targeted to one or more specified target devices. The device neutral directives can direct one or more specified target devices to implement a configuration change. When appropriate directive processing modules can process issued device neutral directives to modify the device neutral directives. Directive processing modules can apply business logic in combination with operational data stored in data persistence sore to make changes for specified target device or to comply with policy settings. In some embodiments directive processing modules includes a plurality of modules that can access data from data persistence store and interact with one another to provide various features offered to a user e.g. an IT admin .

Distribution component is configured similar to distribution component . Distribution component can distribute a device neutral directive to one or more specified targeted devices. Distribution component can receive a device neutral directive. From the devices distribution component is aware of distribution component can determine which devices are specified targeted devices of the device neutral directive. Distribution component can forward to the device neutral directive on to the specified targeted devices.

Platform specific gateway is configured to interface between more abstract device neutral directives issued by directive dispatcher and more concrete device specific directives for target device and other similar devices . More specifically translation module can translate a device neutral directive into a form suitable for execution at target device and other similar devices . In some embodiments platform specific gateway is one of a plurality of different platform specific gateways.

Each of the plurality of different platform specific gateways can be configured to interface between more abstract device neutral directives issued by directive dispatcher and more concrete device specific directives for corresponding target devices. Each of the plurality of different platform specific gateways can also be configured to translate device specific operational data into device neutral operational data. Each of the plurality of different platform specific gateways can be configured for use with differently configured devices including any of the previously described devices. For example platform specific gateway can be configured for use with mobile phones another platform specific gateway can be configured for use with personal computers another platform specific gateway can be configured for use with network equipment etc.

Platform specific gateway is further configured to collect operational data from target device and other similar devices . Collected operational data can be in a device specific data format and can be related to a previously issued directive from directive dispatcher .

Platform specific gateway can interface between the device specific data format and a device neutral data format. More specifically translation module can translate operational data in the device specific data format into operational data in the device neutral format. The device neutral format can be defined in schema . Thus platform specific gateway as well as any other platform specific gateways can translate operational data in a device specific data format into operational data in the device neutral format in accordance with schema .

Data collector is configured to collect operational data in the device neutral format from platform specific gateway as well as any other platform specific gateways . Data collector can store operational data in the device neutral format in data persistence store . Operational data stored in data persistence store can be accessed by directive processing modules . Directive processing modules can apply business logic based on stored operational data to access previously issued directives. Thus output from prior directives can be used as feedback when processing new directives.

Target device can be one of a variety of different devices such as for example a personal computer a mobile phone a tablet network equipment etc. or other previously described devices.

Remaining briefly at directive dispatcher can dispatch device neutral directive to target device as well as one or more other devices . Device neutral directive can direct target device as well as the one or more other devices to implement a configuration change. When appropriate directive processing modules can apply business logic to device neutral directive . Device neutral directive is then passed on to distribution component for distribution. Distribution component can determine that device neutral component has been issued to target device . In response distribution component can forward device neutral directive to platform specific gateway .

Platform specific gateway can receive device neutral directive from distribution component . Translation module can translate device neutral directive into device specific directive . Device specific directive can be a form suitable for execution at target device to implement the directed configuration change. Platform specific gateway can send device specific directive to target device .

Target device can execute device specific directive to implement the directed configuration change. As part of execution target device can emit device specific operational data related to the directed configuration change.

In general operational data can include success failure details information relevant to the application of management directives supplied from a gateway. Thus device specific operational data can include success failure details information relevant to the application of device specific directive .

Method includes a platform specific gateway collecting operational data from a specified target device the operational data in the device specific data format the operational data related to a previously issued directive from a directive dispatcher . For example platform specific gateway can collect device specific operational data . Device specific operational data can be in a format specific to target device and other similar devices . Device specific operational data can be related to device neutral directive .

Method includes the platform specific gateway translating the operational data from the device specific data format into the device neutral data format the device neutral data format defined in a device neutral data schema . For example translation module can translate device specific operational data into device neutral operational data . Device neutral operational data can be defined in a device neutral format defined in schema .

Method includes the platform specific gateway submitting the operational data in the device neutral data format to a data collection service for storage in a data persistence store the operational data for subsequent use by business logic when processing issued directives from the directive dispatcher . For example platform specific gateway can submit device neutral operational data to data collector for storage in data persistence store .

Data collector can receive device neutral operational data from platform specific gateway . Data collector can store device neutral operational data in data persistence store . Device neutral operational data can then be accessed by directive processing modules when processing directives from directive dispatcher .

Referring to an admin user of computer architecture can utilize administrator console software program . Software program can be a Web browser application software installed on a computer system or an application app installed on a tablet or smart phone. The admin user can supply directives to via admin console . Directives can be commands scripts software packages configuration manifests configuration policies software licensing keys workflows user and hardware catalogs and other such inputs that the admin desires to implement over a population of devices and external systems.

Application Programming Interface API can accept the directives from admin console . API can be a standards compliant Internet protocol following Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or Representational State Transfer REST patterns. Alternatively API can be a body of industry standard or proprietary Remote Procedure Call RPC technologies.

API can use directive dispatcher to dispatch device neutral directives to one or more directive processors . Directive processors can be included for any number of features. As depicted directive processors include policy computation A remote tasks B software distribution C and others D. Core services include identification of users and devices the organization of users and devices into groups for administrative convenience and the binding of directives to groups of users and or devices. Any of directive processors can utilize the functionality of core services .

When new features are desired new processors can be added to implement the desired features. For example to add a device backup feature a directive processor used to back up devices can be added.

Data persistence store can store data for use by directive processors . Data collector can collect data from and about entities that are being managed. Data collector can store the data in data persistence store . Data persistence store can take the form of a single database server a cluster of database servers or a scale cloud storage device. In some embodiments a directive processor can also implement its own data persistence.

Directive processors can apply business logic to device neutral directives received from directive dispatcher in combination with data from data persistence store and other external data. For example directive processors can tabulate the results of prior directives used analyze directives for correctness and consistency with existing standing directives speculatively predict the impact of implementing a directive i.e. impact analysis determine historical trends and other data mining operations package data payloads for subsequent distribution and so on. Processing device neutral directives can result in additional data being fed back into the system e.g. analysis results saved at data persistence store or feedback e.g. reports generated for user inspection being provide to the users e.g. an IT admin . Processing device neutral directives can also result in data related to the implementation of directives being distributed to managed external devices and systems e.g. any of on premises external system off premises external system 3party device agent native device agent or legacy device client agent .

For example an IT admin may issue a directive to install a software package on all computers in the Sales department. Software distribution processor C can analyze this device neutral directive to determine the suitability and compatibility of known computers in the Sales group analyze the usage of available licenses against needed licenses and so forth. A separate external actor e.g. an agent running on each of the target devices can then perform the installation steps on each of the appropriate devices.

As such since directive processors process device neutral directives directive processors are able to accomplish their processing without having to understand the specific details of the various devices and or external systems that are targets of management. Gateway adaptors e.g. and provide translation of device neutral directives into a form suitable for execution in specified target devices. Each gateway adaptor can be responsible for translating the abstract device neutral or external system neutral directives into concrete device specific or external system specific forms suitable for execution on specific targeted devices or external systems .

Distribution routing component can route device neutral directives to the appropriate gateway. Distribution routing component can use information recorded about each device external system in the data persistence store to facilitate routing device neutral directives.

Various different types of gateway adaptors can be used. The architecture is also generalized such that new gateway adaptors can easily be added.

Device platform specific gateway can used to adapt device neutral directives to those of a specific device platform. Device platform specific gateway is responsible for implementing the server service portion of the management protocol used by native device agent for the target device platform. That is device platform specific gateway can translate a device neutral directive into the server service portion of the management protocol used by native device agent .

For example a device platform may be a mobile phone or table operating system. The platform manufacturer can configure the device platform as a closed system. The platform manufacturer can also include its own management agent which it does not allow other parties to modify. The platform manufacturer can also develop an accompanying management protocol to interact with the management agent. In these embodiments device platform specific gateway adapts a device neutral directive to the accompanying management protocol. As such an IT admin can enter a generic directive at admin console to control a device that uses an otherwise closed and or propriety management protocol.

For some device platforms and device client agent protocols device platform notification service can be used. For such platforms and protocols device platform specific gateway can utilize that notification service. Continuing with the prior example the platform manufacturer can provide device platform notification service .

The interaction between the device platform specific gateway device platform notification service and native device agent is bi directional. That is information can be collected and distributed between these components.

These and other patterns can be essentially repeated for other managed devices. The patter can also be used for device platforms from the same vender. That is a management system may include its own device client agent. In that event the translation performed by a gateway adaptor can be significantly reduced.

Gateway adaptors can also be used for managing prior or legacy editions of device clients. For example legacy client server gateway can be used to adapt a device neutral directive to the accompanying management protocol used by legacy device client agent . Legacy client server gateway can also adapt the directives expressed in one version of an IT management system to those of a previous version of the same system. Adaption to previous versions can be useful when a legacy agent is designed to work with a prior version of a now revised system. Adaption to previous versions can be a way to include continuity of management of devices not yet upgraded or not able to be upgraded to the client agent corresponding to the revised system.

Legacy client server gateway can also provide interoperability with a device client agent of a different perhaps competing management system product. In this scenario the Legacy client server gateway can emulate the server portion of the competing management system from the perspective of the device client agent.

The interaction between legacy client server gateway and legacy device client agent is bi directional. That is information can be collected and distributed between these components.

External on premises system specific gateway and on premises adaptor can be used to adapt device neutral directives for use with an external software system that is installed on the premises of an enterprise such as for example on premise external system . For example it may be that an IT admin wishes to manage the email mailboxes of the users in the enterprise. However the email mailboxes are part of an email system not part of an IT management system. The email system can include one or more servers present on the premises of the owning and or operating enterprise.

Either the IT management system or the email system can supply on premises adaptor to be run on premises with the email system. On premise adaptor accepts data and commands from the external on premises system specific gateway and enacts those commands on on premises external system . Alternately on premises external system may itself provide facilities that external on premises system specific gateway can utilize directly. In this embodiment on premises adaptor may not be included. The interaction between the components external on premises system specific gateway on premises adaptor and on premises external system is bi directional. That is information can be collected and distributed between these components.

The pattern is applicable to any number of other external systems including document management customer relationship management CRM complimentary IT management systems etc.

External off premises system specific gateway can be used to adapt device neutral directives for use with an external software system that is installed off the premises of an enterprise such as for example off premise external system . External off premises system specific gateway can use service interfaces exposed by off premises external system to implement directives and collect information. Off premises external system can include services such as Office Google Apps Salesforce Dynamics Online etc.

The interaction between External off premises system specific gateway and off premises external system is bi directional. That is information can be collected and distributed between these components.

Device platform specific gateway and 3party intermediary can be used to adapt device neutral directives to bridge use between an IT management system and systems devices operated by a third party such as 3party device agent . Here device platform specific gateway communicates with 3party intermediary that utilizes 3party device agent also supplied by the external system. That is 3intermediary handles communication with 3party device agent . Device platform specific gateway directs the external system utilizing interfaces provided by the external system.

The interaction between the Device platform specific gateway party intermediary and 3party device agent is bi directional. That is information can be collected and distributed between these components.

Gateway adaptors can also collect data from managed devices and external systems. The gateway adaptors can translate collected data into a device neutral format. The gateway adaptors can submit collected data in the device neutral format to data collector . Data collector can define device and external system neutral data schema. Gateway adaptors can use the schema to formulate collected data into the device neutral format.

Data collector can receive collected data in the device neutral format from gateway adaptors. Data collector can apply further processing when appropriate. Data collector can then store collected data in data persistence store . Directive processors can refer to the collected data when processing subsequent directives from directive dispatcher .

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

