---

title: Nuclear thermal propulsion rocket engine
abstract: A nuclear thermal propulsion rocket engine. A reactor is provided to receive a fissionable fuel and a propellant fluid. Fuel may be transported and injected using a carrier fluid. Carrier fluid for fuel may be hydrogen or an isotope thereof. Fuel may be plutonium or selected actinide. A neutron generator is provided, and utilizes an ion generator and a target container which extends into the reactor to hold a target material therein. Neutrons may be emitted almost omni-directionally by impact of ions from the ion generator on target material. Cooling of the target container may be provided by a cooling sleeve that receives and circulates a cooling fluid, and discharges the cooling fluid after it has been heated. Fuel injectors provide fuel through fuel injector valves regulated to cycle on and off to pulse output power of the rocket engine, by timing frequency and duration of fuel feed, and regulating injected fuel amounts, to regulate the energy released over discrete time periods. The reactor receives reactants and an expandable propellant fluid such as hydrogen, and confines heated and pressurized gases for discharge out through a throat, and into a rocket engine expansion nozzle for propulsive discharge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09346565&OS=09346565&RS=09346565
owner: 
number: 09346565
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150911
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This application is a Continuation In Part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 692 349 filed on Apr. 21 2015 entitled NUCLEAR THERMAL PROPULSION ROCKET ENGINE the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety including its specification drawing and claims by this reference.

This disclosure relates to rocket engines and more specifically to rocket engines which utilize nuclear fission as the source for thermal energy in the creation of motive force to create specific impulse sufficient for lifting objects to earth orbit or for insertion into interplanetary flight.

A continuing interest exists for improvements in rocket engines and more particularly for designs that would provide a significant increase in propulsive power as often characterized by the benchmark of specific impulse especially as might be compared to conventional chemically fueled rocket engines. Such new rocket engines might be useful in a variety of applications. Launch operational costs might be substantially reduced on a per pound of payload basis by adoption of a new nuclear thermal propulsion rocket engine design that provides significant improvements in the specific impulse as compared to existing prior art rocket engine designs. Further from the point of view of overall mission costs since the mass of most components of rocket vehicles are proportional to the mass of the propellant it would be desirable to develop a new rocket engine design that reduces the mass of consumable components necessary for initiating lift off and acceleration to orbital velocity. Such an improvement would have a major impact on the entire field of rocket science from a launch weight to payload ratio basis. Such an efficiency improvement would also facilitate the inclusion of wings and recovery systems that would enable an economic fully reusable launch system with airliner type operations for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 802 639 issued Feb. 7 1989 to Richard Hardy et al. entitled HORIZONTAL TAKEOFF TRANSATMOSPHERIC LAUNCH SYSTEM the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference. And for missions beyond earth orbit it would be advantageous from the point of view of mission duration to provide a new rocket engine design that reduces not only the payload to launch weight but also the transit time to the mission objective by providing high specific impulse so as to minimize fuel required to achieve high vehicle velocities necessary to accomplish a selected interplanetary mission in a specific time frame. And it would be desirable to provide such an improved rocket engine that includes components which have been reused and identified as comparatively reliable and cost effective and thus minimizes design risk and thus minimizes the extent of testing that may be necessary as compared to many alternate designs which are subject to stress and strain from temperature and pressure in rocket engine services. Thus it can be appreciated that it would be advantageous to provide a new high efficiency rocket engine design which provides a high specific impulse thus minimizing the launch weight to payload ratio.

In general the efficiency of a rocket engine may be evaluated by the effective use of the consumable propellant i.e. the amount of impulse produced per mass of propellant which is itself proportional to the velocity of the gases leaving the rocket engine nozzle. In nuclear thermal rocket engine systems the specific impulse increases as the square root of the temperature and inversely as the square root of the molecular mass of the gases leaving the rocket engine nozzle. Consequently in the design of a nuclear thermal rocket engine efficiency is maximized by using the highest temperature available given materials design constraints and by utilizing a fluid that has a very low molecular mass for generation of thrust.

A variety of fission based rocket engines have been contemplated and some have been tested. An overview of the current status of such efforts and suggestions as to suitable configurations for various missions was published on Oct. 16 2014 at the Angelo State University Physics Colloquium in San Angelo N. Mex. by Michael G. Houts Ph.D of the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center Huntsville Ala. in his presentation entitled Space Nuclear Power and Propulsion available at website ntrs.nasa.gov search.jsp R 20140016814. As he notes the Rover NERVA program 1955 1973 tested a fission rocket engine design. Further the most powerful nuclear rocket engine that has been tested to date was the Phoebus 2a which utilized a reactor that was operated at a power level of more than 4.0 million kilowatts during 12 minutes of a 32 minute test firing. However it is clear that the various nuclear fission rocket engine designs currently available have various drawbacks such as excessive gamma radiation production of retained core components which requires extensive and heavy shielding if used on manned missions.

One of the more interesting disclosures of a fission based rocket engine was provided in U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 714 B2 issued on Apr. 5 2005 to Carlo Rubbia entitled DEVICE FOR HEATING GAS FROM A THIN LAYER OF NUCLEAR FUEL AND SPACE ENGINE INCORPORATING SUCH DEVICE the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference. That patent discloses the heating of hydrogen gas by fission fragments emitted from a thin film of fissile material such as Americium metal or a compound thereof which is deposited on an inner wall of a cooled chamber. However that device generally describes the use of fissile material in critical mass conditions and although it mentions the contemplation of sub critical mass fission arrangements details of such a condition are scant if indeed present at all in the description thereof.

Thus there remains a need to provide a design for a high specific impulse nuclear thermal propulsion rocket engine that simultaneously resolves two or more of the various practical problems including a minimizing the weight of consumables such as chemical fuel constituents on a per payload pound basis b avoiding excessive radiation shielding requirements when the design is used in manned missions by avoiding use of retained radioactive hardware that generates large gamma ray emissions c providing for power control especially as related to power generation amounts at any given time by providing for throttling of the fission reaction and d providing a high specific impulse as compared to prior art rocket engines for space vehicles.

A novel fission based nuclear thermal propulsion rocket engine has been developed which in various embodiments significantly enhances the specific impulse provided by the propulsion system. The rocket engine design provides source of fissionable material such as plutonium in a carrier gas such as deuterium. A neutron source is provided from a neutron beam generator. By way of engine design geometry various embodiments may provide for intersection of a neutron beam from the neutron generator with the fissionable material injected by way of a carrier fluid into a reactor provided in the form of a reaction chamber. Impact of the neutron beam on the fissionable material results in a nuclear fission neutron generating reaction conditions in a reactor resulting in release of heat energy to a propellant fluid such as hydrogen which is supplied to the reactor for heat expansion and discharge therefrom. The reactor is sized and shaped to receive the reactants and to receive an expandable fluid such as hydrogen and to confine heated and pressurized gases for discharge out through a throat into a rocket engine expansion nozzle for propulsive discharge therefrom. In an embodiment a nuclear reaction may be provided in an intermittent pulsed fashion by intermittent engagement between a fissionable material and neutrons from a neutron beam generator. By control of frequency of the pulses of energy creation from the nuclear reaction and by control of the amount of energy released per pulse a workable reaction containment structure can be designed and maintained to withstand the high energy pulsed nuclear reactions as well as to maintain a sufficiently cooled containment structure to enable the rocket engine to work during sustained power operations as necessary for provide an energetic boost to a selected payload package.

An advantage of the novel nuclear thermal propulsion rocket engine design disclosed herein is that use of such a design in a second or later stage of a launch system would result in all radioactive fission products being exhausted into the vacuum of space.

Moreover recent developments in neutron beam generators has made possible the development of a nuclear thermal rocket engine in which the process of production of neutrons can be partially separated from the process of absorption of neutrons by fissionable material so that the fission process can be initiated and maintained while utilizing less than a critical mass of fissionable material. In this manner a design has been developed in which radioactive fission products ejected out of the rocket nozzle into space with other exhaust gases while amounts of fissionable material consumed are replenished with new fissionable material only as necessary to support continued fission to obtain the necessary heat release for operation.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from a final configuration for an embodiment of a nuclear thermal rocket engine using nuclear reactions for power generation or that may be implemented in various embodiments described herein for a rocket engine. Other variations in nuclear thermal rocket engine designs may use slightly different mechanical structures mechanical arrangements solid flow configurations liquid flow configurations or vapor flow configurations and yet employ the principles described herein and as generally depicted in the drawing figures provided. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of exemplary nuclear thermal rocket engine designs under sub critical mass fission conditions. Such details may be quite useful for providing propulsion for a high specific impulse space vehicle and thus reduce cost of payloads lifted to earth orbit lunar or interplanetary missions.

It should be understood that various features may be utilized in accord with the teachings hereof as may be useful in different embodiments as useful for various sizes and shapes and thrust requirements depending upon the mission requirements within the scope and coverage of the teachings herein as defined by the claims. Further like features in various nuclear thermal rocket engine designs may be described using like reference numerals or other like references without further mention thereof.

Attention is directed to of the drawing. shows in a partial cross sectional view an embodiment for a nuclear thermal rocket engine showing a reactor having a tubular portion and a restrictive throat forming an outlet which leads to an expansion nozzle . A neutron beam generator is provided to direct a beam of neutrons in the reactor . A first fluid storage compartment for storage of a first fluid such as deuterium may be depicted as Dor as H is provided. A second fluid storage compartment is provided for storage of a second fluid such as hydrogen H. A third fluid storage compartment is provided for storage of third fluid such as oxygen O . In an embodiment the third fluid may be used for reaction with a second fluid such as hydrogen H in a gas generator also marked as GG in to generate a high pressure fluid e.g. combustion gases for driving a turbine in a turbopump as further discussed below. In such case after pressure reduction through turbine remaining low pressure water vapor may be discharged overboard as indicated by reference arrow .

A selected actinide fuel F which provides a fissile material may be supplied from storage container for mixing with the first fluid . In an embodiment a selected fuel F may be provided in a particulate form. In an embodiment the selected fuel F may be provided in a very fine particulate or more specifically in a finely powdered form. In an embodiment the powdered fuel may comprise a selected actinide compound. In an embodiment the powdered fuel may comprise a substantially pure metallic actinide. In an embodiment the fuel F may be supplied in a form including of one or more plutonium Pu isotopes. In an embodiment the fuel F may be supplied in as a fissile material in the form of plutonium 239 Pu . In an embodiment the fuel F may be supplied as a fissile material in the form of uranium U . In various embodiments the selected fissile material providing fuel F before injection into the reactor may be provided in particulate form.

In an embodiment the first fluid from the first fluid storage compartment may be mixed with a selected amount of fuel F before injection into reactor . In an embodiment the first fluid and a selected amount of fuel F may be mixed to create a rich fuel mixture before passage of the rich fuel mixture i.e. a mixture of fuel F and first fluid through control valve and then into a fuel turbopump which pumps the fuel rich mixture into reactor via fuel supply line fuel header and a first set of fuel injectors which confine and direct passage of fuel rich mixture into reactor . In an embodiment control valve may provide on off capability. In various embodiments control valve may additionally provide throttling capability to regulate the quantity of flow of the rich fuel mixture . In an embodiment at time of injection the fuel rich mixture may be in gaseous form while carrying a particulate actinide fuel F therein. However as shown in in various embodiments at time of injection the fuel rich mixture may be in liquid form while carrying a particulate actinide fuel F therein. In an embodiment a first set of fuel injectors may be oriented at a selected inwardly directed angle alpha that directs a rich fuel mixture stream toward a reaction zone wherein energetic neutrons from neutron beam generator collide with atoms of fissile material in fuel F as found in the rich fuel mixture to cause fission of atoms of fuel F with resultant heat release. In any event a neutron beam generator which is further discussed below is configured to direct neutrons to collide with at least some of the fuel F fissile material in the reaction zone wherein the neutrons and the fissile material interact to thereby effect fission of at least some of the atoms of the fissile material in fuel F and release heat.

In various embodiments a rocket engine may operate with fission of the fissile material of fuel F under sub critical mass conditions. Under various embodiments the fissile material may include plutonium 239. In an embodiment the amount of plutonium 239 Pu provided may be between about thirty parts per million 30 ppm and about one hundred and twenty parts per million 120 ppm by weight in the first fluid . In an embodiment the amount of plutonium 239 Pu provided may be between about sixty parts per million 60 ppm and ninety parts per million 90 ppm by weight in the first fluid . In an embodiment for a rocket engine plutonium 239 Pu may be provided at about sixty parts per million 60 ppm by weight in the first fluid . In an embodiment for a rocket engine plutonium 239 Pu may be provided at up to about one thousand 1000 parts per million 1000 ppm by weight in the first fluid . In various embodiments for a rocket engine plutonium 239 Pu may be provided at somewhere in the range from about ninety 90 parts per million 90 ppm and about one thousand 1000 parts per million 1000 ppm by weight. In an embodiment fissionable fuel F may be provided at somewhere in the range from about ninety 90 parts per million 90 ppm and about one thousand 1000 parts per million 1000 ppm by weight depending on the efficiency at which the fuel F is consumed in the reactor . In various embodiments the first fluid may be provided as deuterium may be shown as either Dor H . In an embodiment the first fluid may be provided as hydrogen H .

In various embodiments the first fluid may include one or more isotopes of hydrogen. In an embodiment the first fluid may be primarily hydrogen. In an embodiment the first fluid may be essentially hydrogen. In an embodiment the first fluid may include deuterium. In an embodiment the first fluid may primarily be deuterium D . In an embodiment the first fluid may include essentially only deuterium D . In an embodiment the first fluid may include at least some tritium T . In an embodiment the first fluid may include both deuterium and tritium. In an embodiment the presence of tritium may induce secondary fusion reactions in the center of the fluid flow while being directed out through the nozzle thereby increasing specific impulse without significantly increasing engine wall temperature.

To provide thrust by way of heating and expansion in the reactor and resultant expulsion out thru expansion nozzle a low molecular weight fluid such as hydrogen H is provided as the second fluid . A second fluid may be stored in a second fluid storage compartment and on demand is delivered by line to the thrust fluid turbopump . The thrust fluid turbopump receives the second fluid from the second fluid storage compartment and provides generally indirectly the second fluid under pressure to the reaction chamber . In an embodiment the second fluid may be send under pressure from thrust fluid turbopump via second fluid supply line to a distribution ring located at or near the exit plane of expansion nozzle . The second fluid may be supplied via distribution ring to nozzle coolant passageways located on the exterior of expansion nozzle . In this manner an extremely cold fluid e.g. liquid hydrogen may be utilized as a coolant for the expansion nozzle by passage of the second fluid through the nozzle coolant passageways . Likewise as also seen in the reactor includes reactor coolant passageways on the reactor external surface . In this manner an extremely cold fluid e.g. liquid hydrogen is utilized as a coolant for the reactor by passage of the second fluid through the reactor coolant passageways . Thus the rocket engine may utilize the second fluid as a coolant by way of the passage of second fluid through the nozzle coolant passageways and through the reactor coolant passageways before injection of the second fluid into the reactor .

Once second fluid reaches the upper end of reactor a collection header may be utilized to accumulate the second fluid from the reactor coolant passageways . In an embodiment from collection header the second fluid may be directed to a second set of injectors which are configured for confining the passage of the second fluid during injection into the reactor . By way of injectors the second fluid may be directed toward or injected into a mixing zone which mixing zone is located downstream of the reaction zone . In mixing zone the second fluid is heated and expanded in order to provide thrust by ejection through throat and outlet of reactor . Also the first fluid is heated and expanded in order to provide thrust by ejection through throat and outlet of reactor .

As mentioned above in order to provide power for the thrust fluid turbopump a gas generating chamber may be provided to generate combustion products in the form of a hot gas that drives a turbine which in turn drives a pump impeller . Consequently when oxygen is supplied for combustion with hydrogen as second fluid water vapor is formed and the resultant low pressure water vapor stream is discharged overboard. Likewise hydrogen as second fluid and oxygen may be supplied to a second gas generating unit to generate hot gas that drives turbine which in turn drives fuel pump impeller in fuel turbopump .

In another embodiment for rocket engine as seen in a different design for a thrust fuel turbopump may be provided. In such design the thrust fuel turbopump may provide pumping of second fluid by pump impeller while also additionally providing an electrical generator . In an embodiment the electrical generator may be configured to generate electrical power and supply the same via electrical power lines and to neutron beam generator . In an embodiment a thrust fluid turbopump may further include a fuel turbopump for receiving first fluid from the first fluid storage compartment and providing the first fluid under pressure to reactor . In an embodiment the thrust fluid turbopump rotor the fuel turbopump rotor and the electrical generator may all be driven by a gas turbine on a common shaft or via gearbox from a common shaft .

In various embodiments for a rocket engine or the like using nuclear thermal heating of a low molecular weight gas such as hydrogen as described herein a rocket engine may be provided that has a specific impulse in excess of about 800 seconds. In various embodiments specific impulse may be in the range of from about 800 to about 2500 seconds. In various embodiments using nuclear thermal heating of a low molecular weight gas such as hydrogen as described herein a rocket engine may be provided that has a specific impulse in the range of from about 1000 to about 1215 seconds.

To summarize in order to facilitate supply of hydrogen to the reactor for heating a thrust fluid turbopump or or the like may be provided as generally described herein above. In an embodiment liquid hydrogen i.e. a cryogenic liquid may be provided to the rocket engine or by way of a thrust fluid turbopump that is driven by a turbine which is rotatably energized by high temperature gases. In an embodiment the high temperature gases may be provided by way of combustion products such as by way of combustion of hydrogen and oxygen in a gas generating chamber GG to generate a high temperature combustion gas which after passage through the turbine or as the case may be may be exhausted overboard in the form of a water vapor stream or . The tradeoff of loss of efficiency due to loss of propellant hydrogen expended in the gas generating chamber GG in view of the usual weight savings and simplicity of design and lack of radioactive contamination as compared to additional weight and complexity in view of any additional specific impulse contribution in designs that might avoid such combustion losses may be evaluated for a specific space vehicle design and attendant mission profile as will be understood by those of skill in the art. Various configurations for drive of a suitable thrust fluid turbopump for feeding hydrogen to the reaction chamber may be provided by those of skill in the art using conventional liquid turbopump system design principles and thus it is unnecessary to provide such details. In general the thrust fluid turbopump must avoid cavitation while pumping liquid hydrogen at relatively low inlet pressure and deliver the hydrogen to the reaction chamber and in an embodiment via distribution ring and cooling passageways at very high pressure and preferably with capability to provide a relatively wide throttling range. In various embodiments the selected thrust fluid turbopump or design may be optimized for minimizing weight while providing necessary performance while at the same time minimizing the thrust fluid turbopump package size in order to minimize necessary space in a selected space vehicle design. Selection of suitable bearing sand seals are of course necessary and various design alternatives are known to those of skill in the art. More generally those of skill in the art will understand that turbopumps for supply of cryogenic liquids to rocket engines require designs that provide maximum performance at minimum weight.

Similarly to facilitate supply of the plutonium carrying deuterium gas to the reactor for fission of at least some of the plutonium a fuel turbopump may be provided. In an embodiment liquid deuterium i.e. a cryogenic liquid may be provided to the rocket engine or by way of a fuel turbopump or that is driven by a turbine or which is rotatably energized by high temperature gases. In an embodiment the high temperature gases may be provided by way of combustion products such as by way of combustion of hydrogen and oxygen to generate a high temperature combustion gas. Various configurations for drive of a suitable fuel turbopump for feeding deuterium and plutonium carried therewith to the reaction chamber may be provided by those of skill in the art using conventional liquid turbopump system design principles and thus it is unnecessary to provide such details. In general the fuel turbopump or must avoid cavitation while pumping liquid deuterium at relatively low inlet pressure and deliver the deuterium to the reaction chamber at very high pressure and preferably with capability to provide a relatively wide throttling range. In various embodiments the selected fuel turbopump design may be optimized for minimizing weight while providing necessary performance while at the same time minimizing fuel turbopump package size in order to minimize necessary space in a selected space vehicle design.

Further in order to generate electricity for a selected neutron beam generator an electrical generator may be combined with a turbopump so that a hot gas driven turbine in the turbopump also provides shaft power for an electrical generator . In an embodiment the high temperature gases may be provided by way of combustion products such as by way of combustion of hydrogen and oxygen in a gas generating chamber GG to generate a high temperature combustion gas which after passage through the gas turbine may be exhausted overboard via a water vapor exhaust tube . Alternately a stand alone electrical turbine generator may be provided with its own hydrogen gas or combustion gas driven turbine in the manner as generally described above.

In an embodiment a deuterium deuterium DD type neutron generator may be utilized. As an example high yield neutron generators are currently available for various applications with variable neutron output between 1 10and 5 10neutrons per second n s . It is an advantage of a DD type neutron generator design that because no tritium is utilized radiation shielding and accompanying safety concerns and regulatory burdens are significantly reduced. Thus such designs may be more suitable for manned space vehicles.

However in an embodiment a deuterium tritium DT type neutron generator may be utilized. As an example extremely high yield neutron generators based on DT design principles are currently available with variable neutron output between 1 10and 5 10neutrons per second n s . Such designs may require appropriate shielding and regulatory approvals for manned spaceflight applications but may be especially suitable for high payload unmanned spaceflight vehicle applications.

Neutron generators of either deuterium deuterium design or of deuterium tritium design have been developed by Phoenix Nuclear Labs 2555 Industrial Drive Monona Wis. 53713 with a web page at phoenixnuclearlabs.com. Other vendors currently provide different designs. For example Gradel Group 6 Z.A.E. Triangle Vert L 5691 ELLANGE Luxembourg see website at gradel.lu en activities neutrons generators products 14 1 mev neutrons dt currently provides a 14 MeV neutron generator of deuterium tritium design with basic functionality as follows D T He 3.5 MeV 14.1 MeV 

It is currently anticipated that any selected neutron beam generator design may require adaptive configurations to various structures and components to make them suitable for the rigors of a rocket launch and subsequent spaceflight environment. However the fundamental principles described herein for creation of a fission based rocket engine may be achieved by provision of a suitably adapted neutron beam generator device.

As a further example of adaptive design configurations for a neutron generator attention is directed to which provides details for an embodiment of a nuclear thermal rocket engine which is configured for controlled pulse reaction between atoms of fissionable fuel F diagrammatically depicted as diamonds in and neutrons generated omni directional in an embodiment from target material in neutron generator . In an embodiment a neutron beam generator may include a ion generator and a target container containing a target material . In an embodiment a target container may include a target container reactor portion which extends into the reactor . The neutron beam generator is configured to accelerate ions such as deuterium ions or a combination of deuterium and tritium ions toward the target material normally containing deuterium. When deuterium is utilized for creation of an ion beam two deuterium ions fuse resulting in D D type fusion. If tritium is used for creation of an ion beam a deuterium and a tritium ion fuse resulting in D T fusion. In both cases neutrons are the by products of the fusion reaction. Various suitable target materials are known in the art for manufacture of neutron generators. One commonly utilized design technique for selection of a target material is to use or at least coat a target material with palladium or some other metal that readily forms hydrides or since deuterium is used deuterides. In an embodiment a palladium coating might be used since palladium may store nearly one deuterium atom for each palladium atom. However a typical target material may need to remain cool in order to maintain an acceptable density of deuterium target atoms since excess heating may cause the actual targeted atoms for neutron generation to be desorbed from a metal target in which target atoms are initially saturated. In an embodiment in order to cool the target container and the target material inside second fluid such as cryogenic hydrogen H2 may be utilized. In an embodiment a second fluid such as cryogenic hydrogen H2 may be injected to header and thence along a cooling passageway defined by cooling sleeve that houses an ion beam pathway . As shown in the cooling sleeve may have mounted at or near a distal end a target material in which target atoms not shown are contained. Cooling sleeve may include outlets from which second fluid is ejected as a heated second fluid thus allowing fresh cooling of the target material via incoming cool second fluid as may be supplied in an embodiment via turbopump . In an embodiment for a fifty thousand pound thrust engine initial simulations have found that inserting the target material a distance of about ten 10 inches down into the reactor should be effective in producing millions of fissions using impacts with the fissionable fuel atoms . Neutron generation rates of 10neutrons per second as may be produced from current technology deuterium deuterium D D neutron generators would thus be sufficient to produce enough energy to power rocket engine . Further manufacturers of neutron beam generators have indicated that 10neutrons per second should be obtainable with currently available technology. Consequently a combination of 10fissions per neutron and 10neutrons per second from a neutron generator would be adequate to produce fission rates greater than about 10as required to produce specific impulses over 1000 seconds.

In order to maintain inner sidewalls of reactor at a structurally workable temperature pulsed timing of nuclear reactions maybe desirable so that the amount of energy released over a selected time interval does not exceed the capability of cooling of second fluid as expanded and heated from the nuclear reaction when injected via second set of injectors according to a selected injection mixing and thermal behavior profile. To pulse the release of energy from nuclear reactions energetic neutrons and fissionable atoms in the fuel F may be brought together intermittently. In an embodiment use of controllable fuel injectors may be desirable. In an embodiment one or more of the fuel injector valves may be utilized to control an on off supply of fuel rich mixture e.g. via line to reactor . In an embodiment one or more or each of fuel injector valves may be utilized for modulated control of supply of fuel rich mixture e.g. first fluid having fuel F therein via line to reactor . By intermittent supply or by modulated supply of fissionable fuel F to reactor the rate of energy release and thus heating of propellant second fluid e.g. hydrogen as well as heating of adjacent components such as target container and inner sidewalls of reactor is controlled. Likewise by adjusting the energy released in each pulse the structural integrity e.g yield under stress strain at high temperature may be set at workable limits which will of course depend on selected materials of construction and applicable design techniques for such structural materials.

As depicted in in an embodiment the first fluid from the first fluid storage compartment may be hydrogen H . The first fluid may be mixed with a selected amount of fuel F before injection into reactor via injectors . In an embodiment the first fluid and a selected amount of fuel F may be mixed to create a rich fuel mixture before passage of the rich fuel mixture i.e. a mixture of fuel F and first fluid through control valve and then into a fuel turbopump which pumps the fuel rich mixture into reactor via fuel supply line through a fuel header not seen in but functionally the same as shown and described above and thru fuel injector valves to a set of fuel injectors which direct passage of fuel rich mixture into reactor . In an embodiment control valve may provide on off capability. In various embodiments control valve may additionally provide throttling capability to regulate the quantity of flow of the rich fuel mixture . In an embodiment at time of injection the fuel rich mixture may be in gaseous form while carrying a particulate actinide fuel F therein. However as shown in in various embodiments at time of injection the fuel rich mixture may be in liquid form while carrying an actinide fuel F therein. In an embodiment fuel injectors may be oriented at a selected angle that directs a rich fuel mixture stream toward a reaction zone wherein energetic neutrons from neutron beam generator collide with atoms of fissile material in fuel F as found in the rich fuel mixture to cause fission of atoms of fuel F with resultant heat release.

In the foregoing description for purposes of explanation numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for the design of a nuclear thermal rocket engine operable in sub critical mass fissile conditions. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further for descriptive purposes various relative terms may be used. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. And various actions or activities in any method described herein may have been described as multiple discrete activities in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the present invention. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such activities are necessarily order dependent. In particular certain operations may not necessarily need to be performed precisely in the order of presentation. And in different embodiments of the invention one or more activities may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other activities may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase in an embodiment or in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that various embodiments for novel nuclear thermal rocket engine designs utilizing sub critical mass fission of a selected actinide fissile material have been described herein only to an extent appropriate for such skilled persons to make and use such nuclear thermal rocket engine. Additional details may be worked out by those of skill in the art for a selected set of mission requirements and design criteria such as whether the mission is manned or unmanned e.g. whether any necessary radiation minimization or radiation shielding may be required . Although only certain specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described there is no intent to limit this invention by these embodiments. Rather the invention is to be defined by the appended claims and their equivalents when taken in combination with the description.

Importantly the aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Therefore the embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. As such this disclosure is intended to cover the structures described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures.

Numerous modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

