---

title: Self-limiting filters for band-selective interferer rejection or cognitive receiver protection
abstract: The present invention related to self-limiting filters, arrays of such filters, and methods thereof. In particular embodiments, the filters include a metal transition film (e.g., a VOfilm) capable of undergoing a phase transition that modifies the film's resistivity. Arrays of such filters could allow for band-selective interferer rejection, while permitting transmission of non-interferer signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590284&OS=09590284&RS=09590284
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09590284
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150526
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 003 494 filed May 27 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to self limiting filters arrays of such filters and methods thereof. In particular embodiments the filters include a metal transition film e.g. a VOfilm capable of undergoing a phase transition that modifies the film s resistivity.

Radio frequency electronics employ various transmitter and receiver components for advanced telecommunication and tracking systems. Such components include amplifiers and filters that can be sensitive to damage arising from high powered interferers. Current technologies to protect sensitive receivers include frequency selective surfaces antennas diodes or ferrite based limiters which can introduce unwanted harmonics. Further many available technologies are incompatible with traditional fabrication processes. In addition some of the available limiters are not frequency selective meaning that all input signals are reflected if an interferer is present. Accordingly there is a need for alternative filter and limiter designs such as those capable of selectively filtering undesired interferers while permitting other communication signals.

The present invention relates to a self limiting filter having an automatic rejection capability. In particular embodiments the filter of the invention includes a phase change vanadium dioxide VO thin film located at a particular node of a resonating portion. At a particular threshold power or temperature the VOfilm undergoes a phase change which in turn alters the resistive state of the film. By passing an input signal through the film the input signal imposes a change in power or temperature upon the film which effectively changes the resistivity of the film. The phase change capability of the film can be employed to develop a self limiting filter that automatically rejects an input signal above that threshold power or temperature.

In one instance the VOfilm is configured to be relatively insulating at low power but conductive at a higher power. This phase change capability can be used to form a filter. This filter in turn can be configured to divert an input signal to two or more signal pathways. If the input signal is of a sufficiently low power i.e. below the threshold power then the signal is diverted to a first signal pathway that travels through the circuit. Alternatively if the input signal is of a sufficiently high power i.e. above the threshold power then the signal is diverted to a second signal pathway that shunts the input signal to ground. In this manner the low powered input signals are transmitted through the circuit and the high powered input signals are reflected from the remaining portion of the circuit.

Thus when an interferer of sufficiently high power reaches the resonating portion the VOfilm undergoes a phase change that provides a conductive film thereby shunting the interferer to ground and effectively reflecting the signal in the frequency band of the interferer. When the interferer is removed the VOfilm undergoes a phase change that restores the initial conductivity of the film i.e. to a relatively insulating film thereby permitting signal transmission e.g. through the resonating portion and or the circuit . With this approach an array of band select filters has the ability to reflect the signal in a channel when an interferer is present but continue to allow signals of interest in adjacent channels to remain active.

As described herein the phase change or switching capability of the film depends on thermal heating of the film e.g. having a threshold temperature of about 68 C. . This switching behavior can be induced in any useful manner such as by a change in heat e.g. above or below a threshold temperature power e.g. above or below a threshold power voltage e.g. above or below a threshold voltage current e.g. above or below a threshold current electrical field e.g. above or below a threshold electric field etc. imposed by an input signal.

In one aspect the invention features a self limiting filter including an input configured to receive an input signal an output configured to transmit an output signal a ground connection one or more resonant portions where at least one resonant portion is connected to the input and the output and a phase transition material e.g. a phase transition film connecting at least one resonant portion e.g. at an open end of the resonant portion to the ground connection. In some embodiments the phase transition material is configured to operate in a transmissive state below a threshold power e.g. configured to relay or transmit an input signal through the filter when that input signal is below the threshold power such as in the passband and in a reflective state above the threshold power e.g. configured to reflect or block an input signal through the filter when that input signal is above the threshold power such as in the passband thereby providing the self limiting filter. In other embodiments the phase transition material is conductive above a threshold power and insulating below the threshold power thereby providing the self limiting filter.

In another aspect the invention features a self limiting filter including an input configured to receive an input signal an output configured to transmit an output signal a ground connection one or more resonant portions where at least one resonant portion is connected to the input and the output and a shunt element connecting at least one resonant portion e.g. at an open end of the resonant portion to the ground connection where the shunt element includes a phase transition material e.g. a phase transition film .

In yet another aspect the invention features a filter array including a plurality of self limiting filters e.g. any described herein . Each filter can be different e.g. characterized by a different resonant frequency center frequency and or cutoff frequency .

In other embodiments the filter array is characterized by a passband and each filter is characterized by a different resonant frequency center frequency and or cutoff frequency within the passband.

Exemplary phase transition materials include vanadium oxide e.g. VO VO VO VO VO VO VO and VO niobium oxide e.g. NbO a nickelate e.g. SmNiO NdNiO and PrNiO an iron oxide e.g. FeO a titanium oxide e.g. TiOand TiO a cobaltate e.g. LaCoO or a doped form thereof e.g. a chromium doped form thereof .

In any embodiment herein each filter individually is a coupled line filter a microstrip filter or a parallel coupled microstrip filter.

As used herein the term about means 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

The present invention relates to a self limiting filter which can be an individual band select filter have an automatic rejection capability. In use the filter receives a signal as normal until the signal in its band reaches a certain power threshold at which point the filter pole is changed into a zero reflecting the signal of the interferer . When the interferer is removed then filter pole is automatically reset and the device continues to operate as normal.

With this approach an array of band select filters has the ability to reflect the signal in a channel when an interferer is present but continue to allow signals of interest in adjacent channels to remain active . This is implemented using a phase change vanadium dioxide VO thin film. When the RF power in the filter increases the temperature of the film significantly the film changes from an insulator to a metal shorting a section of the filter and rejecting or reflecting further signals in that band. This approach takes advantage of the architecture of existing channelized systems. Accordingly the present filters and arrays thereof can be implemented with such channelized systems.

The self limiting filter includes any useful components to receive and transmit signal as well as to facilitate configuration with the phase change material. provides an exemplary self limiting filter that is a parallel coupled filter. The filter includes a plurality of resonating portions . The first resonating portion is configured to receive an input and the nresonating portion is configured to transmit an output .

As can be seen the filter can include any n number of useful resonating portions e.g. n can be 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more . In addition each nresonating portion can be characterized by any useful parameters related to the device s resonant frequency center frequency fractional bandwidth reflected power etc. Exemplary parameters include length of the overlapping resonating portions Lor L e.g. L L etc. total length of each resonating portion total length of the resonant length i.e. a length from one end of the first resonator and the nresonator gap between resonating portions g e.g. g g etc. and width of the resonating portion w e.g. w w etc. .

In one embodiment the open end of second resonating portion is connected to a phase change material which in turn is connected to a ground connection not shown . The ground connection can be a contact pad in the same plane as the resonating portions or a ground layer located beneath the device layer having the resonating portions. These connections can be made in any useful manner such as by wirebonds wires leads etc. In addition any resonating potion can be connected to the phase change material in any useful configuration.

Exemplary phase change materials include VO NbO and doped forms thereof such as CrVO where x is between 0 and 0.15. Other materials are described herein. In particular doping can be used to control T which is the temperature at which the material transitions from an insulating state e.g. a monoclinic state to a metallic state e.g. tetragonal state . For instance doping of VOwith Cr increases T e.g. from 50 C. up to 75 C. at 11 Cr such that the critical temperature and the threshold power for the device can be controlled. Exemplary dopants include chromium titanium germanium iron cobalt nickel molybdenum niobium tantalum and or tungsten.

The phase change material can be provided in any useful form such as a thin film a nanoparticle embedded in a film or a substrate e.g. silica a dielectric or an insulator a coating etc. Methods of making doping and testing phase change materials are described in Scott S et al. A frequency selective surface with integrated limiter for receiver protection 2012 . held on 8 14 Jul. 2012 pp. 1 2 Cavalleri A et al. Ultra broadband femtosecond measurements of the photo induced phase transition in VO From the mid IR to the hard x rays 2006 January 75 1 1 9 Futaki H et al. Effects of various doping elements on the transition temperature of vanadium oxide semiconductors 1969 8 8 1008 13 Aurelian C et al. Chapter 3 Exploiting the semiconductor metal phase transition of VOmaterials a novel direction towards tunable devices and systems for RF microwave applications pp. 35 56 in Moumita Mukherjee ed. InTech published online Mar. 1 2010 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 642 881 and 8 067 996 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The filters of the invention can be used to protect sensitive components against high powered interferers. The architecture described herein allows for filter banks capable of automatically rejecting interferers yet allowing signals of interest to pass. In particular embodiments the filter is capable of automatically rejecting high powered interferers within its band but is not affected by high powered signals out of band. Other exemplary uses include switches circuits e.g. amplifier tuning circuits or coupler tuning circuits shutters transmission line systems and receiver systems.

In the operation of radio frequency electronics undesirable high powered interferers have the potential to damage sensitive receiver components such as low noise amplifiers or surface acoustic wave filters. Frequency selective surfaces and antennas provide a first line of defense from these interferers by rejecting out of band signals. Typically a diode or ferrite based limiter then protects components further down the signal chain. Unfortunately these components introduce unwanted harmonics due to clipping of the signal and most are not compatible with traditional fabrication processes requiring post processing or surface mounting of components. In addition communications are still likely inoperable as the clipped signal is likely either still in the receiver chain or the diode is driven to a low impedance state reflecting even signals of interest.

One potential solution has been presented in which a signal is sent first through a de multiplexer consisting of an array of bandpass filters next a limiter array which is made up of individual amplifiers which exhibit gain saturation and finally a multiplexer. Together this yields an amplifier with channelized limiting properties Rauscher C A channelized limiter approach to receiver front end protection 1996 July 44 7 1125 9 . In a practical case the amplifiers would likely be replaced with individual limiters as otherwise nothing is provided to protect the amplifiers themselves. This is a very interesting approach but has some drawbacks. In this implementation the isolation is limited to around 7 dB and the additional size required by the components may be prohibitive. Furthermore the limiter component itself would still introduce the undesirable harmonics and require surface mounting.

Limiters utilizing the phase change of vanadium dioxide VOthin films have been proposed in Givernaud J et al. Microwave power limiting devices based on the semiconductor metal transition in vanadium dioxide thin films 2010 September 58 9 2352 61. As the power through a section of co planar waveguide increases the film gradually heats until the film undergoes a phase change at around 70 C. Benefits of this implementation include the following reflection instead of clipping potential for extremely fast switching times Cavalleri A et al. Ultra broadband femtosecond measurements of the photo induced phase transition in VO From the mid IR to the hard x rays 2006 January 75 1 1 9 yielding low spike leakage and the ability to dope the film to modify the transition temperature Futaki H et al. Effects of various doping elements on the transition temperature of vanadium oxide semiconductors 1969 8 8 1008 13 . However the limiters these authors demonstrated would begin to reflect any signal if an interferer is present regardless of the frequency. This would render communications systems inoperable until the interferer is no longer present. This same issue is present in frequency selective surfaces with integrated limiters shown in Scott S et al. A frequency selective surface with integrated limiter for receiver protection 2012 . held on 8 14 Jul. 2012 pp. 1 2.

A more desirable solution is one in which individual band select filters have an automatic rejection capability. A filter receives a signal as normal until the signal in its band reaches a certain power threshold at which point the filter pole is changed into a zero reflecting the signal of the interferer. When the interferer is removed the filter pole is automatically reset and the device continues to operate as normal. With this approach an array of band select filters has the ability to reflect the signal in a channel when an interferer is present but continue to allow signals of interest in adjacent channels to remain active . This is implemented using a phase change vanadium dioxide VO thin film. When the RF power in the filter increases the temperature of the film significantly the film changes from an insulator to a metal shorting a section of the filter and rejecting further signals in that band. This approach takes advantage of the architecture of existing channelized systems.

Accordingly described herein is a new frequency selective limiting filter. This is accomplished by placing a phase change VOfilm at the proper node of the filter. When the high powered microwave signal reaches a certain threshold the VOundergoes a phase transition from the monoclinic insulating state to the tetragonal metallic state. This crystallographic change is accompanied by a three order of magnitude drop in the film s resistivity and creates a short circuit at a section of the filter changing a pole to a zero and rejecting further undesirable high powered signals from damaging sensitive receiver components. This Example details the design and simulation of the filter along with measurement results from VOfilms and the filter element. This filter element began rejecting at about 2 W input power with isolation of over 16 dB to over 23 W input power and is unaffected by an out of band interferer of over 25 W. The architecture presented allows for filter banks capable of automatically rejecting interferers yet allowing signals of interest to pass. Details follow.

The filter used for the proof of concept here is a simple two pole coupled line microstrip design centered around 2.4 GHz. However the method used in this work is applicable to a wide variety of filters and frequencies. An HFSS finite element simulation HFSS 14.0 ANSYS Inc. Canonsburg Pa. was next performed to optimize the design of the filter.

Then the filter was fabricated using traditional PCB manufacturing processes. The filter ports were 50 ohms. The resonant sections connected to the input and output lines were 0.82 mm wide. The center resonant sections were 0.92 mm wide and were separated by 1.06 mm. The overlap between each resonant section was about 15 mm resulting in a total length for each resonant line of about 30 mm. The filter was then fabricated on a 25 mil Roger s Corporation 6006 printed circuit board PCB material Rogers RT Duroid 6006 PTFE Ceramic Laminate Rogers Corporation Woodstock Conn. . The VOfilm used in this case was sputtered and patterned on a bare silicon wafer and diced after deposition and patterning of the subsequent layers. The top metal electrodes were connected via wirebonds to the PCB below . This was done solely for convenience. Sputtering and patterning the VOdirectly on the PCB or designing the filter on the wafer are possible methods of integration.

The resistance versus temperature of the VOresistor was measured using a hot plate and DC probes . As temperature increased the film changed from a monoclinic insulator state to a tetragonal metallic state Zylbersztejn A et al. Metal insulator transition in vanadium dioxide 1975 June 11 4383 95 and the resistivity dropped by three orders of magnitude.

The S Parameters of the filter versus temperature were measured to determine the passband of the filter. A two port SOLT calibration was performed with SMA calibration standards on an Agilent PNA. The filter was then measured at room temperature to determine the normal small signal operating condition of the filter. The temperature of the filter and VOsample was then increased via a hotplate and the S Parameters were measured at elevated temperatures. The high temperature states represented the condition of the filter when a high power interferer is present in the band. Results shown in highlight over 16 dB of isolation in the passband when a high powered interferer was present.

The power measurement setup is shown in . First a synthesized sweeper outputted a 2.2 GHz in filter passband signal. The signal power was ramped up from 20 dBm while a power amplifier increased the signal power. A 20 dB coupler next fed a power meter to record P an isolator in the form of a circulator with large attenuator protected the amplifier output and the power was delivered to the device under test. The output port of the filter fed the second channel of the power meter corresponding to P.

The results of the measurement are shown in . As the power input to the filter increased the power output increased linearly. When the threshold power as reached the VOfilm was heated to its transition point and shunted the filter to ground. Then the filter began to reflect instead of transmit the signal.

The isolation increased with further power increase. Once the filter was brought again to a low power state it returned to its normal operating state. Note that when power was not in the passband of the filter an insufficient field was generated at the location of the VOfor the device to heat up. This was demonstrated by sweeping a 1.5 GHz signal outside of the filter s passband up to 25 W and observing the filter s transfer characteristics.

In conclusion described herein is a band selective rejection of interferers along with design simulation and measurement of a filter with automatic limiting capability. This was enabled by the phase transition of vanadium dioxide thin films materials. The filter exhibited over 16 dB of isolation when an interferer is present. Future iterations will demonstrate multiband functionality and allow for direct integration by directly fabricating the filter and sputtering the VOfilm on the filter substrate directly.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

