---

title: Shared spectrum load balancing based on network load
abstract: A wireless telecommunications system may be configured to provide wireless service via unlicensed, licensed, and/or shared frequency bands (e.g., frequency bands that are shared with other telecommunications systems, and for which access is regulated by an external entity). A load balancing technique, described herein, may provide load balancing between licensed and shared frequency bands based on relative load of the licensed and shared networks, and/or other factors (e.g., a priority access license (“PAL”) of a base station to which the user device is attached). Techniques described herein may be useful in carrier aggregation, in which a user device may simultaneously attach to multiple carriers (e.g., a licensed carrier, along with a shared carrier and/or an unlicensed carrier).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516549&OS=09516549&RS=09516549
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09516549
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150623
---
User devices such as wireless telephones may wirelessly connect or attach to a wireless network via a base station. The base station may provide multiple carriers to which the user devices may attach. As used herein a particular carrier may refer to a particular radio access technology a particular frequency band and or a particular set of frequencies within a frequency band. The frequency bands provided by the base station may include licensed frequency bands. Licensed frequency bands may be frequency bands which have been licensed by an authoritative entity such as a government agency for exclusive use by a particular wireless network service provider. In some situations the base station may also provide service according to one or more shared frequency bands. Shared frequency bands may be frequency bands that have been authorized e.g. by an authoritative entity for use by multiple wireless network service providers.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Wireless network service providers may obtain licenses e.g. exclusive or priority licenses to operate wireless networks at certain frequency bands licensed frequency bands . Wireless network service providers may also obtain licenses to operate wireless networks at shared frequency bands which may be shared with other wireless network service providers. Access to a shared frequency band may be controlled by an owner or an incumbent associated with the shared frequency band or an authoritative entity such as a governmental agency . In some situations a base station of a wireless network may perform load balancing e.g. during carrier aggregation scenarios and or when receiving attach requests from user devices . Specifically in accordance with some implementations described herein network load of various bands e.g. of shared spectrum bands licensed spectrum bands and or unlicensed spectrum bands may be determined or approximated. This network load information may be used to load balance user devices across available bands e.g. carrier aggregation may be performed across multiple bands when respective bands are not overloaded .

Environment may include an evolved packet system EPS that includes a Long Term Evolution LTE network and or an evolved packet core EPC network that operate based on a third generation partnership project 3GPP wireless communication standard. The LTE network may be or may include a radio access network RAN that includes one or more base stations some or all of which may take the form of an evolved node B eNB via which user device may communicate with the EPC network. The EPC network may include one or more SGWs PGWs and or MMEs and may enable user device to communicate with PDN and or an Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS core network. The IMS core network may include HSS AAA server and may manage authentication session initiation account information a user profile etc. associated with user device .

User device may include any computation and communication device such as a wireless mobile communication device that is capable of communicating with base station and or PDN . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. a device that combines a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a smart phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a camera a wearable device a personal gaming system or another type of mobile computation and communication device. User device may send traffic to and or receive traffic from PDN via base station backhaul network MLS SGW and or PGW .

Base station may include one or more network devices that receive process and or transmit traffic such as calls audio video text and or other data destined for and or received from user device . In one example base station may be an eNB device and may be part of the LTE network. Additionally or alternatively one or more other base stations may be associated with a RAN that is not associated with the LTE network e.g. a wireless hot spot a wireless access point etc. . Base station may receive traffic from and or send traffic to user device via SGW PGW and or PDN . Base station may send traffic to and or receive traffic from user device via for example an air interface e.g. a cellular air interface .

Base station may be associated with one or more cells. The term cell as used to herein may generally refer to a coverage area provided by base station . A particular cell may for example be associated with one or more radios pointed in the same general direction. The different radios may each be associated with a particular frequency band and or more than one radio may be associated with a particular frequency band. For example one or more radios may be associated with a licensed frequency band while one or more other radios of the cell may be associated with a shared frequency band. Base station may include processing logic and or hardware circuitry that may enable base station to perform inter frequency handovers and or carrier aggregation. For example base station may hand over a particular user device from one frequency band to another frequency band e.g. from a licensed frequency band to another licensed frequency band from a shared frequency band to another shared frequency band from a shared frequency band to a licensed frequency band or from a licensed frequency band to a shared frequency band . Base station may also perform intra frequency handovers e.g. hand over a particular user device from one sub band to another sub band of a particular frequency band and or may perform inter radio access technology RAT handovers e.g. may hand over a particular user device from one RAT to another RAT . Additionally or alternatively base station may perform carrier aggregation in which multiple carriers may be used for a particular user device in order to improve performance e.g. throughput latency and or reliability experienced by the particular user device .

Load balancer may include one or more devices that perform load balancing of user devices with respect to various carriers where a carrier may refer to a particular frequency band a particular frequency sub band and or a particular RAT associated with base station . For example load balancer may determine measures of load associated with particular carriers associated with base station and may make handover decisions based on the measures of load. For example if a first carrier is relatively overloaded while a second carrier is relatively underutilized load balancer may output an instruction to base station to hand over one or more user devices connected to the first carrier to the second carrier. As described herein the load balancing decisions made by load balancer may be based on one or more other factors. For instance load balancer may make load balancing decisions based on access permissions to shared frequency bands provided by SAS manager . Additionally or alternatively load balancer may make load balancing decisions based on factors such as a device type of user device and or a traffic type associated with user device .

While one base station and one load balancer are shown in e.g. a one to one arrangement other arrangements are possible in practice. For example in some implementations one load balancer may perform load balancing for multiple base stations . In some implementations some portions of Load balancer e.g. as discussed below with respect to may perform some functionality associated with multiple base stations while other portions of load balancer may be arranged on a one to one basis with base stations . In some implementations load balancer may be implemented as part of base station e.g. may be implemented as software logic within base station and or as integrated hardware circuitry within base station .

SAS manager may include one or more devices that provide information such as access permissions load information or the like to base station and or load balancer . The access permissions may indicate for example a level of access permitted to a particular shared frequency band. For example access permissions may indicate a maximum transmit strength associated with a particular shared frequency band may specify a permissible coverage area or radius associated with a particular shared frequency band and or may indicate a maximum measure of permissible load e.g. a maximum quantity of permitted user devices a maximum amount of permitted throughput etc. associated with a particular shared frequency band. SAS manager may be owned by operated by managed by and or receive information from an entity that owns a license to operate and or control access to a shared frequency band such as an incumbent and or a governmental agency. As referred to herein an incumbent may be an entity that has top tier e.g. a highest priority access to the shared frequency band. SAS manager may in some implementations communicate with base station and or load balancer via one or more networks and devices e.g. via PDN and or an Operations System Support OSS device not pictured .

Backhaul network may include one or more network devices e.g. routers and or switches and links e.g. fiber or coaxial links that connect base station to a core network e.g. a core network that includes and or is associated with MLS SGW and or PGW .

MLS may include one or more network devices that perform switching functionality on traffic received from SGW and or backhaul network . MLS may operate multiple layers of the Open Systems Interconnection OSI reference model in contrast with other types of switches that traditionally operate only on the Data Link Layer DLL . For example MLS may perform deep packet inspection to perform routing functions.

SGW may include one or more network devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. SGW may for example aggregate traffic received from one or more base stations and may send the aggregated traffic to PDN via PGW .

PGW may include one or more network devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. PGW may aggregate traffic received from one or more SGWs etc. and may send the aggregated traffic to PDN . PGW may also or alternatively receive traffic from PDN and may send the traffic toward user device via base station and SGW .

MME may include one or more computation and communication devices that perform operations to register user device with the EPS to establish bearer channels associated with a session with user device to hand off user device from the EPS to another network to hand off user device from the other network to the EPS and or to perform other operations. MME may perform policing operations on traffic destined for and or received from user device .

HSS AAA server may include one or more devices that manage update and or store in a memory associated with HSS AAA server profile information associated with a subscriber. The profile information may identify applications and or services that are permitted for and or accessible by the subscriber a mobile directory number MDN associated with the subscriber bandwidth or data rate thresholds associated with the applications and or services information associated with the subscriber e.g. a username a password etc. rate information minutes allowed for a subscriber e.g. a subscriber associated with user device information regarding services to which particular subscribers are subscribed e.g. communication services such as video conferencing services voice chat services etc. and or other information. Additionally or alternatively HSS AAA server may perform authentication authorization and or accounting operations associated with the subscriber and or a communication session with user device .

PCRF may include one or more devices that aggregate information to and from the EPC network and or other sources. PCRF may receive information regarding policies and or subscriptions from one or more sources such as subscriber databases and or from one or more users such as for example an administrator associated with PCRF .

PDN may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example PDN may include an Internet Protocol IP based PDN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a core network of a telecommunications provider a private enterprise network and or one or more other networks. User device may connect through PGW to data servers application servers other user devices content provider and or to other servers or applications that are coupled to PDN . PDN may be connected to one or more other networks such as a public switched telephone network PSTN a public land mobile network PLMN and or another network. While direct connections are shown in between certain devices some devices may communicate with each other via PDN . For example SAS manager may communicate with base station and or load balancer indirectly such as via PDN and or another network.

Interfaces may generally include hardware circuitry and or software logic that allow base station to communicate wirelessly with one or more other devices such as user device . Interfaces may each operate at different respective RATs and or frequency bands. For example licensed spectrum interface may utilize one or more RATs and or operate at one or more frequency bands that are associated with a licensed spectrum. For instance licensed spectrum interface may operate according to an LTE RAT a 3GPP Third Generation 3G RAT and or another RAT that corresponds to a licensed spectrum.

Shared spectrum interface may utilize one or more RATs and or operate at one or more frequency bands that are associated with a shared spectrum. For instance shared spectrum interface may operate according to an LTE RAT at a different frequency band than licensed LTE frequency bands. For example in some implementations the licensed LTE frequency bands may include a 700 Megahertz MHz band while the shared LTE frequency bands may include a 3.5 Gigahertz GHz band.

Unlicensed spectrum interface may utilize one or more RATs and or operate at one or more frequency bands that are associated with an unlicensed spectrum. For instance unlicensed spectrum interface may operate according to an LTE Unlicensed LTE U RAT an LTE Licensed Assisted Access LTE LAA RAT a Wi Fi RAT e.g. a RAT based on an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 based standard or the like. In some implementations unlicensed spectrum interface may operate at a 5 GHz band a 2.4 GHz band or another unlicensed frequency band.

Base station may receive via unlicensed spectrum interface information relating to user devices that are within communication range of base station e.g. communication range via an unlicensed RAT . The information may include for instance signal strength information such as a Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI a Signal to Interference and Noise Ratio SINR and or another indicator of signal strength. The signal strength information may be for example received from one or more user devices and or may be determined by unlicensed spectrum interface or another component of base station based on communications with one or more user devices in communication range of base station .

SAS manager interface may include an interface which may be an implementation of a particular application programming interface API via which base station may receive communications from SAS manager . The API may in some implementations be defined by an owner and or operator of SAS manager . Additionally or alternatively messaging and or security protocols via which base station and SAS manager communicate may be defined by an owner and or operator of SAS manager . The communications may include for example access permissions associated with one or more shared frequency bands associated base station .

Load balancer interface may include an interface which may be an implementation of a particular API via which base station may send and or receive communications to and or from load balancer . The communications from load balancer may include load balancing instructions and or load balancing related information. The load balancing instructions and or information may be used by base station when performing carrier aggregation initial attachment procedures and or intra RAT handovers. Base station may also provide via load balancer interface information that may assist load balancer in performing load balancing operations. For instance base station may provide signal strength information received via unlicensed spectrum interface which load balancer may use when performing load balancing operations as described in further detail below. While shown in separate diagrams for the sake of explanation base station shown in and load balancer shown in may in some implementations be integrated as a single device. Thus in some such implementations load balancer interface may be implemented as an intra device physical bus and or logical communication pathway.

SAS manager interface may include an interface which may be an implementation of a particular API via which load balancer may receive communications from SAS manager . The API may in some implementations be defined by an owner and or operator of SAS manager . Additionally or alternatively messaging and or security protocols via which load balancer and SAS manager communicate may be defined by an owner and or operator of SAS manager . The communications may include for example access permissions associated with one or more shared frequency bands associated with one or more base stations . In some implementations load balancer may receive via SAS manager interface signal strength information e.g. RSSI SINR etc. associated with user devices in range of or connected to base station via a shared spectrum RAT. As yet another example load balancer may receive via SAS manager interface information indicating a load of a particular shared spectrum RAT at base station e.g. a quantity of user devices connected via the shared spectrum RAT an amount of available bandwidth via the shared spectrum RAT a round trip latency of traffic via the shared spectrum RAT etc. .

User device information module may receive and or store information regarding user devices connected to base station . For example user device information module may receive the information from base station and or another device that obtains and or stores user device information. In some implementations user device information module may request user device information directly from user devices . The user device information may include for example information indicating a device type e.g. whether the device is a mobile telephone a tablet device a mobile to mobile M2M device a desktop computer etc. and or a type of traffic presently being sent and or received by the device e.g. voice call traffic video call traffic file transfer traffic web browsing traffic instant messaging traffic etc. . User device information module may additionally or alternatively receive other information such as RSSI values associated with user devices . For example a particular RSSI value may indicate a received signal strength for a particular user device of a signal via a particular carrier e.g. via a carrier of an unlicensed frequency band .

Cell analytics module may receive and or store analytics information regarding one or more cells associated with base station . For example the cell analytics information may indicate how loaded the cells are and may be on a per carrier basis. For a particular cell the cell analytics information may indicate how loaded each carrier associated with the particular cell is. For instance a particular carrier may be considered as being highly loaded when a relatively large quantity of user devices are connected to base station via the carrier. As another example a measure of load may indicate how many resource blocks associated with a particular carrier have been utilized and or how many resource blocks are available. Cell analytics module may receive analytics information regarding one cell e.g. carriers associated with one cell or more than one cell e.g. carriers associated with two or more cells . Cell analytics module may receive the analytics information from base station and or from another device e.g. a device that communicates with one or more base stations in order to determine the analytics information . The cell analytics information may be real time or near real time information. For example cell analytics module may receive up to date analytics information as the information is collected or generated.

Load balancing module may perform load balancing operations based on shared access permissions e.g. received from SAS manager interface user device information e.g. received from user device information module which may include signal strength information and or other types of information and or analytics information e.g. received from cell analytics module . For example load balancing module may receive access permission information for a particular shared frequency band indicating a maximum level of load for the particular shared frequency band. Load balancing module may determine based on cell analytics information whether the particular shared frequency band is overloaded. If the particular shared frequency band is overloaded load balancing module may determine which user device s to hand over to a different frequency band and may further determine to which frequency band s user device s should be handed over. Load balancing module may in some implementations use information regarding the unlicensed spectrum e.g. signal strength information when determining a load of the unlicensed spectrum and may select the unlicensed spectrum or the shared spectrum for a particular user device based on the relative loads of the unlicensed and the shared spectrums.

Base station interface may include an interface such as an implementation of an API and or another type of interface via which load balancer may communicate with one or more base stations . For example Load balancer may receive information regarding user devices e.g. RSSI information traffic type information device type information and or carriers associated with base station e.g. cell analytics information via base station interface . Load balancer may output instructions such as handover instructions carrier aggregation instructions or the like to base station via base station interface .

As shown process may include receiving at a carrier aggregation activation request from a user device. For example base station may receive a carrier aggregation activation request from user device . Load balancer may be notified of the request via base station interface . In some implementations the request received at may be an attachment request e.g. from user device and or may be based on a handover instruction from MME .

Process may also include determining at one or more measures of load associated with an unlicensed spectrum RAT and or a shared spectrum RAT. For example as described above with respect to licensed spectrum interface and or cell analytics module load balancer may determine one or more measures of load associated with a network that corresponds to an unlicensed spectrum RAT e.g. an LTE U network associated with base station an LTE LAA network associated with base station or the like and or with a network that corresponds to a shared spectrum RAT e.g. a shared 3.5 GHz frequency band of an LTE network associated with base station .

For instance the measure s of load for a particular network that corresponds to a particular RAT may include a quantity of user devices attached via the particular network an amount of available bandwidth e.g. uplink and or downlink associated with the particular network a round trip delay e.g. latency of packets associated with the network and or other measures of load. The measure s of load may be received from for example base station SAS manager and or one or more other devices.

In some implementations the quantity of user devices attached via the network that corresponds to the unlicensed spectrum RAT may be determined based on a quantity of signal strength measurements e.g. RSSI values SINR values etc. received via the unlicensed spectrum RAT network. For example user devices may make such measurements and may report the measurements to base station or another device . Load balancer may use a quantity of these measurements at a given time or during a given time window to determine a quantity of user devices connected via the unlicensed spectrum RAT network at the given time or during the given time window. Generally the more user devices that are attached to the unlicensed spectrum RAT network the more signal strength measurements would be expected to be received.

Process may additionally include selecting at the unlicensed spectrum or the shared spectrum based on the one or more measures of load. For example as described above with respect to load balancing module load balancer may compare the measure s of load associated with the respective networks in order to determine which network is loaded. In some implementations and as described further below e.g. with respect to other techniques may be used to select a particular network.

Process may further include instructing at the user device to attach to a particular network that corresponds to the selected spectrum. For example load balancer may notify base station of the selection and base station may instruct user device to attach to the particular network. In some implementations as mentioned above the instruction to attach to the particular network may be in accordance with a carrier aggregation technique in which user device attaches to the selected network in addition to another network e.g. a network that corresponds to a licensed spectrum RAT .

Based on the determination that the unlicensed spectrum RAT network is more heavily loaded than the shared spectrum RAT network base station may be instructed at to attach to the shared spectrum RAT network. As mentioned above the selection of the unlicensed spectrum RAT network may be made in another manner. For example the shared spectrum RAT network may be selected when the load associated with the unlicensed spectrum RAT network is above a particular threshold and or when the load associated with the shared spectrum RAT network is below a particular threshold. For example the shared spectrum RAT network may be selected due to 1 the unlicensed spectrum RAT network being more loaded than the shared spectrum RAT network 2 the shared spectrum RAT network being less loaded than a particular threshold and or 3 the unlicensed spectrum RAT network being more loaded than a particular threshold.

One or more other factors may be used in the decision such as a type of Priority Access License PAL associated with base station to which user device is attached with respect to the shared spectrum RAT network. For example the shared spectrum RAT network may be associated with a variety of different tiers of priority and base stations may be associated with a PAL that indicates a particular tier for that base station and thus to user devices attached to base station . In some such implementations the selection of the shared spectrum RAT network may be further based on the tier of the PAL associated with base station . For instance if base station is associated with a relatively high tier PAL the selection of the shared spectrum RAT for user devices attached to base station may be favored whereas in instances where base station is associated with a relatively lower tier PAL the selection of the unlicensed spectrum RAT may be favored.

Referring to assume that the shared spectrum RAT network is more loaded than the unlicensed spectrum RAT network. When user device sends at a carrier aggregation activation request in this example the unlicensed spectrum RAT network may be selected and user device may be instructed at to attach via the unlicensed spectrum RAT network. As with the example in the selection may be based on a variety of factors such as which network is more loaded whether one or both of the networks are above or below respective thresholds of load a PAL associated with user device e.g. with base station to which user device is attached and or one or more other factors.

As shown process may include receiving at a carrier aggregation activation request from a user device. As similarly described above with respect to block the carrier aggregation activation request may be received by base station from user device . In some implementations base station may receive an initial attachment request and or a handover instruction from MME .

Process may also include determining at whether a network according to a shared spectrum RAT is active. For example load balancer may receive via base station interface information indicating whether base station is associated with an active network that operates at a shared spectrum RAT. In some implementations base station may not be associated with a shared spectrum RAT network and or the network may be down or otherwise unavailable for use .

If a network according to a shared spectrum RAT is not active at NO then process may include determining at whether a network according to an unlicensed spectrum RAT is active. For example load balancer may receive via base station interface information indicating whether base station is associated with an active network that operates at an unlicensed spectrum RAT.

If a network according to an unlicensed spectrum RAT is not active at NO then carrier aggregation may not be available and conventional load balancing techniques for the licensed spectrum may be used at . For example load balancer may perform or continue to perform conventional and or other types of load balancing on user device and or other user devices that are attached to the licensed spectrum RAT network. In other words since carrier aggregation would not be available in this situation the carrier aggregation activation request made by base station may be denied.

If on the other hand a network according to an unlicensed spectrum RAT is active YES then carrier aggregation may be available and conventional load balancing techniques e.g. conventional LTE U LTE LAA etc. load balancing algorithms may be used at . For example load balancer may determine that base station should attach to the unlicensed spectrum RAT network and load balancer may perform conventional and or other types of load balancing on user device and or other user devices that are attached to the unlicensed spectrum RAT network. In this scenario base station may output a message to user device indicating that the carrier aggregation activation request has been granted and user device should attach to the unlicensed spectrum RAT network.

Returning to block if a network according to a shared spectrum RAT is active at YES then process may include determining at whether a network according to a shared spectrum RAT is occupied by an incumbent. For instance assuming that user device is not itself an incumbent e.g. is not attached to a base station that has a highest tier PAL load balancer may determine whether the shared spectrum RAT network is occupied by an incumbent and or is otherwise unavailable for use. For instance load balancer may receive information from base station and or from SAS manager indicating whether the network is occupied by an incumbent and or is otherwise unavailable for use by user device .

If the shared spectrum RAT network is occupied by an incumbent and or is otherwise unavailable for use at YES then process may transition to block . If on the other hand the shared spectrum RAT network is not occupied by an incumbent at NO then process may include determining at whether the user device has a second tier PAL e.g. whether base station to which user device is attached has a second tier PAL . A second tier PAL may have a priority that is below an incumbent which may be considered a first tier PAL . Load balancer may determine the PAL of user device by querying SAS manager for information regarding the PAL of base station to which user device is attached. In some implementations SAS manager may provide an indication to load balancer indicating that the shared spectrum RAT is available for use by user device .

If the user device has a second tier PAL at YES then the user device may be instructed at to attach via the shared spectrum RAT. For example load balancer may notify base station that user device should attach to the shared spectrum RAT. In this scenario base station may output a message to user device indicating that the carrier aggregation activation request has been granted and user device should attach to the unlicensed spectrum RAT network.

If on the other hand the user device does not have a second tier PAL at NO then process may include determining at whether an unlicensed spectrum RAT network is active. If user device does not have a second tier PAL then user device may be assumed to have a third tier PAL e.g. base station to which user device is attached may have a third tier PAL . In some implementations the third tier PAL may be the lowest tier PAL. Load balancer may receive an indication from base station indicating whether base station is associated with an active and or available unlicensed spectrum RAT network e.g. an LTE U network an LTE LAA network a WiFi network etc. .

If an unlicensed spectrum RAT is not active at NO then process may transition to block i.e. instruct user device to attach via the shared spectrum RAT network . While attached to the shared spectrum RAT network user device may be subsequently kicked off off the network if the spectrum is needed for another device with a higher tier PAL e.g. a device with a second tier PAL and or an incumbent .

If on the other hand an unlicensed spectrum RAT is active at YES then process may include selecting between at the unlicensed spectrum RAT or the shared spectrum RAT based on respective measures of load e.g. in a manner similar to that described above with respect to block . Process may further include instructing at the user device to attach to a network according to the selected spectrum.

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks and or signals may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks and or signals may be performed in parallel.

The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement an embodiment is not limiting of the embodiment. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiment has been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware may be designed based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

Further while certain connections or devices are shown in practice additional fewer or different connections or devices may be used. Furthermore while various devices and networks are shown separately in practice the functionality of multiple devices may be performed by a single device or the functionality of one device may be performed by multiple devices. Further multiple ones of the illustrated networks may be included in a single network or a particular network may include multiple networks. Further while some devices are shown as communicating with a network some such devices may be incorporated in whole or in part as a part of the network.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

Some implementations described herein may be described in conjunction with thresholds. The term greater than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term greater than or equal to or similar terms . Similarly the term less than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term less than or equal to or similar terms . As used herein exceeding a threshold or similar terms may be used interchangeably with being greater than a threshold being greater than or equal to a threshold being less than a threshold being less than or equal to a threshold or other similar terms depending on the context in which the threshold is used.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. An instance of the use of the term and as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Similarly an instance of the use of the term or as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the terms one single only or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

