---

title: Sensor data gathering
abstract: A sensor data gathering environment that associates a sensor with a smart tag attached to a product. The sensor receives product identification data from the smart tag. An application, web service or a computing device associated with the sensor collects customer behavior data, such as a length of time the sensor is associated with the smart tag, the proximity of the sensor to the smart tag, the location of the sensor while in a threshold distance from the smart tag, and the like. The application, web service or the computing device associated with the sensor transmits the product identification data and the customer behavior data to a remote computing system for analysis. Based on the analysis, a message or communication is initiated to provide the customer with personalized customer service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460442&OS=09460442&RS=09460442
owner: salesforce.com, inc.
number: 09460442
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150828
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 052 887 filed on Sep. 19 2014 entitled SENSOR DATA GATHERING . This provisional patent application is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

This disclosure relates generally to the use of smart tags on products to provide personalized customer service.

The subject matter discussed in the background section should not be assumed to be prior art merely as a result of its mention in the background section. Similarly a problem mentioned in the background section or associated with the subject matter of the background section should not be assumed to have been previously recognized in the prior art.

Customer satisfaction and retention can be strongly related to a company s ability to provide a personalized shopping experience. E commerce has changed the retail industry by offering better customer service than their brick and mortar counterparts. The success of e commerce can be attributed to the personalization of the shopping web service creating a customized shopping experience. This personalization often goes far beyond a customer s current expectations creating customer loyalty.

E commerce websites often provide targeted advertisement and personalized product suggestions based on the customer s purchase history favorite products and so forth. Brick and mortar stores do not have this capability and traditionally advertise products in a non interactive manner. For example retailers will often place product marketing messages displayed through the mass media or in store aisles. Hence the target marketing segments are neither very specific nor personalized.

To compete with the growing trend of online shopping brick and mortar stores must refocus their customer service practice by adding technologies to create a totally new shopping experience. To that end many retailers have begun to use smart ID tags to provide a better shopping experience for their customers. For example retailers use smart ID tags on products such as clothing to better ensure shelves remain stocked with products of different sizes and colors and provide a concise inventory list of products stored in the backrooms to employees that are assisting customers. However this measure alone has not provided the customers with personalized customer service needed to compete with many of the online retailers.

An opportunity arises for a system to automatically provide in store customers with a more personalized in store shopping experience. For example for customers that are wandering along store aisles and selecting products interactive and powerful cross selling and upselling promotions could be presented to the customers to influence their buying decisions and maximize the customers total purchase value.

The technology disclosed relates to connecting a customer to a specific product by identifying the customer s interaction with that product. Combinations of technologies are used to identify the location of the customer and to know when the customer has manipulated a product. These technologies also assist with the purchase transaction.

The following detailed description is made with reference to the technology disclosed. Implementations are described to illustrate the technology disclosed not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of equivalent variations on the description.

Personalized customer service can be accomplished through the analysis of a customer s behavior within a store and in particular with the customer s interaction with products of interest. For example the following behavior can indicate a customer s interest in a product but a hesitation to purchase the product a customer picks up a product walks around with it for 45 seconds puts it down leaves the store returns to the store and picks the product up again. A retailer utilizing this information may be able to persuade the customer to purchase the product by providing promotional information specific advertisements or customized communication via a device carried by the customer.

The customer information data store can include a customer s biographical and behavioral data comprising the user s identity. Biographical information can include name address date of birth education past employment purchase history previous products of interest favorite products inquiries and requests for assistance. Behavioral data can include browsing history or normalized data extracted from browsing history and social media interactions such as recent business contacts affiliations mentions subscriptions and other data that indicates or suggests which products are of interest to the customer. A customer is considered to be someone contemplating the purchase of an item or who has purchased an item in the past. The customer information data store can include structured and unstructured data. In some implementations a customer information data store can include URLs and web page content such as blog posts as well as browsing history for videos music and business contacts. Data in the customer information data store can for example include a list of what products have been searched for via a customer s browser using tools such as Zendesk Zoho and ExactTarget Marketing Cloud. Trust features of the technology can be implemented to preserve the customer s confidence that personal data is being used appropriately and for limited purposes preferably with the customer s knowledge and consent. Other implementations could require the customer to take an action to opt out of giving permission to use their behavior data. Sometimes behavior watching has been implemented without notice or with notice that customers are likely to miss which is not the preferred approach.

Social media access module can include but is not limited to access to Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Chatter Yelp YouTube Pandora Pinterest etc. Modules can be communicatively coupled to the customer information data store via different network connections. For example a Facebook module can be connected through the internet while a blog can be coupled to a direct network link. In one example a social media access module can be connected to a sensor data gathering environment via a Wi Fi hotspot.

In one implementation data stores can store information from one or more tenants into tables of a common database image to form an on demand database service ODDS which can be implemented in many ways such as a multi tenant database system MTDS . A database image can include one or more database objects. In other implementations the databases can be relational database management systems RDBMSs object oriented database management systems OODBMSs distributed file systems DFS no schema database or any other data storing systems or computing devices. A tenant can be a manufacturer or supplier of a product within the sensor data gathering environment.

Customer behavior engine can provide data to customer information data store about the interests and actions of customers who opt in their permission for the use of browsing information from commercial websites and their permission to track the customer s behaviors in a store. The customer behavior engine can also store the history of a customer s position throughout a store as identified by the interactions between the various stationary sensors throughout the store and the mobile computing device and can act as the correlation processor for tracking technologies. The customer behavior engine can monitor browser cookies and supercookies that include X UIDH Verizon s Unique Identifier Header headers. This data can additionally include customer interest information gleaned from a customer s social media use. The customer behavior engine can exist on a number of different platforms including a dedicated computer a cloud computer a remote computing system or on a mobile computing device .

The product information data store can include information about each product in the store such as size color price and the smart ID of a smart tag associated with the product. It can also include information such as a product name and description and the location of the product within the store. This information can also be used by the customer behavior engine for analyzing customer behaviors.

In one implementation a mobile computing device can be connected via the network . Network s can be any one or any combination of Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Wi Fi WiMAX telephone network point to point network star network token ring network hub network peer to peer connections such as Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Z Wave ZigBee or other appropriate configuration of data networks including the Internet.

In this example each customer carries a mobile computing device that also acts as a smart tag scanner. Smart tags are small wireless devices powered or unpowered using technologies such as RFID including NFID and NFC Bluetooth including BLE and infrared. RFID is used to uniquely identify an RFID tag using radio waves and NFC is a specialized subset within the family of RFID technology. Both technologies operate at the 13.56 MHz frequency. Generally RFID tags have a read range of 20 to 30 feet although some RFID tags can be read at 600 feet. NFC has a read range of 10 cm or less. NFC is designed to be a secure form of data exchange and an NFC device is capable of being both an NFC reader and an NFC tag. Bluetooth tags such as the Tile or the Pixie can transmit between 50 and 150 feet depending on obstructions. Each smart tag can have a unique identifier written to it that can be returned to a requesting device. A smart tag can be attached to or otherwise associated with a product thereby creating a product with smart tag . In one example a combination smart tag using technologies such as NFC and Bluetooth can be associated with a product so that both technologies can be used to identify the product. These smart tags are considered to be mobile smart tags.

The mobile computing device can include an identifier such as a supercookie which can be used to identify the customer and to link the customer s behavior toward items in the store over time. Mobile computing device can include a web browser a mobile application and a customer behavior watching module that provides data about the interests of customers who opt in the opt in giving permission for the use of information such as their browsing information from commercial websites. The customer behavior watching module can collect data from objects such as browser cookies to access customer information of interest. Mobile computing device can be a personal computer laptop computer tablet computer smartphone personal digital assistant PDA digital image capture device and the like with smart tag reading capabilities.

For example a customer can use their mobile computing device comprising a portable sensor to read a smart tag assigned to a product. The customer s mobile device can also be used to collect and submit customer behavior data related to the customer s interaction with that particular product. The product information and customer behavior data obtained from the mobile computing device s association with the smart tag can be stored on a storage device connected to the mobile computing device and or transmitted to a remote computing system for storage and analysis via an application or web service. In an exemplary implementation the mobile computing device reads the smart tag assigned to a product to retrieve at least part of the product information stored in the smart tag.

A remote computing system can be used to process the information collected from devices such as an NFC sensor a Wi Fi transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver and a mobile device . A remote computing system can also host engines such as the customer behavior engine and various data stores. An NFC sensor a Wi Fi transceiver and a Bluetooth transceiver not included in the mobile computing device are considered stationary sensors and can communicate with the remote computing system either over a wire or wirelessly. An electronic store display can be used as an output device for communications for automated customer messaging from the remote computing system or other messaging system incorporated within the sensor data gathering environment . Take for example a customer with a mobile computing device who has recently purchased a brown belt. The Wi Fi transceivers and Bluetooth transceivers can identify the location of the mobile computing device as being in the proximity of shoes for sale. The remote computing system queries the customer information data store and finds that the customer has purchased the brown belt. A message can be sent to the store display near the shoe section highlighting brown shoes. The remote computing system can also send a message to the customer s mobile computing device informing the customer of a sale on brown shoes.

The NFC sensors can be distributed to a number of locations in a store. Each location can be registered with a system such as the remote computing system . One or more products with smart tags can be linked to each NFC sensor . As a customer manipulates a product with a smart tag associated with a sensor the NFC sensor registers when the product moves in and out of proximity with the short range sensor. Typically a product with a smart tag will register as having left the proximity of the NFC sensor when its signal is no longer readable by the sensor for a time of between 10 and 300 milliseconds.

The interactions between a mobile computing device the Bluetooth transceivers and the Wi Fi transceivers can be used to track the customer s location through the store. This information can be correlated with the locations of products with smart tags . In this way the sensor data gathering environment can tell when a customer approaches a product. When a sensor such as an NFC sensor registers that a product with smart tag associated with that sensor has been moved out of proximity with the sensor and a mobile computing device is near the sensor the remote computing system can associate the product with smart tag with the mobile computing device .

In another implementation the mobile computing device can include a Bluetooth enabled scanner wherein the scanner reads information from a Bluetooth smart tag such as a tag built on the Nordic nRF51822 chipset. An application or web service can prompt a customer to confirm the product with which the customer is interacting.

Although not required the sensor data gathering environment can be implemented via an application programming interface API . For example the mobile application or customer behavior watching module can use an API to interact with a remote computing system . The API which is described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules can communicate with program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules can be combined or distributed as desired in various implementations. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the sensor data gathering environment can be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that can be suitable for use with the sensor data gathering environment include but are not limited to hand held or laptop devices programmable consumer electronics and the like. The sensor data gathering environment can also be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and data can be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Customer behavior data can comprise a length of time the mobile computing device is proximal to the smart tag . It can also include time and location in a store where the customer is not near a smart tag . A timestamp can be recorded by the mobile computing device when the mobile computing device associates with the smart tag and when the mobile computing device disassociates with the smart tag. A sensor within the mobile computing device can obtain the customer s location data by taking a sequence of beacon readings transmitted by a Wi Fi transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver or both wherein each reading is processed by a signal strength indicator. The signal strength can correspond to the physical distance between the mobile computing device and the transceivers. As the signal strength increases the closer the mobile computing device is to the transceiver broadcasting that signal which can allow for trilateration. Triangulation can also be accomplished by calculating the angles between two or more transceivers and the mobile computing device . The location data can be transmitted to the remote computing system for analysis or the analysis can be done on the mobile computing device . Combining multiple methods of location identification for the mobile computing device will improve the accuracy of the associations between the mobile computing device and a smart tag . The association between the smart tag and the mobile computing device can be maintained as long as the stationary sensors find that the mobile computing device is still within a defined distance from the smart tag .

The mobile computing device can transmit the product information obtained from the smart tag and the customer behavior information to a remote computing system via a wireless network. In one implementation the mobile computing device can transmit additional information such as a customer ID customer inquiries requests for assistance or the like. Customer identification and other information can be gathered from the customer s mobile computing device or the customer information data store .

A customer may have to sign into an application or web service on a mobile device in order to use the mobile computing device within the sensor data gathering environment . The remote computing system receives stores and processes the information received from the customer information data store the product information data store the customer behavior engine and the mobile computing device . In one implementation the information transmitted to the remote computing system can be stored in a SaleForce S1 platform.

Additionally the remote computing system can access other data sources to retrieve additional product information. In one implementation the additional product information can include promotional items related to the product and related product manufacturing information. The product information customer information and any other information received or retrieved by the remote computing system can be stored in a database making analysis of the information more efficient and agile.

The product information customer information and any other information received or retrieved by the remote computing system is analyzed to provide the customer with a personalized message or communication. In one implementation the Exact Target Marketing Cloud ETMC can be used to manage the customer journey through the store and deliver optimized content to the customer. The selected message or communication to be received by the customer can be transmitted to a device integrated with the mobile computing device or transmitted to a display unit located in the store near the location of the customer. In one implementation the message based on the analyzed information is e mailed texted streamed or the like to the customer s mobile computing device . In another implementation a display located near the product or the customer can interactively show different feature options of the product relevant to the customer or provide a communication portal wherein the customer can converse in real time with a real or virtual sales representative.

Additionally an alert or message can also be sent to an employee based on the analyzed information. The alert or message can prompt the employee to personally interact with the customer. The message or alert can include but is not limited to the analyzed data the message delivered to the customer customer behavior information product information promotional items instructions on customer service procedures or the like.

A mobile computing device processor also known as a mobile processor can include one or more digital signal processors DSP microprocessor microcontroller central procession unit CPU or graphics processing unit GPU application specific integrated circuit ASIC reduced instruction set computing RISC or field programmable gate array FPGA or a combination of these processor types. Mobile processors can control the overall operations of the mobile computing device . In addition to their operating system functions they can execute software applications on the mobile computing device . The processors can interact with other components of the respective mobile computing device such as radio frequency RF transceivers device interfaces memory units etc. The communication related functions of the mobile computing device are performed by RF transceivers integrated with the mobile computing device . The RF transceivers can transmit receive RF signals through internal or external antennas.

For transmission the RF transceivers can perform data channel coding and spreading. In case of reception they can convert received RF signals into baseband signals and perform de spreading and channel decoding on the baseband signals to recover the original data. Additionally RF transceivers can search for neighboring RF transceivers and perform a discovery or pairing process. The RF transceivers in conjunction with the processors can function as a signal measurement unit for determining the strength of a received signal or received signal strength indication RSSI implement a timer for determining the duration of a connection or broadcast and place timestamps on the transferred signals for recording the date and time of transmission or reception. The input output related functions of the mobile computing device are executed by device interfaces. The device interfaces can comprise various input output sub systems such as a display keyboard microphone speaker serial port etc.

In some implementations the mobile computing device can include one or more device interfaces for providing customers access to various system components and receiving information. The memory units such as Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM flash memory and disk drive among others can provide persistent or volatile storage. In some implementations the memory units can store micro codes of a program for processing and controlling device operations temporary data generated during program executions reserved data and data transmitted and received by the mobile computing device . Short range communication systems such as Near Field Communication NFC create and maintain connections between devices that are in close physical proximity to each other. Medium range communication systems such as Bluetooth RFID Z Wave ZigBee Wi Fi etc. can establish peer to peer P2P connections between devices up to 100 meters apart. For example a connection between a mobile computing device and a Wi Fi access point can be created using medium range signals.

During Wi Fi connection mobile computing device can operate in broadcast connectionless or connected modes. Broadcasting to a MAC address is supported by IPv4 and IEEE 802.11. In IPv6 multicasting takes the place of broadcasting. Tokens can be embedded in recognized broadcast message types. One example of a broadcast protocol is Internet Control Message Protocol which is implemented in both IPv4 and IPv6. ICMP messages of various types could be used or a new type chosen from the reserved range of type codes. Another example of a broadcast protocol supported by IPv4 is the address resolution protocol ARP . Query messages can be used to scan a WLAN Wi Fi segment . From responses to a query a list of unique media access control MAC addresses of connected devices can be compiled. In IPv6 the neighborhood discovery protocol NDP specifies a variety of multicast message types that could be adapted for transmitting information. When the mobile computing device can broadcast ARP messages the AP can forward the broadcasts to other connected devices. In some implementations multiple APs covering a single location such as a large store can be relay broadcasts as a group or can be treated as a single AP. In some implementations the system or customers can set a threshold or timeout limit to help the mobile computing devices aggregate physical connection events resulting from successive reception of the same customer identity token. In aggregated physical connection events resulting from reception of multiple customer identity tokens customer identity tokens with higher counts lengthier timestamps readings or greater received signal strengths indications RSSI can indicate sustained and close proximity of two devices including timestamp durations and RSSI values. The mobile computing device can indicate the quality of a transmission.

In some implementations the mobile computing device can use Bluetooth technology which can include an identification phase and a pairing phase. During the identification phase the broadcasting device can set a frequency hopping pattern to which the mobile computing device can synchronize its signals. In the pairing phase the mobile computing device can transmit low power short range RF signals. In other implementations the mobile computing device can use NFC for ultrashort range communication and replace the identification phase of the Bluetooth technology with a simple tap between the mobile computing device and a NFC reader . In case of NFC internal antennas within the mobile computing device can function as windings of a transformer to generate high power ultra short range RF signals for broadcasting. In other implementations the mobile computing device can participate with wireless sensors through Wi Fi via an Wi Fi access point that broadcasts a Wi Fi signal usable over a medium range area. In response to a MAC address based ARP scan initiated by mobile computing device the AP can generate a list of devices connected to it along with their 15 MAC address names format Internet Protocol IP etc.

In many mobile computing devices there is a convergence of technologies such as Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Wi Fi RFID and NFC. Bluetooth BLE works in the 2.4 GHz range. Bluetooth standards of 4.0 and greater can work with beacon technologies. The standard Wi Fi frequency is 2.4 GHz and also 5 GHz with common definitions in the 802.11a b g n ac specifications. RFID uses the RF ranges such as 120 150 kHz 13.56 MHz 433 MHz 865 868 MHz and 902 928 MHz. In various ways each of these technologies can be used for communications as well as tracking Specially designed antennas can be utilized for each tracking technology to improve accuracy of the estimate of the distance between the customer and the product package.

These technologies are being used individually and in unison as real time indoor location and tracking systems as GPS does not function well indoors. Many companies including Hewlett Packard HP and Cisco have products using these technologies that perform position tracking of customers within retail settings. By combining the correlated location estimates of multiple real time location systems with NFC Near Field Communications technology attached to a product package an association can be made between the calculated location of a mobile computing device and a product with smart tag .

In one example a customer already has a retailer application installed on his mobile computing device . The customer enters the store with the mobile computing device . In this example the customer touches or makes a touching motion to the mobile computing device to a NFC sensor such as which configures the mobile computing device for communications with Bluetooth transceivers and the Wi Fi transceivers in that store. In another implementation the customer walks into the store but does not perform a proximity gesture with a NFC sensor . If properly configured either by the customer or by the retailer application the mobile computing device can have a subset of the connectivity provided by the proximity gesture.

The customer with mobile computing device travels around store. His location in the store is estimated by the sensor data gathering environment . Events such as mobile computing device associations with tagged products general traffic hotspots and coldspots can be recorded.

In this example when mobile computing device is near table the system registers that the mobile computing device is near sweaters with NFC tags . The sweaters on table can be combined into a product group. If the mobile computing device lingers ads for sweaters matching customer s preferences can be shown on a store display . If the customer touches or makes a touching gesture with a sweater tag with mobile computing device it can cause the environment to send information about the association with the sweater to mobile computing device through the Bluetooth or Wi Fi transceivers. The environment knows that the customer spent 15 minutes walking around the sweater table and this information is recorded.

If the mobile computing device is then approaches the Bluetooth beacon the system will know that the customer is moving toward the shoe department and can send relevant information to the store display and to mobile computing device . The remote computing system can also associate the mobile computing device with each of the shoe boxes that are proximal to the mobile computing device . NFC sensors under products with smart tags record each shoe box taken from the rack as the smart tags leave proximity with their NFC sensor . If the customer makes a touching gesture toward a smart tag on a shoebox the remote computing system can further validate the association of the product with mobile computing device . Information such as styles colors etc. that were of interest to the customer are recorded.

In this example the customer then takes two sweaters with smart tags and two pairs of shoes with smart tags to the checkout counter. The customer s mobile computing device is recognized by the Bluetooth transceiver as it approaches the checkout counter . The customer can then touch each product with smart tag to the NFC sensor and then touches the mobile computing device to the NFC sensor for electronic payment. A store employee could visually verify that each product was touched to the NFC sensor and that the smart tag matched the product.

When desired such as with expensive items multiple technologies such as both a NFC tag and a Bluetooth Low Energy tag can be placed on the item. In this case once the customer has completed the purchase transaction and begins to leave the store the Bluetooth transceiver can record each item passing through the door and verify that Bluetooth smart tag was included in the purchase transaction authorized by the mobile computing device . The calculation of whether the item is leaving or entering the store can be estimated by the tracking methods within the sensor data gathering environment . Other combinations of tags will be obvious to someone skilled in the art.

The product identification data and customer behavior data are analyzed by the remote computing system . This analysis can include a measure of the number of times that the customer was registered as having been in proximity of a product or product group and the total amount of time the customer spent proximal to the product or product group. In one example the customer can receive a personalized message on their mobile computing device if they visited the product or product group more than two times or if they spent more than 5 minutes total in the proximity of the product or product group. The message can include promotional information specific ads or other customized communications. The mobile computing device can also receive real time communications through an API . Other implementations can have a different list of steps and those steps can be in a different order. For example in another implementation a personal message may not be displayed . Rather a store employee might be directed by the system to approach the customer to share product information directly with the customer. In yet another implementation the customer can receive a personal message as well as being engaged by a store employee.

A customer has many entries in a customer profile data structure. This structure can include customer information such as name date of birth addresses and phone numbers. It can also include purchase history products of interest favorite products inquiries made by the customer and requests for assistance made by the customer.

A customer can also have zero or more associations with products and one or more behaviors with each association. The behaviors can include the customer s proximity to a product over time. The consolidated customer data is then made available to a customer behavior engine that can be running on a remote computing system or some other computing device.

The customer behavior engine generates consolidated data from a messaging data structure and a sales approach data structure resulting in a plan for automated customer messaging as well as messaging for store employees who can participate in the selling process. The messaging data structure contains reports of data analysis of the consolidated customer data . It also can contain lists of ads targeted toward the customer s demographic lists of promotional items personalized product suggestions available message delivery methods a history of messages already delivered to the customer and instructions on potential sales approaches that are determined to be best suited for this customer. Sales approaches can include cross selling methods upselling specific ads and suggestions for customized communications with the customer. The automated customer message from communications can be delivered to any combination of mobile computing device a store display through email or other social media or other electronic communication method. The employee messaging from communications can be used to assist an employee as they approach the customer to make a sale.

User interface input devices can include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse trackball touchpad or graphics tablet a scanner a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems and microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to input information into computer system .

User interface output devices can include a display subsystem a printer a fax machine or non visual displays such as audio output devices. The display subsystem can include a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD a projection device or some other mechanism for creating a visible image. The display subsystem can also provide a non visual display such as audio output devices. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to output information from computer system to the user or to another machine or computer system.

Storage subsystem stores programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of some or all of the modules and methods described herein. These software modules are generally executed by processor alone or in combination with other processors.

Memory used in the storage subsystem can include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. A file storage subsystem can provide persistent storage for program and data files and can include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a CD ROM drive an optical drive or removable media cartridges. The modules implementing the functionality of certain implementations can be stored by file storage subsystem in the storage subsystem or in other machines accessible by the processor.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative implementations of the bus subsystem can use multiple busses. Computer system can be of varying types including a workstation server computing cluster blade server server farm or any other data processing system or computing device. Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in is intended only as one example. Many other configurations of computer system are possible having more or fewer components than the computer system depicted in .

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer or other customer device can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard the technology disclosed pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. The technology disclosed can apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment having remote or local storage. The technology disclosed can also apply to a standalone computing device having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities.

The technology disclosed can be implemented in the context of any computer implemented system including a database system a multi tenant environment or the like. Moreover this technology can be implemented using two or more separate and distinct computer implemented systems that cooperate and communicate with one another. The disclosed technology can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process a method an apparatus a system a device a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium that stores computer readable instructions or computer program code or as a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein.

As used herein the identification of an item of information does not necessarily require the direct specification of that item of information. Information can be identified in a field by simply referring to the actual information through one or more layers of indirection or by identifying one or more items of different information which are together sufficient to determine the actual item of information. In addition the term specify is used herein to mean the same as identify. 

While the technology disclosed is disclosed by reference to the preferred implementations and examples detailed above it is to be understood that these examples are intended in an illustrative rather than in a limiting sense. It is contemplated that modifications and combinations will readily occur to those skilled in the art which modifications and combinations will be within the spirit of the technology disclosed and the scope of the following claims

In one implementation the system can sense user manipulation of a product package by a user by having at least one short range sensor that interacts with a tag on the product package and implements a recognition time of 10 to 300 ms between a connected and disconnected state of coupling with the tag wherein the short range is under 20 cm. It also has at least one wireless sensor that interacts with a device carried by the user identifies the user and generates data from which a position of the device carried by the user is estimated. A correlation processor coupled in communication with the short range sensor and the wireless sensor then implements a correlation between recognition of a product package transition to the disconnected state and estimation of the user position to be within 1 meter of the manipulated product package at a time of the transition to the disconnected state. It also reports at least the correlation of the manipulated product with the device carried by the user to a further process.

This method and other implementations of the technology disclosed can include one or more of the following features and or features described in connection with additional methods disclosed. In the interest of conciseness the combinations of features disclosed in this application are not individually enumerated and are not repeated with each base set of features. The reader will understand how features identified in this section can readily be combined with sets of base features identified as implementations in other sections of this document.

The system further includes the short range sensor using standard compliant near field communications NFC to interact with the tag on the product package. It also includes the short range sensor using standard compliant near field communications NFC to interact with the tag on the product package and to sense a transition between the connected and disconnected state of the coupling within 10 to 300 ms of a user removing the product package from a display. And it can further process selecting a message based on the correlation of the manipulated product with the user identity and transmit the selected message to the device carried by the user.

The system can also include the wireless sensor receiving from the device a signal indicating user identification to the device of the product package the wireless sensor receiving from the device a signal indicating use of to the device to optically capture at least part of the product package and the wireless sensor receiving from the device a signal indicating use of the device to wand the tag on the product package.

In one implementation the system can further include a display that projects messages to users regarding products selecting a message for the user based on the correlation of the manipulated product with the user identity and transmitting the selected message to the display.

The system also includes a plurality of RF transmitters operating between 30 kHz and 300 GHz with measureable signal strength and having known positions coupled in communication with the device and a position processor coupled to the wireless sensor that processes the signal strength data measured by or from the device and estimates a position of the device using at least the measured signal strength data.

The system further includes a plurality of RF transmitters operating between 30 kHz and 300 GHz with measureable received signal strength and having known positions coupled in communication with the device wherein the wireless sensor receives from the device at least one estimated position of the device based on using at least measured signal strength data from the plurality of RF transmitters and wherein the wireless sensor receives from the device at least one estimated position of the device.

In another implementation the system also includes a plurality of RF transmitters or emanators located among shelves holding product packages wherein the RF transmitters or emanators are detectable by the device carried by the user and signal proximity of the device to shelf locations can be calculated. The wireless sensor receives from the device at least some reports of proximity to the shelf locations.

The system further includes a plurality of RF transmitters or emanators located among shelves holding product packages wherein the RF transmitters or emanators are detectable by the device carried by the user and signal proximity of the device to product packages wherein the wireless sensor receives from the device at least some reports of proximity to the product packages. It also includes a wireless sensor that senses arrival of device carried by the user when the user enters a store and a wireless sensor that tracks movement of the device carried by the user through a store as the user interacts with product packages.

This system and other implementations of the technology disclosed can include one or more of the following features and or features described in connection with additional methods disclosed. In the interest of conciseness the combinations of features disclosed in this application are not individually enumerated and are not repeated with each base set of features. The reader will understand how features identified in this section can readily be combined with sets of base features identified as implementations impacting details of test design and implementation.

This also includes a method for sensing user manipulation of a product package by a user the method including sensing using at least one short range sensor that interacts with a tag on the product package transition between a connected and disconnected state of coupling with the tag wherein the transition sensing has a recognition time of 10 to 300 ms and wherein the short range is under 20 cm receiving at a wireless sensor from a device carried by the user location related data and user identity data and forwarding the location related and user identity data to a correlation processor correlating at the correlation processor coupled in communication with the short range sensor and the wireless sensor recognition of a product package transition to the disconnected state and estimation of a user position to be within 1 meter of the manipulated product package at a time of the transition to the disconnected state and reporting of at least the correlation of the manipulated product with the user identity to a further process.

The method further includes the short range sensor using standard compliant near field communications NFC to interact with the tag on the product package and the short range sensor using standard compliant near field communications NFC to interact with the tag on the product package and to sense the transition between the connected and disconnected state of the coupling within 10 to 300 ms of a user removing the product package from a display. It also includes a process to select a message based on the correlation of the manipulated product with the user identity and a process to transmit the selected message to the device carried by the user.

The method also includes a process for selecting a message for the user based on the correlation of the manipulated product with the user identity and the further process of transmitting the selected message to a stationary display in the store. The wireless sensor also receives from the device at least one estimated position of the device.

These methods and other implementations of the technology disclosed can include one or more of the following features and or features described in connection with additional methods disclosed. In the interest of conciseness the combinations of features disclosed in this application are not individually enumerated and are not repeated with each base set of features. The reader will understand how features identified in this section can readily be combined with sets of base features identified as implementations impacting details of test design and implementation.

There is also a tangible computer readable medium holding computer program instructions that when executed implement sensing user manipulation of a product package by a user the tangible computer readable medium implementing actions including sensing using at least one short range sensor that interacts with a tag on the product package transition between a connected and disconnected state of coupling with the tag wherein the transition sensing has a recognition time of 10 to 300 ms and wherein the short range is under 20 cm recognizing at a wireless sensor location related data and user identity data received from a device carried by the user and forwarding the location related and user identity data to a correlation processor correlating at the correlation processor coupled in communication with the short range sensor and the wireless sensor recognition of a product package transition to the disconnected state and estimation of a user position to be within 1 meter of the manipulated product package at a time of the transition to the disconnected state and reporting of at least the correlation of the manipulated product with the user identity to a further process.

This tangible computer readable medium further includes the further process selecting a message based on the correlation of the manipulated product with the user identity and the further process transmitting the selected message to the device carried by the user. It also includes the further process selecting a message for the user based on the correlation of the manipulated product with the user identity the further process transmitting the selected message to a stationary display in the store and wherein the wireless sensor receives from the device at least one estimated position of the device.

While the present technology is disclosed by reference to the preferred implementations and examples detailed above it is to be understood that these examples are intended in an illustrative rather than in a limiting sense. It is contemplated that modifications and combinations will readily occur to those skilled in the art which modifications and combinations will be within the spirit of the technology and the scope of the following claims.

Other implementations may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to perform any of the methods described above. Yet another implementation may include a system including memory and one or more processors operable to execute instructions stored in the memory to perform any of the methods described above.

