---

title: Methods, systems and apparatus for multi-purpose metering
abstract: Methods and apparatus for multi-purpose metering are disclosed. An example method includes determining whether a portable device is within a vicinity of a household monitoring system based on detecting an identifier via a first radio frequency (RF) signal, when the identifier from the first RF signal is associated with the portable device, determining whether a second acoustic signal includes the identifier associated with the portable device, deactivating a media detection circuit of the portable device when the identifier is detected via both the first RF signal and the second acoustic signal, and activating the media detection circuit of the portable device when the identifier is detected from the first RF signal and the second acoustic signal is absent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185457&OS=09185457&RS=09185457
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 09185457
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150608
---
This patent is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 280 949 filed on May 19 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 652 filed on Nov. 30 2012 and Issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 752 081 on Jun. 10 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 082 filed on Dec. 14 2007 and Issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 327 396 on Dec. 4 2012 which is a continuation of International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US2007 008171 filed on Apr. 2 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 788 397 filed on Mar. 31 2006 all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. This patent also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 870 054 filed on Dec. 14 2006 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to media monitoring and more particularly to methods systems and apparatus for multi purpose metering.

Consuming media presentations i.e. audio and or video presentations generally involves listening to audio information and or viewing video information. Media presentations may include for example radio programs music television programs movies still images etc. Media centric companies such as for example advertising companies broadcast networks etc. are often interested in the viewing and listening interests of audience to better market their products and or to improve their programming. A well known technique often used to measure the exposure and or number of audience members exposed to media involves awarding media exposure credit to a media presentation for each audience member that is exposed to the media presentation.

Media exposure credit is often measured by monitoring the media consumption of audience members using for example personal portable metering devices PPMs also known as portable metering devices tags and portable personal meters. A PPM is an electronic device that is typically worn e.g. clipped to a belt or other apparel or carried by an audience member and configured to monitor media consumption e.g. viewing and or listening activities using any of a variety of media monitoring techniques. For example one technique of monitoring media consumption involves detecting or collecting information e.g. ancillary codes signatures etc. from audio and or video signals that are emitted or presented by media presentation devices e.g. televisions stereos speakers computers video display devices video games mobile telephones etc. .

While wearing a PPM an audience member or monitored individual performs their usual daily routine which may include listening to the radio and or other sources of visual and or audio visual media and or watching television programs and or other sources of visual media. As the audience member is exposed to e.g. is in proximity to media a PPM associated with e.g. assigned to and carried by that audience member detects audio and or video information associated with the media generates monitoring data and or determines location data. In general monitoring data may include any information that is representative of or associated with and or that may be used to identify a particular media presentation e.g. a song a television program a movie a video game etc. and or to identify the source of the media presentation e.g. a television a digital video disk player a stereo system etc. . For example the monitoring data may include a signatures that are collected or generated by the PPM based on audio or visual characteristics of the media b audio codes that are broadcast simultaneously with e.g. embedded in the media c infrared IR or radio frequency RF signals emitted by a remote control device and or emitted by a transceiver configured to transmit location information d information supplied by the audience member using any of a variety of data input devices etc.

In several known systems information associated with the location of an audience member is used to determine or to collect media monitoring information. For example location information may be used to identify media e.g. billboards to which audience members were exposed and or to better understand the environments within which audience members consume different types of media information. Thus location information may be used to track and log the location of an audience member as the audience member performs a daily routine.

Location information may be collected using any of several known systems such as for example location code emitters and broadcast positioning systems. Location code emitters are typically configured to emit location codes associated with respective areas within which the location code emitters are disposed. The codes may be for example acoustic codes audio codes RF codes IR codes Bluetooth codes etc. that are detected by PPMs worn or carried by audience members. More specifically the location codes may be automatically and continuously or intermittently detected and collected by a PPM as the PPM is moved from area to area.

Broadcast positioning systems e.g. global positioning systems radio frequency positioning systems etc. are typically configured to work in combination with position monitors or PPMs that are worn or carried by audience members. The position monitors are configured to determine and or collect location information associated with the location of audience members based on information emitted by the broadcast positioning systems.

Media monitoring information and location information are often used to credit media presentations to which audience members have been exposed as having been consumed by the audience member. However credit given to media presentations based on exposure is not necessarily indicative of actual media consumption. For example an audience member may be within hearing and viewing distance of a television program but may be inattentive preoccupied or otherwise not actively consuming the content of the television program. Thus assigning consumption credit to media based on exposure alone may result in inaccurate audience measurement data.

Another drawback of the traditional operation of PPMs stems from the dependency on the audience member s ability willingness to comply with PPM wearing carrying requirements. More specifically for example the data collected by the PPM represents media exposed to the audience member provided that the PPM is sufficiently near the audience member to detect such media. As a result each audience member who agrees to be monitored is required to comply with prescribed carrying wearing requirements. Such requirements generally identify a minimum percentage of daily waking time during which the audience member is required to carry wear the PPM but may also or instead identify specific periods of time during which the PPM must be carried worn or a minimum number of PPM carrying wearing hours per day. If such requirements are not met media exposure may go undetected or media exposure may be inaccurately detected if for example the PPM detects a media presentation to which the audience member was not exposed because the audience member was not within proximity of the PPM when that particular media presentation was detected.

Compliance verification techniques are often as difficult to implement as attempting to enforce audience members to comply with appropriate operating guidelines of the PPM. An audience member is often relied on to comply with appropriate operating guidelines of PPM usage. However human factors such as forgetfulness personal preference stress etc. often affect negatively the intentions of audience members to fully comply in their usage of PPMs.

Although the following discloses example systems including among other components software executed on hardware it should be noted that such systems are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software or in any combination of hardware firmware and or software. Accordingly while the following describes example systems persons having ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the examples provided are not the only way to implement such systems.

In general the example methods and apparatus described herein may be used to analyze the movements and or behaviors of audience members in the course of their exposure to media sources or media presentations to aid in determining whether such media presentations were actually consumed by the audience members. In some example implementations the audience members may be panelist members that are statistically selected to participate in a market research study. However in other example implementations the audience members need not be panelist members. While mere proximity to media sources reflects an audience member s exposure determining whether the audience member was paying attention to consumed and or was engaged with such media sources requires more than proximity. For example knowledge of an audience member s location of 5 feet from a media source e.g. television at one moment in time indicates exposure. However such an audience member detected 5 feet from the media source for several moments in time e.g. over a span of 30 minutes indicates that the audience member may be consuming e.g. engaged with paying attention to etc. the media presentation. Accordingly location determination allows valuable audience member data to be collected so that media exposure and or consumption behavior may be determined. In addition the methods and apparatus described herein may be used to determine if audience members are complying with Multipurpose Personal Portable Meters MPPMs carrying wearing requirements or MPPM usage requirements.

The example methods and apparatus described herein may also be used to manage communication procedures among the various MPPMs carried by the audience members. Such communication procedures described in further detail below prevent and or minimize communication conflicts between MPPMs and other devices of the audience measurement system. Additionally the methods and apparatus described herein may be used to determine the location and or proximity of the various MPPMs carried by the audience members. As described in further detail below location and or proximity information may allow the MPPMs to more efficiently utilize on board systems such that battery life is maximized.

In particular the example methods and apparatus described herein may be implemented using for example MPPMs worn or carried by audience members and location information systems e.g. a global positioning system GPS RF towers transceivers for triangulation etc. and may be used to collect audience member movement information and or media exposure information and to analyze such movement and or exposure information. Additionally the movement and or exposure information may be detected relative to media sources e.g. a set top box television stereo etc. and used to determine the behavior of an audience member to determine if the audience member is sufficiently consuming media presentations. In this manner media presentations e.g. audio video still images Internet information computer information etc. may be given appropriate media consumption credit.

Additionally the example methods and apparatus described herein include a monitoring system that includes but is not limited to portable units to acquire media and or audience member information. The portable units of the monitoring system operate in conjunction with various base units that are located in various rooms of a household. Portable units may be feature rich and or scaled down tags as discussed in further detail below. Both the feature rich portable units and tags are capable of determining a distance of one or more audience members and the media delivery devices e.g. televisions home entertainment centers stereos etc. . The portable units tags and base units of the monitoring system also may operate in a mesh network to provide communicative functionality even when one of the devices is not within communicative proximity to a base unit as discussed in further detail below. The monitoring system also determines communication bandwidth capabilities of the household and may further adjust audio data processing accordingly to allow more efficient data transfers. In particular for situations in which acquired household data resolution is lower than the resolution of reference broadcast programming data the monitoring system includes various hash matching processes for broadcast programming identification.

Turning to for purposes of clarity the example methods and apparatus are described herein with respect to an example geographic area including indoor and outdoor regions that are associated with a household . However the example methods and apparatus described herein may be used in any area or environment.

Information about an audience member s behavior may be determined estimated using location information and or motion information. Location information may include for example geographic global or position coordinates that when analyzed may be used to determine the movements of a person or an audience member from one location to another. Location information may also include distances between an audience member and a media source such as for example a home entertainment center television and or a set top box STB that resides in a household . As described in greater detail below location information may be collected obtained generated etc. using any suitable location detection devices location detection systems and or location detection techniques. Specifically the location detection devices described below may be worn or otherwise carried by a person or audience member and or part of the MPPM.

Media monitoring information may include any information associated with media that is consumed e.g. viewed listened to interacted with etc. by an audience member. Media presentations may include for example television programming radio programming movies songs advertisements Internet information and or any other video information audio information still image information and computer information to which a person may be exposed via any media device e.g. television radio Internet in store display s billboard s etc. . Media monitoring information may be generated based on for example audio codes video codes audio signatures video signatures radio frequency RF codes and or any other codes signature information or identifiers that may be extracted from or otherwise associated with a media presentation to which an audience member is exposed. As described in greater detail below media monitoring information may be collected generated obtained etc. using any suitable media consumption detection device and or any suitable media consumption detection technique.

The example geographic area in which the example methods and apparatus of the present disclosure may operate includes the example household which may contain multiple rooms and or floors. The example geographic area of also includes an example MPPM worn by an audience member . Additional example MPPMs A B C and D collectively referred to as MPPMs are shown in at various locations of the example geographic area based on where the audience member is located. Such example MPPMs may operate both inside and outside the example household and employ various communication techniques and communication systems including but not limited to RF transceiver towers and satellites . The example household also includes a plurality of media delivery centers A B and C collectively referred to as media delivery centers each of which may include one or more media delivery devices such as for example a television a radio etc. as well as a media playback device such as for example a DVD player a VCR a video game console etc. Of course a media delivery center may only include a single media delivery device.

The example household may also include one or more location information systems such as for example a plurality of base units A B C. The base units A B C collectively referred to as base units may also receive the MPPMs for battery charging and or data transfer operations as discussed in further detail below. Additionally the base units may include one or more location based technologies e.g. global positioning systems radio frequency optical ultra sonic IR Bluetooth etc. some of which are described below and may be configured to work cooperatively with the MPPMs to substantially continuously generate location information associated with the location of the example MPPM D as the audience member moves among various areas within around and or outside the household . The base units are configured primarily as stationary devices disposed on or near the media delivery centers and adapted to perform one or more of a variety of well known media e.g. television radio Internet etc. metering methods. Depending on the types of metering that the base units also referred to as a set meter are adapted to perform the base units may be physically coupled to the media delivery centers or may instead be configured to capture signals emitted externally by the media delivery centers such that direct physical coupling to the media delivery centers is not required. Typically a base unit is provided for each media delivery center disposed in the household such that the base units may be adapted to capture data regarding all in home viewing by the audience members .

Information collected by the base units and or the MPPMs may be provided to a home processing system . The home processing system may be communicatively coupled to one or more docking stations not shown configured to receive the MPPMs and communicatively couple the MPPMs to the home processing system . In such an arrangement audience members may periodically e.g. nightly place the MPPMs in the docking stations to enable the home processing system or base units to obtain collected media monitoring information location information motion information and or any other information stored on the MPPMs . Such information transfer may additionally or alternatively occur between the home processing system and various MPPMs via wireless and or hardwired communications directly and or via one or more base units . Additionally the docking stations also charge a battery of each the MPPMs while the MPPMs are docked thereto. Alternatively the base units may operate as the home processing system to collect information from other base units and or MPPMs of the example household .

To transfer data from the household the home processing system or a base unit is further communicatively coupled to a central facility via a network . The network may be implemented using any suitable communication interface including for example a telephone system a cable system a satellite system a cellular communication system AC power lines a network the Internet etc. The central facility is remotely located from the household and is communicatively coupled to the household and other monitored sites e.g. other households via the network . The central facility may obtain media exposure data consumption data media monitoring data location information motion information and or any other monitoring data that is collected by various media monitoring devices such as for example the MPPMs . The central facility may also record broadcast media at a relatively high e.g. detailed data rate to assist audio signature matching e.g. audio video etc. between various household monitored data and signatures monitored by the central facility . As discussed in further detail below the central facility may record broadcast media audio along with a timestamp. Monitored data that is received by various households may also contain audio signatures with a corresponding timestamp which allow the central facility to compare the timestamps and audio signatures to determine particular broadcast media monitored by the various households.

In an example implementation the central facility includes a server i.e. a central processor system and a database . The database may be implemented using any suitable memory and or data storage apparatus and techniques. The server may be implemented using for example a processor system similar or identical to the example processor system depicted in that is configured to store information collected from the MPPMs and or base units in the database and to analyze the information. In addition the server may be configured to generate calibration information for the MPPMs based on audio information or audio samples collected during an acoustic characterization process or calibration process performed within the household .

The central facility may also include rule modules to configure monitoring equipment e.g. MPPMs base units home processing systems in conformance with regional parameters expected by the audience members. For example monitoring systems in various geographic regions may include audience members that speak different languages. As such a rule module that is employed to reflect regional preferences may propagate such preferences from the central facility to each piece of monitoring equipment e.g. MPPMs base units home processing systems etc. . Because each piece of monitoring equipment may include visual and or audio prompts to communicate to the audience member the regionally specific rule module prompts the monitoring equipment to apply the appropriate language. The rule modules may also dictate parameters such as but not limited to currency nomenclature language dialects accents and data sample rates. For example if certain geographic regions are less likely to include high speed networks and or internet services the rule module for that particular region may instruct all corresponding monitoring equipment to reduce the sample rate during data acquisition by the various metering devices e.g. MPPMs base units .

As shown in the household may also include an example compliance status device that may be configured to obtain compliance status from the MPPM of each audience member in the household and display the compliance status or provide an indication of compliance performance to the central facility . The compliance status device includes a display that may be implemented using for example a plurality of LEDs and or a display screen e.g. CRT LCD etc. . Each of the LEDs may correspond to one of the audience members. Each LED may be configured to for example glow red when the corresponding audience member is non compliant and glow green when the corresponding audience member is compliant. Each MPPM may be configured to wirelessly transmit compliance status information directly to the compliance status device and or each MPPM may be configured to transmit compliance status information to a central collection facility e.g. the central facility described above which may then communicate the compliance status information to the compliance status device . The compliance status device may also be communicatively coupled to a home processing system e.g. the home processing system and or base unit described above . The compliance status systems disclosed in U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 613 646 may also be used to determine compliance of audience members.

Although only one compliance status device is shown in a plurality of compliance status devices may be located throughout the household . For example each of the plurality of compliance status devices may be located in a respective room of the household . Each compliance status device may be configured to indicate via for example LEDs when an audience member is in the room corresponding to that compliance status device. An example interface for an example implementation of the compliance status device is illustrated in greater detail in . Additionally or alternatively the compliance status device may be a digital picture frame. Typically a digital picture frame displays a random or ordered sequence of digital photos that an audience member places on the digital picture frame memory. Additionally the digital picture frame may be communicatively connected to a network of the household e.g. wired wirelessly network hub router etc. and display digital pictures from an audience member s personal computer. Such networked digital picture frame may also be communicatively connected to the home processing system and or the base units to receive gentle reminder statements to urge or encourage compliance. For example the home processing system may send a gentle reminder command to the compliance status device that causes a message to be displayed such as Please obtain your Portable Unit. 

The home processing system and or the base units may monitor for trends exhibited by audience members carrying the MPPMs . In particular the home processing system and or the base units may log location information of the MPPMs and identify a trend that for example every workday at 6 50 AM the audience member removes the MPPM from its docking station and leaves the household . In response to this observed trend the home processing system and or base units may automatically prompt the compliance status device e.g. the digital picture frame to display a message at 6 51 AM if the MPPM is still in its docking station thereby indicating that the audience member may have forgotten it. For example the digital picture frame may display a message at 6 51 AM that reads You have forgotten your Portable Unit Please obtain it before leaving the house. 

Location information and motion information may be continuously collected in indoor environments and or outdoor environments via for example the example MPPMs that may be carried or worn by an audience member as shown in . The example MPPM discussed in further detail in may be implemented as a standalone device having a pager like design and or integrated or jointly configured with a mobile telephone e.g. a cordless telephone or a cellular type telephone .

The processor may be any processor suitable for controlling the MPPM and managing or processing monitoring data related to detected media consumption or presentation information location information and or motion information. For example the processor may be implemented using a general purpose processor a digital signal processor or any combination thereof. The processor may be configured to perform and control various operations and features of the MPPM such as for example setting the MPPM in different operating modes controlling a sampling frequency for collecting media monitoring information compressing collected tuning information location information and motion information managing communication operations with other processor systems e.g. the base units the home processing system the server of selecting location information systems e.g. the RF transceiver tower the satellite and the base units etc.

The memory may be used to store collected media monitoring information program instructions e.g. software firmware etc. program data e.g. location information motion information etc. region specific data from the rule modules and or any other data or information required to operate the MPPM . For example after acquiring location information discussed in further detail below motion information and or media monitoring information the processor may time stamp the acquired information and store the time stamped information in the memory . The memory may be implemented using any suitable volatile and or non volatile memory including a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a flash memory device a hard drive an optical storage medium etc. In addition the memory may be any removable or non removable storage medium.

The communication interface may be used to communicate information between the MPPM and other processor systems including for example the base units and or charging docking stations the home processing system and or the server of . The communication interface may be implemented using any type of suitable wired or wireless transmitter receiver or transceiver such as for example a Bluetooth transceiver an 802.11 i.e. Wi Fi transceiver a cellular communications transceiver an optical communications transceiver a network port a universal serial bus USB port etc. Communication between the MPPM and the charging docking station may occur when the MPPM is docked in the charging station for example just before the audience member goes to sleep each night. Additionally the base unit charging station and the MPPM may communicate via a wireless interface which may be particularly helpful if the audience member forgets to place the MPPM on the charging station each night to charge the battery and or transfer measurement data. Without limitation the base units may operate as docking charging stations a communication hub for the household and or a data aggregator for other devices of the household e.g. MPPMs TAGs base units docking stations etc. . Such devices may be designated as a hub by virtue of an application programming interface API executed on a processor of the base unit charging station or home processing system . As discussed in further detail below the docking stations base units are typically powered via a household electrical outlet which may provide communication to the other base units docking stations within the household via any present and or future powerline communication line protocols.

The media monitoring information sensors include an audio sensor and optical transceiver and an RF transceiver . The example MPPM via the audio sensor the optical sensor and or the RF transceiver observes the environment in which the audience member is located and monitors for media presentation and or signals associated with media presentations. When media presentations are detected the example MPPM logs or stores a representation of the media content e.g. a sample of detected portions of the content a signature a code a replica etc. in the memory and or identifies the content along with the time at which the content is detected.

The audio transducer may be for example a condenser microphone a piezoelectric microphone or any other suitable transducer capable of converting audio information into electrical information. The optical transceiver may be for example a transmitter and receiver combination including a light sensitive diode an IR sensor a complimentary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS sensor array a charge coupled diode CCD sensor array a light emitting diode LED etc. The RF transceiver may be for example a Bluetooth transceiver an 802.11 transceiver an ultrawideband RF receiver and or any other RF receiver and or transceiver. While the example MPPM of includes the audio sensor the optical transceiver and the RF transceiver the example MPPM need not include all of the sensors and and or may include other sensors. For example the audio sensor is sufficient to identify audio video or program content via program characteristics such as audio signatures or if they are present audio codes. Additionally the optical transceiver is sufficient to identify program content via program characteristics such as video signatures or if present video codes. However because video monitoring generally requires a line of sight between the MPPM and the media delivery device one particularly advantageous example includes the audio sensor and the optical transceiver to enable audio and or video monitoring e.g. code and or signature collecting .

The location and or motion sensors are configured to detect location related information and or motion related information and to generate corresponding signals that are communicated to the processor . More specifically the location and or motion sensors may include an ultrasonic transceiver a motion sensor a satellite positioning system SPS receiver an RF location interface and or a compass . Additionally the audio sensor may be configured to receive ultrasonic signals from an ultrasonic source such as an ultrasonic transmitter on a base unit other portable units and or the home processing system .

Some of the location and or motion sensors may be configured to receive location related information e.g. encoded information pluralities of fragmented information etc. and or to perform processing either alone or in cooperation with the processor to convert the received information to location information that indicates the location at which the MPPM is located. For example location information may be derived using triangulation techniques whereby the MPPM may receive RF signals from three or more RF transmitters e.g. three or more of the base units of . In this case a single RF signal from any one RF transmitter may be useless for generating location information. However the location information may be generated by triangulating or processing a combination of RF signals from a plurality of RF transmitters. Thus some of the location and or motion sensors may be configured to process received location related signals to generate location information and others of the location and or motion sensors may be configured to process the received location related signals in combination with software executed on the processor to generate location information. Additionally or alternatively the location and or motion sensors may not process data but instead may communicate any received information to the processor for processing.

The ultrasonic transceiver may be used to allow the MPPM and or base units to determine location information of the MPPM . As discussed in further detail below the ultrasonic transceiver works in combination with the RF location interface RF transceiver and or optical transceiver to determine a distance between the MPPM and a particular base unit and or home processing system . For example the MPPM B MPPM B of may transmit an ultrasonic chirp and RF signal simultaneously. Because the ultrasonic chirp propagates to the base unit at the speed of sound and the simultaneous RF chirp reaches the same base unit for all practical purposes immediately the distance between the MPPM B and the base unit may be calculated based on the time difference at which the chirps are detected as described in further detail below.

The motion sensor may be used to detect relatively small body movements of an audience member e.g. the audience member generate motion information related to the body movements and or to communicate the motion information to the processor . The motion sensor may be implemented using any suitable motion detection device such as for example a mercury switch a trembler a piezo gyroscope integrated circuit IC an accelerometer IC etc.

The SPS receiver SPSR may be implemented using for example a GPS receiver and may be configured to generate location information based on encoded GPS signals received from GPS satellites. In general the SPS receiver may be used by the MPPM to collect location information in outdoor environments.

The RF location interface may be implemented using a receiver or a transceiver and may be used to receive location related signals or information from location information systems such as for example the RF transceiver tower and or the base units . The RF location interface may also be configured to broadcast location related information such as for example time stamped MPPM identification codes. The time stamped MPPM identification codes may be received by for example three or more of the base units which may process the codes cooperatively using triangulation techniques to determine the location of the MPPM . The base units may communicate to the home processing system the received time stamped MPPM identification codes along with information relating to the time at which the codes were received by each of the base units . The home processing system may then determine the location of the MPPM based on this information.

The RF location interface may be implemented using any suitable RF communication device such as for example a cellular communication transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver an 802.11 transceiver an ultrawideband RF transceiver etc. In addition the RF location interface may be implemented using only an RF receiver or only an RF transmitter. Examples of known location based technologies that may be implemented in cooperation with the RF location interface include a Ekahau Positioning Engine by Ekahau Inc. of Saratoga Calif. and an ultrawideband positioning system by Ubisense Ltd. of Cambridge United Kingdom.

The Bluetooth transceiver whether implemented as part of the RF location interface the RF transceiver and or the communication interface may monitor the household for Bluetooth activity. For example many wireless telephones and or portable media players employ Bluetooth technology to enable wireless listening devices such as speakers headphones and or earpieces. The Bluetooth transceiver may detect when such devices are being used and thus determine whether an audience member is consuming media or whether the audience member is merely proximate to the media source. For example if the audience member has a television turned on in Room A of during a 30 minute broadcast of a prime time television show a typical audience measurement system may credit the audience member with viewing the show based on mere proximity to the television. However if the user was talking on the telephone during the duration of the television show then awarding credit to the audience member may not be appropriate. The Bluetooth transceiver within the MPPM and or within a base unit may detect such wireless phone earpiece activity and deny credit to a user for viewing the television show.

The compass may be implemented using a magnetic field sensor an electronic compass integrated circuit IC and or any other suitable electronic circuit. In general the compass may be used to generate direction information which may be useful in determining the direction in which an audience member e.g. the audience member is facing. The direction information may be used to determine if a person is facing a television to enable consumption of a television program. The direction information may also be used to determine if a person is facing for example a billboard advertisement so that when the MPPM receives an RF identification signal corresponding to the billboard advertisement and location information indicating that the audience member is in front of the billboard the direction information from the compass may be used to determine if the audience member is facing the billboard. In this manner the billboard content may be credited appropriately for being consumed by a person.

The plurality of audience alerts may be used to capture the attention of audience members e.g. the audience member of to for example provide information to audience members and or request input. Depending on a mode in which the example MPPM is operating the audience member may be prompted via one or more of the audience alerts to indicate via the input interface whether the audience member is consuming the detected media presentation or is merely in the vicinity of the detected media presentation. Additionally the audience member may be prompted to express approval or disapproval of a media presentation or may submit his or her approval or disapproval without being prompted. The entry of any input information whether positive or negative can also be used to credit a program with active consumption assuming that there is a positive correlation between opinion formulation and consumption e.g. assuming people tend to formulate opinions on information that has actually been consumed and are less likely to formulate opinions on information to which they have merely been exposed .

The MPPM may also include the input interface which may be used by an operator e.g. the audience member to input information to the MPPM . For example the input interface may include one or more buttons or a touchscreen that may be used to enter information set operational modes turn the MPPM on and off etc. In addition the input interface may be used to enter MPPM settings information audience member identification information etc.

The MPPM may further include the visual interface which may be used for example in combination with the input interface to enter and retrieve information from the MPPM . For example the visual interface may be implemented using a liquid crystal display LCD that for example displays detailed status information location information configuration information calibration information etc. In some cases the visual interface may include light emitting diodes LEDs that convey information including for example status information operational mode information etc.

The timer counter may be used to generate timer events that are communicated to the processor . Timer events may be used to for example wake up the MPPM from a shut down state powered down state a power saving mode state etc. The timer counter may be configured to generate a timing event after a particular amount of time has elapsed or at a particular time of day. The amount of time or time of day may be set by for example configuring registers in the timer counter .

The comparator may be used to compare information. For example the MPPM may use the comparator to compare a locally stored identifier associated with the MPPM with a received identifier communicated by a base unit to determine if the base unit is attempting to communicate with the MPPM . The MPPM may also use the comparator to compare any other information e.g. time information battery charge information identification information etc. . In some cases the MPPM may compare information to determine subsequent operations that the MPPM should perform. For example the MPPM may use the comparator to compare time or counter information from the timer counter to threshold values e.g. minimum threshold values zero or maximum threshold values to determine whether to perform for example wake up operations e.g. wake up subsystems of the MPPM or operations associated with placing subsystems of the MPPM in a sleep mode.

Although the example methods and apparatus are described herein relative to the example MPPM location information and motion information may also be continuously collected based on identification tags or metering tags e.g. the example identification tag of . For example an identification tag may be worn or carried by an audience member e.g. the audience member and used in combination with or instead of the example MPPM . For example the identification tag may be used to detect the location of the audience member by configuring a location information system e.g. the base units of to measure the proximity of the identification tag to the location information system the presence of the identification tag within a room of the household or the location e.g. the location coordinates of the identification tag within a room or the household . When the identification tag is used in combination with the example MPPM the MPPM may collect media monitoring information while the location information system collects location or proximity information based on the identification tag . Identification tags may be used instead of the example MPPM for battery conservation purposes. Typically identification tags contain fewer communicative features location sensors and or motion sensors. As such the identification tags may operate for much longer periods of time and rely more heavily on the base units for media logging.

As compared to the example MPPM described above in view of which includes a plurality of sensors transducers alerts and or displays the example tag of includes a fewer number of on board components and systems. is a block diagram of an example tag that may be used instead of or in addition to the example MPPM of . While the MPPM of includes many peripheral devices and features the MPPM of also consumes more power than the example tag of . The example tag illustrates a trade off between media monitoring functions performed by the base units and or home processing system and battery longevity of the portable metering device used. In general the tag of includes some of the same and or similar components as the MPPM of including a processor a memory a communication interface a battery an ultrasonic transceiver an optical transceiver a radio frequency RF transceiver a timer counter and a comparator all of which are communicatively coupled as shown. The various transceivers as understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art include both a transmitter portion and a receiver portion. For example the optical transceiver may include a photodiode light emitting diode LED for infra red IR transmission and a photodetector for IR reception.

In some implementations the MPPM may acquire media monitoring information at a data rate suitable for various aspects of the household and or geographic region. Many urban localities include an infrastructure of high speed internet access such as for example cable modems digital subscriber line DSL modems and or wireless fidelity WiFi networks. Such high speed networking opportunities reduce bandwidth concerns for transmitting and or receiving media monitoring information to from the central facility . Generally the data sample rate of streams captured by MPPMs and or base units is 0.128 seconds per sample. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other sample rates may be selected based on factors such as the memory size of the MPPM and or base unit and or a bit length of the captured media information. Naturally samples captured with a binary string length of 24 bits will demand less bandwidth than 32 bit samples taken at the same sample rate. On the other hand rural households without access to a high speed internet infrastructure may rely on telephone modems to send and receive media monitoring information to from the central facility . As such the sample rate of the MPPMs and or base units may decrease accordingly to minimize transmission bandwidth and time that the telephone modem is on line. The home processing system and or base units may detect and or otherwise be aware of communicative limitations and adjust sample rates accordingly. Similarly the rule modules may also be aware of geographical areas in which sample rates should be lower and in response to these communicative limitations automatically configure household devices to acquire media at a lower data rate.

Adjusting sample rates in an example household may be implemented at various layers of functionality. For example upon detection of a relatively low bandwidth home the MPPMs may be adjusted to reduce the rate of data capture in an effort to reduce the volume of information eventually transmitted to the central facility . Additionally or alternatively the base units chargers upon receipt of the collected data from the MPPMs may apply data reduction technique and or apply various compression algorithms to the data prior to transmission to the central facility . Application of data reduction techniques and or compression techniques within the example household further help to minimize excessive bandwidth burdens on in home networks.

While the MPPMs may be full featured devices that among other things acquire audio data compress the data encrypt the data compute the data to various signature formats and or compress the audio data into a lossless format the MPPMs may also scale back their processing capabilities based on bandwidth parameters and or battery longevity management. The MPPM may be configured as a datalogger to perform simple audio collection and compression e.g. 32 kbps MP3 ADPCM GSM etc. prior to data transfer to a base unit charger . The base unit charger may upon receipt of the data from the MPPMs complete the signature generation process thereby relieving the MPPMs of processing burdens battery consumption burdens and or bandwidth burdens of the in home network. Additionally if alternate signature algorithms are designed and uploaded to an example household from the central office such updated signature algorithms do not need to be uploaded to every device within the household . Instead a single device such as a base unit a charging station or a home processing system may store current and or updated signature algorithms. As discussed in further detail below such layered data reduction and processing distribution has at least a two fold benefit of improved MPPM battery life and reducing storage requirements of the MPPMs and or other base units charging stations in the household .

The media monitoring information collected by the MPPMs base units and or home processing systems may be processed by the central facility in real time or at a later time. As discussed earlier the central facility may monitor and record broadcast information such as codes e.g. audio codes signals e.g. audio or video signals signatures e.g. a representation of an audio video or another source signal from radio and or television programs. Because the central facility includes abundant memory resources e.g. database and high speed communication capabilities e.g. high speed internet connections T1 trunk lines etc. the data acquisition rate may be much higher than that of the MPPMs . For example the central facility typically acquires signatures samples at a rate four times faster than that of the MPPMs e.g. 1 sample every 0.032 seconds. Such audio data is stored in one more or databases and represents reference data that may be compared to media data acquired by the MPPMs so that broadcast content may be identified. Various matching algorithms discussed in further detail below seek to find the closest match between media data acquired by household devices and reference data acquired by the central facility .

Ideal conditions result in a data sample acquired by the MPPM for example exactly matching a data sample acquired by the central facility . Furthermore both samples ideally have an associated timestamp that is also identical. However sample integrity from the MPPMs is typically degraded by noise e.g. environmental conditions and or sample bit length reductions to accommodate for bandwidth limitations. Furthermore time stamps are generally offset due to the clocks within various household hardware e.g. MPPMs base units home processing system not being synchronized and or drifting. For example MPPMs that are not recharged prior to low battery voltage levels may experience an inability to maintain accurate clock time thereby resulting in time differences between the MPPM clock and the clock of the central facility . Therefore a Hamming distance i.e. the number of bits that differ between two binary strings of zero is preferred but an unlikely reality. As discussed in further detail below a hash matching algorithm allows an approximation to optimal matching algorithms while allowing an efficient tradeoff between accuracy and matching speed.

As shown in the household and the audience member wearing the MPPM are located within the example geographic area . As described below the MPPM may be used to collect location information motion information and or media monitoring information within the household outside of the household e.g. stores shopping malls restaurants etc. within structures other than the household outdoors etc.

The MPPM may be configured to substantially continuously generate obtain and or collect media monitoring information location information and or motion information. As described in greater detail below in connection with the MPPM may include one or more media detection devices used to detect presented media and to generate or collect media monitoring information or media related data based on for example audio signals video signals RF signals infrared IR signals ultrasonic US signals etc. In addition the MPPM may include one or more location or positioning devices that enable the MPPM to collect location or position information from one or more location information systems and or to send location information to one or more location information systems. The example geographic area includes one or more location information systems that may be used to communicate location information to from the MPPM .

The location information collected by the MPPMs also allow more efficient audience member data processing than may occur on a media monitoring side MMS such as at the central office . Samples e.g. video samples audio samples etc. collected by the MPPM are typically compared to reference broadcast data to identify which broadcast program e.g. television program movie song etc. was consumed. Because each geographic locality may have a diverse broadcast programming schedule the MMS may need to search a large database prior to finding a match. However as discussed above the MPPMs include an SPS receiver that determines geographic locality information so that searches by the MMS may be focused on particular geographic subsets of the database thereby improving identification efficiency and reducing search time. For example if the audience member is from Chicago and takes the MPPM on a business trip to San Diego broadcast programming consumed by the Chicago native while visiting San Diego may be properly identified as occurring in San Diego due to the SPS location information. As such the Chicago native may be credited for media consumption behavior while on the business trip.

The location information systems may be implemented using for example one or more radio frequency RF transceiver towers represented in by the RF transceiver tower and or one or more satellites represented in by a satellite . In addition the interior environment of the household or other monitored location may include one or more location information systems described below.

The MPPM may collect media monitoring information e.g. codes signatures etc. associated with any media e.g. video audio movies music still pictures advertising etc. to which the audience member is exposed. For example the MPPM may be configured to obtain audio codes generate or collect signatures etc. that may be used to identify video programs e.g. DVD movies television programming etc. audio programs e.g. CD audio radio programming etc. etc. Using one or more media detection devices described below in connection with the MPPM may collect media monitoring information associated with media presented or delivered by one or more of the media delivery centers and to which the audience member may be exposed.

Additionally the MPPM may be configured to receive audio codes and or RF codes associated with other forms of media such as for example billboards not shown or any other form of publicly viewable advertising or media. For example each billboard may include an audio broadcasting device and or an RF broadcasting device configured to emit a billboard code that uniquely identifies that billboard. If the MPPM is proximate to a billboard the MPPM may obtain the billboard code as media monitoring information thereby indicating that the audience member was exposed to the billboard. In addition the MPPM may be configured to obtain direction information via for example an electronic compass and log the direction in which the audience member was facing or traveling so that subsequent data analyses may determine if the audience member was likely facing the billboard and thus exposed to the billboard s content.

The RF transceiver tower may be used in combination with any RF communication technology such as for example a cellular or mobile communication technology e.g. GSM CDMA TDMA AMPS etc. In some example configurations the RF transceiver tower may be configured to transmit or broadcast position information and or any type of signal that may be used by the MPPM to generate location information. For example the RF transceiver tower may transmit information having geographic location information and time codes. More specifically the RF transceiver tower may be associated with a particular or unique set of geographic location coordinates i.e. geographic location information that define or indicate the location of the RF transceiver tower within a global positioning grid. The time codes may be associated with a time at which a particular signal is transmitted by the RF transceiver tower .

The geographic location information and the time codes received from a plurality of RF transceiver towers may be used by the MPPM to perform one or more triangulation processes to determine the location s of the MPPM . Triangulation processes are well known in the art and thus are not described further herein. Although the RF transceiver tower is depicted as being located in an outdoor environment the MPPM may include location technologies that communicate with the RF transceiver tower when the MPPM is located within indoor environments e.g. within the household or outdoor environments.

The satellite may also be used to communicate location information to from the MPPM . For example the satellite may be used to implement any satellite positioning system SPS such as for example the global positioning system GPS that continuously broadcasts position related information. In this manner the MPPM may receive the position related information from the satellite to determine movement information associated with the location s of the MPPM .

Unlike the feature rich MPPM of the memory of the example tag of typically stores a minimal amount of information such as for example a unique tag identification number that corresponds with one of the audience members. Similarly the communication interface may be used to communicate information to the tag such as uploading a unique identification number to the memory setting the timer counter with a date and time and or synchronizing the timer counter with other devices of the example household and or the central facility . Moreover due to the relatively reduced power demands for the tag as compared to the MPPM of the battery of and overall form factor of the tag may be much smaller.

The identification information may be printed engraved or otherwise put on a surface of the identification tag . The identification information may be the name of an audience member or an identification number corresponding to the audience member. The identification information may be the same information that is stored in the memory of the electronic SOC .

Each audience member of a household e.g. the household of may be instructed to wear or carry an identification tag that is substantially similar or identical to the identification tag . In some implementations an audience member may be instructed to clip an identification tag to each of their most frequently carried or worn belongings. For example a plurality of identical e.g. all having the same audience member identification information printed thereon and or stored in the electronic SOC identification tags may be issued to each audience member. Each audience member may then clip or store each identification tag in for example a purse a jacket shoes a belt a wallet a key chain etc. The identification tag may include a key chain hole that may be used to attach the identification tag to a set of keys. Clipping attaching or storing an identification tag in each of an audience member s most frequently used belongings ensures that the audience member will always carry or wear an identification tag. Additionally or alternatively the identification tag may be small and integrated as a pendant bracelet and or any other type of jewelry. Incorporating the tag as a piece of jewelry further promotes audience member compliance and ensures that the audience member will more frequently wear the tag .

The example MPPM may include one or more location detection devices and or motion detection devices as described above in connection with that the MPPM may use to monitor the audience member and or determine MPPM location information. The location detection devices and or motion detection devices may be configured to enable the example MPPM to collect audience member location information and or motion information in indoor environments and or outdoor environments. In this manner when an audience member moves among indoor areas and outdoor areas a substantially continuous location motion history may be tracked or logged for each audience member and subsequently analyzed to develop movement information.

The processor may be used to control and or perform various operations or features of the base unit and may be implemented using any suitable processor including any general purpose processor digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. For example the processor may be configured to receive location information motion information and or media monitoring information from the MPPM . Information collected by either the MPPM and or the base unit may be stored in the memory and communicated to the home processing system and or directly to the central facility .

The processor may also be configured to control communication processes that occur between the base unit and other processing systems e.g. the MPPM the home processing system and the server . For example the processor may provide location related information to MPPMs via the RF location transceiver . In addition the processor may control the reception of media monitoring information location information motion information etc. from the MPPM via the MPPM interface and store the information in the memory . The processor may then cause the remote transceiver to communicate the monitoring data to for example the home processing system and or the central facility . Additionally the processor and or the memory of the base unit may be programmed to carry out the process of D and or below.

The memory is substantially similar or identical to the memory and may be used to store program instructions e.g. software firmware etc. data e.g. location information motion information media monitoring information etc. and or any other data or information.

The RF location interface may be implemented using a transmitter a receiver or a transceiver and configured to transmit and or receive location related information and may be configured to communicate with the RF location interface of the MPPM . For example the RF location interface may transmit location related codes to the MPPM which may receive encoded location related codes from various base units to determine location coordinates indicative of the location of the MPPM . Additionally or alternatively the RF location interface may receive location related codes from the MPPM and as described above may work in cooperation with other base units and or the home processing system to determine the location of the MPPM . Where multiple MPPMs are present each MPPM is assigned a unique code to enable the base structures to distinguish MPPMs when detecting locations.

The RF location interface may be implemented using any suitable RF communication device such as for example a cellular communication transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver an 802.11 transceiver an ultrawideband RF transceiver etc. In addition the RF location interface may be used in combination with any of the known location based technologies described above e.g. the Ekahau Positioning Engine by Ekahau Inc. and the ultrawideband positioning system by Ubisense Ltd. . Thus the RF location interface may be configured to receive and or transmit any form of location related information including location coordinates and or any other information associated with known location based technologies.

The MPPM interface is substantially similar or identical to the communication interface of and may be configured to communicate information between the base unit and one or more MPPMs e.g. the MPPM of . The MPPM interface may be any wired or wireless transceiver such as for example a Bluetooth transceiver an 802.11 transceiver an Ethernet transceiver a universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART a cellular communication transceiver etc.

The input interface and the visual interface of the base unit may be substantially similar or identical to the input interface and the visual interface respectively of .

The remote transceiver may be used to communicate information between the base unit and for example the home processing system and or the central facility . The remote transceiver may be communicatively coupled to the network and may be implemented using any suitable wired or wireless communication transceiver including for example a telephone modem a DSL modem a cable modem a cellular communication circuit an Ethernet communication circuit an 802.11 communication circuit a powerline modem etc. The remote transceiver may be used to communicate media monitoring information e.g. audio samples codes and or signatures location information and or motion information to the home processing system and or the central facility via the network .

An example communication between the base unit and the MPPMs for determining the location of the MPPMs is shown in . The base unit is separated by a distance x from the MPPM . The base unit initiates a location determination process distance determination by emitting a chirp which includes a simultaneous radio frequency RF chirp with an ultrasonic US chirp. For ease of illustration the example of employs an RF chirp but the base unit may without limitation employ an IR chirp instead of the RF chirp. The base unit may transmit the RF chirp with the RF location interface and transmit the US chirp with the US transducer . The RF chirp transmitted by the base unit may further include an embedded base unit identifier. RF signals electromagnetic radiation propagate at 186 282 miles per second whereas the speed of sound propagates at a substantially slower speed of 0.2057 miles per second. The RF chirp propagation time is for all practical purposes instantaneous because it travels at the speed of light thus the MPPM receives the RF chirp first and initiates a timer . Accordingly the MPPM is armed and waiting to detect the US chirp via the US transducer . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that audio sampling rates of computers PDAs and other audio hardware typically exceeds 8000 samples per second. Such a sample rate yields a resolution of 0.125 milliseconds per sample which is sufficient for purposes of audience member distance determination.

Upon receipt of the US chirp by the MPPM the MPPM stops the timer and calculates the distance between the base unit and MPPM as a function of the elapsed time and the known propagation rate of sound. If necessary or if varying degrees of accuracy are desired adjustments to the calculation may be implemented to accommodate for variations in air temperature ambient pressure and or atmospheric density. Such calculations are stored in the memory of the MPPM and executed by the processor to yield the distance x. The calculated distance is then stored in the memory for later communication to the base unit . The MPPM after calculating and storing the distance between itself and the base unit retrieves the distance measurement from the memory and transmits it to the base unit as an encoded RF and or IR signal . In addition to the MPPM transmitting the distance measurement results in the encoded RF and or IR signal the MPPM may also embed an MPPM identifier so that the base unit may identify which distance value is associated with which MPPM. Additionally or alternatively the MPPM may transfer the distance measurement results to the base unit when the MPPM connects to the charging docking station e.g. at the end of the day . Such redundant information transfer may ensure that data from the MPPM is not missed by for example bursts of RF and or IR noise that may interfere with wireless data transmission. While both the MPPM and the base unit may each store the distance measurement results in their respective memories the MPPM may delete such calculation results from its memory after the MPPM docks with the charging station typically at the end of the day. Similarly the charging station base unit may delete such distance measurement results from memory after such results are transferred to the central office another base unit configured as a household hub and or the home processing system .

The base unit and MPPM may additionally or alternatively repeat the distance determination process any number of times to verify an accurate measurement. For example five iterations of the distance determination process may proceed in which the MPPM calculates an average from the five samples. The average distance value is then transmitted to the base unit via an encoded RF signal . Still further the MPPM may send the raw elapsed time data back to the base unit rather than perform such calculations on the processor . The relay of raw data back to the base unit rather than on board calculation by the MPPM may allow the MPPM to consume less power for calculations and or reduce the memory size requirements.

Because a household may include several MPPMs each with distance determination capabilities as described above the base unit may perform the distance determination process in a MPPM specific manner. For example the base unit may simultaneously send the RF and or US chirp to the MPPM with a MPPM identification code embedded in the RF and US signals . As such only the MPPM having the matching identity of the encoded RF chirp will arm to receive the US signal. Alternate MPPM s that do not have the matching identification code will ignore the RF chirp and will not initiate their timer s . Similarly the encoded US chirp is decoded by the MPPM having the matching identification code to cause the MPPM to stop its timer upon receipt. Accordingly multiple MPPMs such as MPPM A A MPPM B B and MPPM C C may independently execute a distance determination process even if such MPPMs are in RF and or US proximity to each other.

While the illustrated example of shows the base unit transmitting a simultaneous chirp including a US chirp and an RF or IR chirp the base unit may instead transmit the RF or IR chirp without a corresponding US chirp. For example the base unit may transmit the RF chirp and initiate the timer . For all practical purposes the transmitted RF chirp is immediately received by the MPPM which may then transmit a US chirp in response to receiving the RF chirp. Accordingly the base unit stops its timer in response to receiving the US chirp and calculates the distance x based on the elapsed time.

In the illustrated example of the base unit includes four ultrasonic transceivers and . Additionally the example MPPM includes four ultrasonic transceivers and . Continuing with the immediate example above in which the MPPM transmits a US chirp in response to receiving an RF chirp from the base unit the example ultrasonic transceivers may determine direction information of the MPPM . For example a US chirp transmitted by the MPPM is first received by transceivers and and at some time later the US chirp is received by transceivers and . The base unit may then identify an orientation of the MPPM based on the temporal delay of the US chirp between the transceivers 

Similarly if the base unit transmits the US chirp then the four US transceivers will receive the chirp at different times based on the orientation of the transceivers with respect to the transmitted US chirp. In the illustrated example of US transceivers and receive the US chirp transmitted by the base unit at substantially the same time. Additionally the US transceivers and will receive the US chirp at some time later than US transceivers and thereby indicating a source direction of the transmitted US chirp.

Additionally or alternatively as shown in the various base units of a household may operate on a round robin configuration to prevent communication interference between various metering devices within the household . In particular if the base units and MPPMs do not implement the encoded RF and US chirps as described above then any base unit that transmits an RF chirp may cause all of the MPPMs to start their respective timers because unlike localized US signals RF signals typically propagate through walls of a household without significant attenuation. However communication interference may be minimized or eliminated by ensuring that only one base unit emits the simultaneous RF and US chirp at a time. In particular illustrates an example round robin communication process for four example base units A B C and D collectively that may reside in a household or other monitored location e.g. a store . Each of the base units has a dedicated amount of time during which it may send and or receive data to from the various MPPMs . During the dedicated amount of time only one of the four base units may transmit via the RF location interface the ultrasonic transceiver the optical transceiver and or the audio transducer to the MPPMs . Such dedicated time slots restrict communication between base units and MPPMs but do not interrupt and or interfere with any abilities of the other base units and or other MPPMs performing metering operations such as logging audio signals from the various media delivery centers .

For example base unit A A begins a periodic loop by having exclusive permission to send and or receive communication signals to the MPPMs . During the time slot dedicated to base unit A A none of base unit B base unit C or base unit D may send the simultaneous RF and US chirp for the purpose of distance determination. Upon the expiration of the time slot for base unit A A a time slot for base unit B B permits exclusive permission to perform the aforementioned distance determination process without interference from other base units . In a similar manner the round robin loop proceeds to base unit C C and later to base unit D D before repeating the round robin loop again beginning with base unit A A. Because all of the base units are typically plugged into a powerline outlet and or wired or wirelessly networked throughout the example household such base units are communicatively coupled to one another. Marshalling of the round robin protocol may be accomplished by assigning one device such as base unit A A for example as the primary device and all remaining devices as secondary. Alternatively any other device that is communicatively connected to the base units may operate as the primary to marshal the round robin protocol including but not limited to the home processing system . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a round robin network sharing protocol may be administered in any number of ways and will not be discussed herein further.

Although the round robin communication protocol described above minimizes the occurrence of communication conflicts between MPPMs and base units an RF chirp from any base unit may still penetrate through the walls of a household and initiate the timer of a respective MPPM . US propagation beyond the walls of a room while still possible is much less likely to occur. While an encoded RF chirp as discussed above would eliminate this issue base units that do not employ RF encoding may operate in a round robin fashion that solves this issue by adding a time delay between communication time slots for each base unit . In particular each MPPM may be configured to time out after a predetermined amount of time has elapsed from the initial RF chirp if no corresponding US chirp is detected. For example if the speed of sound for a particular household is assumed to be 1086 feet per second then a MPPM time out of 0.027 seconds will allow rooms less than 30 feet to be measured. Time delays in excess of 0.027 seconds suggest that the US chirp may have propagated beyond the boundaries of the room thus may be ignored.

On the other hand if the MPPM detects the RF chirp block the MPPM initiates a timer block . Because the RF chirp propagation time is for all practical purposes instantaneous because it travels at the speed of light the MPPM receives the RF chirp first and initiates a timer before the US chirp has an opportunity to reach the MPPM . As such the MPPM is effectively armed and waiting to detect the US chirp via the US transducer block . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that while the MPPM may enter into a timing loop to wait for the US chirp to arrive such an US chirp may never arrive due to a variety of factors. For example RF signals typically propagate through walls of a household with relative ease but US signals typically require a significantly closer proximity. If the US chirp fails to arrive at the MPPM after a predetermined timeout period the MPPM may return to its previous operating state e.g. monitoring audio data . However upon receipt of the US chirp by the MPPM block the MPPM stops the timer block and calculates the distance between the base unit and MPPM as a function of the elapsed time and the known propagation rate of sound block . If necessary or if varying degrees of accuracy are desired adjustments to the calculation may be implemented to accommodate for variations in air temperature ambient pressure and or atmospheric density. Such calculations are stored in the memory of the MPPM and executed by the processor to yield the distance x. The calculated distance is then stored in the memory for later communication to the base unit .

The MPPM after calculating and storing the distance between itself and the base unit retrieves the distance measurement from the memory and transmits it to the base unit as an encoded RF or IR signal block . As discussed in further detail below the MPPM deactivates its GPS and inertia sensors block because it is within range of the household i.e. a known location that typically does not require GPS location techniques.

Location determination may also be accomplished with the example tag . An example communication between the base unit and the tag of for determining the location of the tag is shown in . As discussed above the tag of may be used in addition to or instead of the example MPPM shown in . Unlike the location determination process including an MPPM and the base unit discussed above in the example communication of the tag of initiates the location determination process distance determination by emitting an infra red IR pulse to the base unit . For ease of illustration employ IR signals but persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the tag and or base unit may additionally or alternatively employ RF signals. IR pulses may be emitted by the tag with an embedded tag identification signal on a periodic basis and consume very small amounts of power from the battery . If the base unit is within a line of sight range of the tag and receives the IR pulse with the optical receiver portion of the optical transceiver the base unit returns an acknowledgement pulse back to the tag with the transmitter portion of the optical transceiver . The acknowledgement IR pulse signal confirms to the tag that it is within range to perform location determination. Accordingly the tag transmits an IR chirp and an US chirp to the base unit at substantially the same time. IR signals much like the RF signals described above propagate at the speed of light and for practical purposes can be considered instantaneous. The US chirp on the other hand propagates at a much slower speed so that the difference of the propagation times between the IR and US chirps may be used to calculate the distance x between the tag and the base unit in the manner described above.

The example tag distance determination process shown in is particularly useful for audience measurement techniques when battery power needs to be conserved. Such power conservation may allow longer periods of time for audience measurement in between battery charging and accommodate the forgetful user that fails to place the tag on a charging dock e.g. a charging station base unit combination on a regular basis e.g. every night . The power of the tag is conserved by issuing a burst of US energy chirp only when a base unit is within range. Additionally battery power is conserved by offloading distance calculations from the tag to the base unit .

While illustrates the tag initiating an IR chirp the base unit may alternatively initiate the process of distance determination with the tag as shown in . For example if the optical transceiver includes a photodetector that consumes less energy than the periodically emitting IR LED transmitter described above in view of then the base unit may periodically transmit the IR chirp instead of the tag thereby optimizing the conservation of battery power. This also conserves power at the tag because the tag will not chirp IR pulses to see if a base unit is present but instead will wait to receive an IR pulse from a base unit before transmitting a chirp. The base unit of initiates the distance determination process by sending an IR chirp from its optical transceiver that is received by the optical receiver portion of the optical transceiver of the tag if the tag is present. In response to receiving the IR chirp the tag of the illustrated example responds by sending a simultaneous IR chirp and US chirp to the base unit . Accordingly the distance between the tag and the base unit may be calculated by the base unit in the same manner as described above thereby minimizing processing and memory requirements of the tag .

Tags much like any other device that attempts to communicate in an environment with other devices may interfere with each other when attempting to communicate. As described above communication conflicts may be minimized by using encoded tag identification signals synchronizing devices to communicate at independent times from each other and or establishing a round robin communication protocol. Such methods to prevent communication conflict may be particularly useful when battery power is not of great concern and or when such devices are communicatively connected together on a network either wired or wireless. Because the tags are not typically part of a communication network and because the tags of the illustrated example cannot afford to consume great amounts of battery power by constantly transmitting and receiving synchronization signals from a network the tags of the illustrated example employ a variable transmission rate to minimize collision during communication attempts. illustrates three example transmission rates A B and C each of which is associated with a tag. The tag associated with transmission rate A performs communication functions once every for example 2.70 seconds. Furthermore the tags associated with transmission rates B and C perform communication functions once every 2.82 and 2.94 seconds respectively.

Such non uniform transmission rates A B C permit communication attempts by the various tags at times in which no other tags are simultaneously attempting to communicate. For example at time t only the tag associated with transmission rate A is attempting to communicate. Similarly at time t only the tag associated with transmission rate B is attempting to communicate and at time t only the tag associated with transmission rate C is attempting to communicate. While overlap of communication attempts is not completely prevented by this approach as shown by example time t in which the tags associated with rates A and C overlap such times of overlap are reduced because of the dissimilar transmission rates for each of the tags. In particular while time t experienced an overlap the tag associated with rate A experiences no overlap at the next period iteration of time t.

When the transmission rate of the tag repeats its periodic interval block the tag initiates a location determination process by emitting an IR pulse to the base unit block . Each IR pulse emitted by the tag consumes a very small amount of battery power thereby allowing the tag to operate away from a charging docking station for long periods of time. The tag waits a predetermined amount of time timeout for a response from the base unit block . If the base unit is not within a line of sight range of the tag block then the tag waits for the next iteration of its transmission rate block before emitting another IR chirp in search for the base unit block . On the other hand if the base unit is within a line of sight range of the tag block and receives the IR pulse with the optical receiver portion of the optical transceiver the base unit returns an acknowledgement pulse block back to the tag with the transmitter portion of the optical transceiver . The acknowledgement IR pulse signal confirms to the tag that it is within range to perform location determination.

As a result of the base unit acknowledgement IR chirp block being received by the tag block the tag transmits a simultaneous IR chirp with an US chirp to the base unit block . IR signals much like the RF signals described above propagate at the speed of light and are for present practical purposes instantaneous. The US chirp on the other hand propagates at a much slower speed so that the difference of the propagation times between each chirp may be used to calculate the distance x between the tag and the base unit . In particular the base unit waits to receive the IR chirp from the tag block and starts its timer e.g. a timer function of the processor upon receipt of the IR chirp from the tag block . While the base unit waits for the US chirp block the timer value increases proportionally with the distance separating the base unit from the tag that emitted the US chirp . Upon receipt of the US chirp the base unit stops the timer and uses the resulting time value to calculate distance block .

In some example implementations the tag may be configured to communicate status information e.g. battery level information movement history information etc to a requesting base unit e.g. the base unit of in response to receiving a status request message from the base unit. The tag may transmit its status information to the base unit using infrared IR transmissions. Typically to transmit data via an infrared transmitter the tag requires relatively more power than required to perform other operations e.g. receive RF transmissions . Configuring the tag to communicate its status information only when it is requested to do so by the base unit enables putting most or all of the electrical subsystems of the tag in a sleep mode e.g. shutting down or disabling some or all of the electrical subsystems to consume relatively less or no electrical power to conserve the stored energy e.g. battery life in a battery of the tag . Otherwise if the tag were configured to transmit its status information unconditionally e.g. at predefined intervals the battery charge of the tag would more quickly decrease and many of the status information transmissions may be wasted if the tag were not sufficiently close to a base unit for the base unit to detect the transmissions.

In some example implementations to enable detecting status requests from base units while in a sleep mode the tag is provided with an RF transceiver configured to receive status requests from base units. During a sleep mode some or all of the electrical subsystems of the tag may be shut down. However the tag may keep the RF transceiver powered or at least partially powered e.g. the antenna interface circuitry and receiver circuitry may be powered to detect RF signals. In this manner during sleep mode the tag can receive RF signals including status requests from base units and in response communicate its status information to a requesting base unit. In some example implementations base units may be configured to include a tag ID of a particular tag from which status information is to be requested. In this manner a base unit can specify a particular tag each time the base unit requests status information. In this case when the tag receives a status request from a base unit the tag can remain in a sleep mode if the tag determines that its assigned tag ID does not match the tag ID in the received status request. If multiple tags are present in the same room or within the communication vicinity of the same base unit all of the tags need not exit sleep mode or respond each time the base unit transmits a status request.

In some example implementations the status information includes battery level information and movement history information. In other example implementations the status information may additionally or alternatively include other information such as for example media identification information corresponding to media presentations to which the tag was exposed location information room identification information etc. The battery level information can include for example status bits indicative of the amount of energy or charge remaining in the battery of the tag . The movement history information can include bits corresponding to values or data indicative of whether and when the tag was moved which may be indicative of a person s activity while wearing or carrying the tag . The tag may be configured to generate and or collect movement information in any manner described herein each time the tag is moved and to store the movement information for subsequent communication to a base unit. Additionally the tag may be configured to tag each movement information entry with a timestamp of when a corresponding movement occurred. In some example implementations the movement history information can be configured to include only movement information that was generated since a last time the tag communicated status information to the base unit or any other base unit. For example the tag may be configured to clear movement information from a buffer or memory each time it communicates status information.

Regardless of the devices used to implement the status information exchanges the status information exchanges can be implemented using substantially the same techniques described herein. For example although the status information exchanges are described as occurring between the tag and one or more of the base units in other example implementations the status information exchanges can be implemented to occur between the MPPM and one or more of the base units . Additionally or alternatively the status information exchanges can be implemented to occur between the tag and one or more people meters or between the MPPM and one or more people meters. A people meter is an electronic device that is typically disposed in the presentation area of a presentation device e.g. a television and that is proximate to one or more audience members. Some example people meters are adapted to communicate with a media meter disposed in for example a set top box that measures various signals associated with the television for a variety of purposes including but not limited to determining the operational status of the television i.e. whether the television is off or on and identifying the programming being displayed by the television. Based on any number of triggers including for example a channel change or an elapsed period of time the people meter prompts the audience member s to input information by depressing one of a set of buttons each of which is assigned to represent a different member. For example the people meter may prompt the audience member s to register i.e. log in or may prompt the audience member s to indicate that they are still present in the audience. The above example is applicable to television audience measurement and or to other metering measurement contexts e.g. radio Internet etc. 

The tag receives the status request and the tag ID block via its RF interface and in response wakes up its comparator subsystem block . For example upon receipt of the status request the RF interface can generate an interrupt or trigger signal or a receive buffer in which the RF interface stores the status request can generate an interrupt or trigger signal indicating the status request has been received. In response to the interrupt or trigger signal an interrupt handler or trigger signal handler can wake up the comparator subsystem . In an alternative example implementation a polling routine or a data receive monitor can be configured to periodically check a receive buffer for receipt of a status request message. In any case in response to a receive data interrupt a receive data trigger signal or determining that data has been received in the receive buffer the tag can wake up its comparator subsystem . The comparator subsystem determines whether the received tag ID matches the tag ID assigned to the tag block by comparing the tag ID s. For example the comparator subsystem can receive the tag ID from the RF interface of the tag retrieve the tag ID of the tag from a memory of the tag and compare the received and retrieved tag ID s to each other. If the comparator subsystem determines that the tag ID s match block the tag wakes up additional tag subsystems necessary to respond to the status request block . For example the tag can wake up an IR interface a microprocessor etc. by communicating a wake up signal e.g. an interrupt from the comparator subsystem to the subsystems to be woken up. In some example implementations the tag can wake up a battery status subsystem and or a movement status subsystem. The battery status subsystem can be configured to measure a battery charge remaining in its battery or batteries so that the tag can communicate a battery status to the base unit . The movement status subsystem can be configured to determine whether any movement history information is available for communication to the base unit .

The tag then generates status data including battery level information block . If the tag has been moved since the last time it communicated status information to a base unit block the tag adds any available movement information in the status data block . More specifically when the tag is moved the tag may generate movement information e.g. movement history information indicative of its movement and store the movement information in a memory. In some example implementations at block the tag can determine that it has moved after it communicated previous status information to a base unit if any movement information is stored in its memory and each time the tag communicates status information to a base unit the tag can clear its memory of movement history information. Alternatively or additionally when the tag generates and stores new movement information it can set a flag indicating that movement information is available for communication to a base unit and after the tag communicates status information and the movement history information to a base unit the tag can clear the flag. In this manner at block if the flag is set the tag can determine that new movement information generated after previous status information was communicated to a base unit is available. On the other hand if the flag is clear the tag can determine that no movement information has been generated after the tag communicated status information to a base unit.

After the tag adds the movement information in the status data block or if the tag determines that it has not been moved since the last time it communicated status information block the tag transmits the status data to the base unit via IR block . After the tag transmits the status data to the base unit the tag places its subsystems in sleep mode block while keeping awake or in standby mode only the subsystem s or circuitry e.g. an RF antenna interface and an RF receiver interface required to detect RF transmissions from base units. The process of then ends.

The example process of is described above as the base unit transmitting the status request via an RF signal at block and the tag transmitting the status data to the base unit via an IR signal at block . However in other example implementations the base unit can be configured to transmit the status request using any other type of transmission signal at block and the tag can be configured to transmit the status data to the base unit using any other type of transmission signal at block different from the type of transmission signal used by the base unit at block . For example in some example implementations the base unit may be configured to transmit the status request using an RF signal at block and the tag may be configured to transmit the status data using an ultrasonic signal at block .

The data from the MPPM is forwarded to a central office for out of home reporting and fixed location metering information e.g. media metering information generated by the base units associated with the MPPM is also forwarded to the central office to provide metered location e.g. in home information for analyzing. Also the in home data i.e. data collected at one or more primary monitored locations such as a panelist s home generated by the base units and the out of home data i.e. data collected outside the primary monitored location s generated by the MPPM may be processed together and or independently to provide comprehensive information regarding the metered audience exposure.

Returning to the example geographic area in which the example household and or store is located includes multiple rooms e.g. Rooms A B and C and or floors. Thus some of the example devices to meter an audience e.g. MPPMs tags base units home processing system etc. may not be within communicative range of another device. For example an audience member in proximity to the media delivery center A carrying MPPM A A of Room A is not in communicative range of any base unit . Similarly the audience member carrying a MPPM D is not within communicative range of a base unit because for example the user is gardening outside the example household . While an MPPM and or a base unit includes a memory to store audience member data the memory requirements of such device increase in size and the expense as a function of increasing time away from a docking station and or any other device e.g. base unit home processing system that may communicatively receive collected audience data. Therefore it is desireable to provide a vehicle for transmitting data from the MPPM or tag to reduce on board memory requirements.

The base unit of Room B which may operate as a metering device much like base units in other location s of the example household may be communicatively networked together via a local network. Such local communication network may further the home processing system and the charging docking stations. The local network may include wired or wireless techniques known by persons of ordinary skill in the art e.g. 802.11 wireless Bluetooth Category 5 network cable powerline communication X10 protocol cellular etc. . The local network enables data sharing and or transfer between any two elements of the network although such communication may be via an intermediate node or element.

If a given MPPM is within direct communicative range of a base unit block then data may be transferred to from the base station by using any of the communication methods as described above block . For example the MPPM may transfer data from the optical transducer and or the RF transceiver . However if the MPPM is not within direct communication range of any base unit block then the MPPM may determine whether a docking station is within communication range block . For example the audience member may have placed the MPPM on the docking station to allow it to charge during the night. Because the docking station is typically plugged into a power outlet e.g. thereby permitting powerline communication opportunities and or wired and or wirelessly connected to a home network any data that resides on the memory of the MPPM may be uploaded to the base unit via the networked docking station block 

If the MPPM is neither within communication range of a base unit block nor within communication range of a docking station block then the MPPM may determine whether it is within communication range of another MPPM block . As described above in view of the MPPM includes various sensors and transducers that may aid in location of and or communication with other devices that also employ such sensing technology. For example the MPPM may employ its RF transceiver to detect another MPPM in range as discussed above in view of . If the other MPPM is within range data stored in memory may be RF modulated and transmitted to the other MPPM to enable the other MPPM to act as a relay block . On the other hand if the MPPM fails to locate another MPPM within communicative range that MPPM may wait for another opportunity in which it may be closer to any one of a base unit docking station and or another MPPM to convey data. A system for wirelessly conveying data to a base unit using MXL is discussed in Internation Application No. PCT US04 00818 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The processor of is coupled to a chipset which includes a memory controller and an input output I O controller . As is well known a chipset typically provides I O and memory management functions as well as a plurality of general purpose and or special purpose registers timers etc. that are accessible or used by one or more processors coupled to the chipset . The memory controller performs functions that enable the processor or processors if there are multiple processors to access a system memory and a mass storage memory .

The system memory may include any desired type of volatile and or non volatile memory such as for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM flash memory read only memory ROM etc. The mass storage memory may include any desired type of mass storage device including hard disk drives optical drives tape storage devices etc.

The I O controller performs functions that enable the processor to communicate with peripheral input output I O devices and and a network interface via an I O bus . The I O devices and may be any desired type of I O device such as for example a keyboard a video display or monitor a mouse etc. The network interface is communicatively coupled to the network and may be for example an Ethernet device an asynchronous transfer mode ATM device an 802.11 device a DSL modem a cable modem a cellular modem etc. that enables the processor system to communicate with another processor system.

While the memory controller and the I O controller are depicted in as separate functional blocks within the chipset the functions performed by these blocks may be integrated within a single semiconductor circuit or may be implemented using two or more separate integrated circuits.

Initially the processor of the base unit may analyze and acquire the transmission and reception rates for data traffic to from the example household via the remote transceiver block . The acquired sample rate may be stored in the base unit memory along with an aggregate number of samples. More than one sample is particularly helpful to prevent a false understanding of data transmission capabilities for the example household . For example if the network connection for the household is typically very fast the base unit will inform and or instruct other devices e.g. MPPMs tags base units to sample measurement data at a very high rate. However if a brief period of network communication occurs e.g. a storm a power outage etc. then having an aggregate value for the transmission rate will prevent the base unit from instructing the household measurement devices to alter data rate settings in response to an intermittent glitch.

The acquired sample rate or the aggregate sample rate e.g. a running average saved in the memory is compared against a data rate threshold to determine whether the speed communication capabilities e.g. high low etc. block . If the threshold value such as a data rate of 500 kilobits per second kbps is lower than the rate measured e.g. the running average then the household has a relatively fast network connection as compared to a household using dial up modems. Accordingly the presence of such a high data rate prompts the base unit to instruct the devices to sample at a high maximum sample rate and disable data compression algorithms if any block . On the other hand if the threshold value is higher than the rate measured then the household may have a relatively slow network connection as compared to a household using cable or DSL modems. Accordingly a lower data rate may prompt the base unit to instruct the devices e.g. MPPM tags base unit to sample at a lower minimum sample rate and employ data compression algorithms block . Multiple thresholds may be used to throttle the sample rate and or the level of compression to a level consistant with the available data rate to from the monitored location .

If the MPPM is placed on the docking station block such as a docking station next to an audience member s bed then the MPPM uploads the compressed and or encrypted audio data in a manner consistent with the bandwidth capabilities of the example household block . For example if the household is determined to have a limited bandwidth capability then any data sent to the central facility is left in a compressed format and or further compressed before transmission block . As described above based on the bandwidth capability determination of the household the sample rate of audio recorded block may have been previously set to a low rate block of . Similarly the compression setting block may also be adjusted pursuant to the communicative capabilities of the example household block of .

If the MPPM is placed on the docking station block and the capabilities of the example household indicate that high speed communication options are available e.g. high speed internet via cable or DSL modem then prior to sending the metering data to the central facility the encrypted data is decrypted block . Thereafter the decrypted data is decompressed block which permits the MPPM base unit or home processing system to generate signatures and or extract codes block that may have been embedded in the acquired broadcast signal. Because the decryption block decompression block and signature collection code extraction block are performed on a device e.g. MPPM base unit home processing system at the audience member s household before sending to the central facility block the central facility is less inundated taxed with processing responsibilities upon receipt of such metering data.

As described above portable metering units such as the MPPM and or the tag consume varying amounts of battery power based on the activities they perform. For example the MPPM consumes a greater amount of battery power when for example the audio sensor the optical transducer s the RF transceiver the US transducer the motion sensor and or the SPSR are active. However all of the various sub components of the portable device are not necessary at all times of operation. As a result the various example location determination methods described above allow the portable devices to conserve on board battery power by selectively powering down sub systems based on the detected location of the portable meter.

On the other hand if the MPPM detects an RF chirp from the base unit block but fails to detect a corresponding US chirp block then the internal devices related to audio detection and or collection are turned on block . For example while the MPPM is close enough to a base unit to receive RF chirps the MPPM may also be far enough away to indicate that the user is not in the vicinity of one or more media delivery centers . Nonetheless audio detection may still be useful in the event that the user is listening to a portable radio MP3 player etc. while for example gardening outside or working in a garage workshop. Additionally because the MPPM is receiving RF chirps from the base unit it may be safely assumed that the MPPM is located near the monitored location and the internal devices related to GPS location detection and or inertial detection may no longer be needed and may then be turned off block to conserve battery power.

In the event that the MPPM detects both an RF chirp and a US chirp the MPPM may turn off both the internal devices for audio detection GPS location detection and inertial systems block . For example the base unit and MPPM may determine a distance as described above in view of B C A B C and D and then unload further data acquisition responsibilities to the base unit . Accordingly the base unit may collect all audio data from the media delivery center extract codes and or collect signatures and store the collected data codes and or signatures in the memory for later transmission to the home processing system if available and or the collected data codes and or signatures may be transmitted directly to the central facility . Battery power of the MPPM is conserved due to its reliance upon the base unit for most of the data acquisition metering functions while in proximity to the base station.

The MPPM may also conserve battery power based on a voltage measurement of the battery. is a flow diagram of an example method that may be used to conserve MPPM battery power. In particular clock speed variations have an effect on battery longevity in devices that employ processors such as the processor in the example MPPM . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any given processor has a finite amount of resources e.g. transistors wherein use of such transistors requires switching power. As the clock speed of a processor increases the amount of switching power per unit of time increases thereby increasing the power consumption and heat generation of the processor. Similarly as the clock speed decreases lower amounts of power are required per unit of time.

The MPPM of the illustrated example periodically performs a voltage measurement on the internal battery and compares the measured voltage to a voltage threshold that indicates a battery strength status. If the battery threshold voltage is lower than the measured voltage e.g. the voltage measurement is above the threshold value block then the clock speed of the MPPM processor is maintained at its present i.e. normal rate block . However if the battery measurement is measured and falls below the threshold value block then the MPPM processor clock speed is reduced to consume less power per unit of time.

Various thresholds may be established and stored in the memory of the MPPM . For example if the MPPM is using Nickel Cadmium batteries then a battery voltage threshold value may be set to accommodate for the relatively rapid discharge rate after a slight voltage decrease is measured. However if the MPPM is using a Nickel Metal Hydride battery for example then the battery voltage threshold value may be set to accommodate the more linear discharge rate exhibited by such batteries.

Initially the MPPM enables its communication interface block and broadcasts a discovery inquiry message block . For example the communication interface may broadcast a discovery message as defined in the Bluetooth standard. The MPPM then determines whether it has received a response block from a base unit e.g. one or more of the base units of . For example if the MPPM is sufficiently close to one of the base units so that the base unit can receive the discovery message the base unit is configured to respond by communicating a response message to the MPPM . If the MPPM receives a response from the base unit block the MPPM determines whether the response has a relevant ID block . In the illustrated example the MPPM determines whether the response has a relevant ID by using the comparator to compare an identifier received via the response to a locally stored identifier associated with the MPPM . For example to ignore responses received from wireless devices e.g. Bluetooth devices that are not associated with metering applications corresponding to the MPPM or a metering system that includes the MPPM and the base units the base units may be configured to insert an ID value e.g. a system ID value or a shared ID value which is shared between some or all metering devices in the household that indicates that the base units are associated with the metering applications or the metering system. Of course non relevant wireless devices such as for example BT enabled telephones or computers or MPPM s not corresponding to the same monitored environment or the same metering system as the MPPM that respond to the discovery message will not include the ID value. Thus the MPPM will ignore response messages received from such non relevant devices.

If the MPPM determines that the received message does have a relevant ID value block the MPPM creates an in home entry and stores the same in the memory block . The MPPM can include a timestamp in the in home entry to indicate that the MPPM was inside the household or other metered location at the time it created the in home entry. The in home entry indicates that the MPPM was within an area e.g. a monitored environment having a stationary metering device e.g. one of the base units therein. In some example implementations the in home entry does not necessarily mean that the MPPM is within a household. For example the in home entry may indicate that the MPPM is within any other area e.g. an office a retail establishment etc. having stationary metering devices capable of interacting with the MPPM and performing media metering audience metering and or other metering applications substantially similar or identical to the MPPM . For example the same metering entity or metering company may install various metering systems in various areas indoor or outdoor having base units substantially similar or identical to the base units and capable of communicating with the MPPM and other MPPM s each of which may be associated with a different household. Stored entries indicating an in home status can be subsequently analyzed to determine the times during which the MPPM was located within the household or within another building having base units similar to the base units .

The MPPM then disables the media detection circuitry e.g. disables one or more of the information sensors of block . In this manner the MPPM can offload all media detection and collection processes to the base unit s and in turn the MPPM can conserve its battery power by relying upon the base unit to perform data acquisition metering functions while the MPPM is within the household or other metered location . Accordingly the base unit may collect media signals from the media delivery center extract codes and or collect signatures and store the same in the memory for later transmission to the home processing system if available or transmit the collected metering information e.g. collected codes and signatures directly to the central facility . In this manner the base units are adapted to perform media exposure monitoring within a metered location e.g. in a home in a store such as a retail location in a restaurant etc. while the MPPM is adapted to perform media exposure monitoring outside the metered location e.g. outside the metered home retail location etc. . Further the MPPM is effectively disabled while within the monitored location to avoid redundant or duplicative data collection and or to conserve battery life of the MPPM . Although the above describes disabling the media monitoring operations of the MPPM to conserve battery life in alternative example implementations the MPPM may be configured not to disable its media monitoring operations when it is within the monitored location. In such example implementations when the MPPM is within the monitored location the MPPM and the base units may both monitor media exposure.

Returning to block if the MPPM does not receive a response the MPPM determines if a response period has expired block . For example when the MPPM broadcasts the discovery inquiry message at block it may set a response period in a timer e.g. the timer of that specifies the amount of time that the MPPM will wait to receive a response from a base unit. The MPPM may use the comparator to periodically poll the timer by for example comparing the value of the timer to zero to determine whether the timer has expired. Alternatively the timer may be configured to generate an interrupt when the timer expires. If the response period has not expired block the MPPM continues to check for a received response block . However when the response period expires block the MPPM creates an out of home entry and stores the same in the memory block because it is likely that the MPPM is outside of the household or other metered location when it does not receive a response. The MPPM can include a timestamp in the out of home entry to indicate that the MPPM was outside the household or other metered location at the time it created the out of home entry. Stored entries indicating an out of home status can be subsequently analyzed to determine the times during which the MPPM was located outside the household or outside another building having base units similar to the base units . The MPPM then enables its media detection circuitry e.g. enables one or more of the information sensors of block to detect media information while the MPPM is out of the household or other metered location . In this manner the MPPM can generate metering information when the MPPM is in areas not metered by the base units based on media to which the carrier of the MPPM is exposed but to which the base units are not exposed.

The MPPM then disables the communication interface block or puts the communication interface in a sleep mode or low power mode to conserve battery life. The MPPM then determines whether it should continue to monitor its location block e.g. should the MPPM continue to monitor whether it is located in or out of the household . If the MPPM determines that it should continue to monitor its location block the MPPM sets a wakeup timer e.g. the timer of block for an amount of time the expiration of which indicates that the MPPM should enable its communication interface and broadcast another discovery inquiry message.

The MPPM then collects measurement data and it also periodically determines whether the wakeup timer has expired block . For example the MPPM may periodically poll the wakeup timer at predetermined intervals and use the comparator to determine whether the wakeup timer has expired or the wakeup timer may communicate an interrupt to the processor of the MPPM to indicate that the wakeup timer has expired. The MPPM keeps the communication interface disabled or shutdown as long as the wakeup timer has not expired. However when the wakeup timer expires block control returns to block .

Returning to block if the MPPM determines that it should not continue to monitor its location the process of is ended. For example the MPPM may determine that it should not continue monitoring if it detects that it has been docked in a docking station that it has not been moved for some time that it has been turned off that it has entered a fixed metered location e.g. a household monitored by base units etc.

Some broadcast data includes an embedded code and or signal which may be detected and or collected by audience measurement devices e.g. MPPMs tags base units home processing system and transmitted to the central office for analysis sometimes the broadcast has no such codes and or signals or such signals are too distorted to be usable by the central office . As such the central office may instead attempt to identify the broadcast program by comparing collected signatures to known program signatures. For example audience measurement comparisons often create a signature of some aspect of a detected media presentation e.g. a video signature based on for example luminosity an audio signature based on for example one or more spectral characteristics of a detected audio signal etc. and transmit that to the central facility for comparison to a database of known signatures. The known signatures are correlated to program names and or other identifiers. Thus a matching signature allows identification of the media observed and or listened to by the audience member . For example the database of the central office may be populated with audio signatures of any number of movies that an audience member may rent from a video store. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a signature is typically a substantially unique representation of at least one characteristic of a monitored media signal. A sample may be a signature of the media signal. The signature may be for example a copy of the entire media signal for a period of time a copy of a portion of the media signal for a period of time or a representation of any portion and or portions of a media signal. It is common for a signature to contain less data than a time domain sample of the entire media signal while maintaining substantially unique representations of that signal. Thus in some examples the signature may be considered to be a proxy for the full time domain signal.

Of course the database may be limited and or some signatures collected by devices in the example household may be of a type that do not occur in a predictable manner. One such signature that may not be typically found in a database for comparison purposes is that of a video game. The video game audio signals do not typically follow a predictable and pre determined pattern due to audience member participation. As such audio signatures based on video game play may vary based on the actions taken by the game player. Therefore the central office may have difficulty matching the audio signatures of a video game. In such circumstances i.e. upon failing to find a match to the unknown signatures the central office may not know why the audio signal is unknown. Similarly non mainstream movie rentals and or B movies may not reside in the database to permit comparisons with collected signatures.

Because the base units are generally not physically connected to the media delivery centers via for example a direct video input port identification of presented media content is accomplished in part by capturing presented audio and or a signature based on the captured audio and then matching the signature to reference audio signatures in a reference database. As explained above various RF and or IR codes sent from remote controls and or Peoplemeter remotes are received and logged by the base unit which may allow determination of why collected MPPM audio data fails to match the reference data in the database. While the codes received from a Peoplemeter remote allow demographic information to be determined IR and or RF codes and or commands from various device manufacturers may be stored in a memory and or database e.g. within the devices of the household and or within one or more databases at the central office to be used later to match codes commands logged at the monitored location. For example IR codes detected logged by the base unit may be compared to a database of codes reference codes to determine that a Sony DVD device is being used which may explain why audio signals and or signatures captured by the base unit fail to match reference audio signals and or signatures stored at the central office . Additionally detected IR and or RF signals may be tracked to log usage activity for such devices and charts e.g. pie charts bar charts etc. and or graphs e.g. histograms may be generated to further illustrate audience member viewing behaviors. Such devices may include but are not limited to DVD players VCRs stereo systems and video game systems. Identification of device usage may also improve the efficiency of the signature matching process by preemptively stopping an attempted reference database query due to a high expectation that no match will be found. As a result processing resources of the central office may be saved for other tasks.

Even if the central office determines a match between a collected signature and a signature of the database remote control activity may be useful to determine the type of device used to present the media to an audience member. For example the audience member may choose to receive media via a television broadcast a cable provider and or a satellite provider. While all three of these example media providers may broadcast some of the same media content data associated with remote control use may allow the central office to determine the source of the media. That is whether the audience member consumed the media content via a broadcast television a cable box and or a satellite receiver.

As described above the central office may attempt to identify signature s collected at a monitored location by comparing the collected signature s a query signature with a database of reference signatures. The reference signatures may be acquired on an on going basis to capture new media that is generated by the entertainment industry e.g. new music videos movies sitcoms soap operas etc. . Such reference data may be acquired at media monitoring sites the central office or by other means and saved to the database .

Because the media monitoring sites are typically dedicated to storing very large amounts of data the databases employed are also large to permit relatively high data rates of data acquisition. For example reference signatures may be generated from reference data streams at a rate of one signature every 0.032 seconds 31.25 signatures per second . However signatures are generate at the example monitored site at a much slower rate. For instance in the illustrated example the MPPMs and base units generate one signature every 0.128 seconds 7.81 signatures per second . Each signature is a binary string of a certain bit length e.g. 24 bits 128 bits etc. .

Generally the corresponding times between the reference timestamp T and the query timestamp are not equal. In particular a timepiece for a metering device may not be synchronized with the exact time of a reference signature collection center or the metering device time may drift as a function of battery strength. For each sample in the corresponding reference and query streams an offset is calculated as T or T . For any particular query stream is assumed constant locally but generally changes due to viewed content change. Accordingly other portions of the query streams may have a different offset . Similarly the signatures located between the reference signature s and the query signature are not equal due to variations in microphone detection noise and or signal transformation. Even without such differences between the reference and query streams performing a linear search of an array or list large enough to accommodate a program e.g. a movie a television show a music video a song etc. takes a large amount of time and processor resources.

While the query stream of represents a small window of a larger acquisition of samples for the purposes of matching the query stream to the reference streams the query stream is divided into segments of short length e.g. 15 30 second segments as shown in . Segments may be chosen arbitrarily either having some overlap or no overlap . For purposes of illustration the example query stream of includes six separate signatures per segment. However in practice the number of signatures per segment is typically 400 1000.

As discussed in further detail below the offsets found in the query stream reflect where in the reference streams similar segments of audio occur. The example process of finding the closest match between the query and the reference stream in light of the time and signature variations between each includes loading reference data into a hash table matching the query data and filtering the match results to determine a set of most plausible candidate offsets that indicate the source of the query data e.g. which movie television show music video etc. .

After calculating the index location i.e. hash value with the hash function wherein the hash function uses the reference signature to calculate the index the corresponding reference timestamp T is placed in the cell associated with the calculated index. For example if the resulting index is for the third cell of the table and the third cell includes a pointer to NULL then the pointer pis assigned to the timestamp T . However if the calculated index results in the first cell of the table and the pointer is not assigned to NULL then the timestamp T is saved in the first location of a linked list that contains a NULL. The use of linked lists allows for index collision management. The hash function may not always guarantee that every input will map to a different output e.g. a different offset thus the cell pointers p point to a linked list to store the different values therein.

After all of the reference signatures and associated timestamps are added to the hash table the query signatures are matched to the reference signatures on a segment by segment basis each segment having M signatures therein . Each segment is processed into a histogram of encountered offsets. As described above the offsets are calculated as a difference between a reference timestamp and a query timestamp. Those offsets are compared to a threshold that if exceeded are retained for postprocessing described in further detail below. The raw matching results i.e. those results prior to postprocessing may include false positives that when compared to adjacent segments are eliminated from consideration.

Returning to block if the first location of the linked list includes a pointer assigned to NULL then the program advances directly to block to associate the index location with the reference signature and the reference timestamp block . In an abundance of caution the central office checks to make sure that the last location of any linked list includes a pointer assigned to NULL block before determining whether additional signatures in the stream exist block . If there are additional signatures in the stream then the next signature is accessed block before reiterating the example method and applying the hash function to the next signature block .

While the index calculated based on hashing the query signature may suggest a match with the reference signature such match may not actually be associated with the same television program movie music video song etc. For example the query signature of the breaking glass sound may have occurred on an alternate station compared to the station for which the reference signature is associated. Alternatively the query signature may be that of some other sound that has the same signature as the breaking glass sound of the reference signature. Therefore matching those two with raw matching data may not yield accurate results.

After accessing the resulting index location of the hash table block the offset between the reference timestamp and the query timestamp may be calculated block and added to the histogram block . Turning briefly to each offset calculated from the segment of signatures is added to a histogram . Along the x axis of the histogram are several offset values that result from the various calculations wherein only three are shown in for purposes of illustration. Along the y axis of the histogram is an indication of the frequency of occurrence for each of the offsets of the x axis. The example histogram of illustrates three occurrences for the offset five occurrences for the offset and two occurrences for the offset . As discussed below a threshold K is established to identify offset data that should be retained during post processing.

Returning to if additional query signatures remain in the segment block then the central office advances to the next signature of the segment block and applies the hash function block in the manner described above. On the other hand when the last signature of the segment block has been matched and the calculated offsets of the segment have all been added to the histogram any offsets that fail to meet the threshold K are discarded block . In the example of offsets for and are retained while the offsets for are discarded for failing to exceed the threshold K . If additional segments remain block then another histogram is initialized block and the example method repeats in the manner discussed above. When all segments have been matched and qualifying offsets retained block control advances to block of .

The compliance status device may also include a wireless transceiver . The wireless transceiver may be implemented using for example a Bluetooth transceiver an 802.11 transceiver and or any other suitable wireless transceiver. The compliance status device may be communicatively coupled to each MPPM of the household each base unit and the home processing unit via the wireless transceiver . Each MPPM in the household may be configured to wirelessly transmit compliance status information directly to the compliance status device and or each MPPM may be configured to transmit compliance status information to a central collection facility e.g. the central facility of . The central collection facility may then communicate the compliance status information to the compliance status device via for example the home processing system .

Although certain methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. To the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

