---

title: Method for delivering music content to a smart phone
abstract: A method of distributing media content using mobile communication devices including providing media access cards which promote selected media content to users of such devices whereby a user may access a web server associated with the media access cards and download application software enabling access to selected media content via a mobile device, the media access cards including a machine readable identification number code that identifies media content associated with the card whereby the application software facilitates reading and transmitting the code to a web server via the mobile device, receiving the identification number with the web server and using the identification number to locate a table value in a database wherein a plurality of media access cards identification numbers are associated with a media content table value, using the table value to identify media codes associated with the selected content server which transmits media to the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477954&OS=09477954&RS=09477954
owner: 1974 Productions Inc.
number: 09477954
owner_city: Keller
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150302
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 767 605 filed on Feb. 14 2013 entitled METHOD FOR DELIVERING MUSIC CONTENT TO A SMART PHONE which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 599 517 filed Feb. 16 2012 entitled METHOD FOR DELIVERING MUSIC CONTENT TO A SMART PHONE the specifications of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

The following disclosure relates to a method and system for providing a user of a mobile communications device with selected media content.

Trading cards such as baseball cards have been popular for generations. Traditionally trading cards have been used to identify sports figures baseball cards are especially well known. Other such cards have often featured cartoons comic book characters TV characters and similar well known characters or similar subject matter. As such trading cards present a potential means for performing artists typically musicians to promote their works.

Smart phones e.g. mobile communications devices built on a mobile operating operating system have become ubiquitous. Such devices include computing capability and connectivity many with high resolution touch screens and web browsers. Smart phones utilize Wi Fi and broadband carriers for high speed data access and transmission. Recently the rapid development of mobile applications application programs for smart phones and advanced application programming interfaces for running third party applications have driven the adoption and use of smart phones. Such mobile communication devices used with a form of trading cards are the subject of the present disclosure.

A method of distributing media content using mobile communication devices includes providing media access cards to users of the mobile communication devices. The cards may be sold distributed as promotional items or otherwise distributed. The cards promote selected media content such that a user may access a website associate with the media access cards with the user s mobile communication device and download application software enabling the user to access the selected media content. The card includes machine readable code corresponding to an identification number identifying media content associated with the card. The application software facilitates reading the machine readable code with the mobile user device and transmitting the code to a web server with the mobile user device. The web server uses the identification number to locate a table value in a database wherein identification numbers from a plurality of media access cards are each associated with a table value corresponding to media content associated with the access cards. The table value is then used to identify a media code associated with the selected media content in a content server. The media code may then be sent to the mobile communications device which may then transmit the media code to the content server. After receiving the media code content server transmits the selected media content to the mobile communication device.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numbers are used herein to designate like elements throughout the various views and embodiments of a method for delivering music content to a smart phone are illustrated and described and other possible embodiments are described. The figures are not necessarily drawn to scale and in some instances the drawings have been exaggerated and or simplified in places for illustrative purposes only. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the many possible applications and variations based on the following examples of possible embodiments.

In one embodiment a URL is printed or reproduced on card to enable a user to access a webpage to download application software enabling the user to access the media content being promoted. URL may be in the form of a machine readable code such as a barcode or QR code such that the URL may be scanned. Cards may be distributed in packages for sale at retail or included as a promotion for example in cereal boxes or with other goods or services typically purchased by consumers. If distributed in packages cards may be grouped by an artist a particular type of music or video or on the basis of other content related criteria. In some variations a consumer may be charged a fee for cards .

The machine readable code of cards for example a CR code may include an image or indicia positioned within or embedded in the code. The image may be used in connection with a program e.g. the application software which identifies image and or a portion of the CR code within code . As set forth in greater detail below image may serve as a means of further identifying a recording artist a provider of media content and or specific media content that may be accessed using card. As will be appreciated image or indicia serves a pointer or locator for portion of code and may be positioned at different locations on card .

Web server includes a processor and a communications interface that enables the server to communicate with user device via the Internet and telecom service provider . First web server also includes a data storage device for storing one or more relational databases or look up tables . Database includes a plurality of unique identifiers or IDs each encoded as all or a portion of code on promotional card promoting particular media content. As set forth in detail below identifiers enable mobile user device to access content providers .

A database of user information may be stored on web server . Database may include user profiles including names addresses birthdates media content preferences marital status and similar information that may be useful for marketing and demographic purposes. The ESN or MIN of the user s device may be linked in database to the profile of the user for identification purposes. A user profile may also include credit or debit card information to enable a user to pay for selected media content. Database or another database resident on or in communication with server may also include a plurality of tokens or identifiers each associated with individual copies of the application software downloaded to mobile user devices .

Each content provider includes a processor a communications interface and a data storage device . A database stored on data storage device includes a plurality of different pieces of media content such as songs and or video clips. Sponsor information may be associated with different pieces of media content such that sponsor promotional material may appear along with the sponsored media content when played or displayed with user device . In this regard web server and or content provider server may communicate with one or more sponsor or advertising entity servers in order to associate promotional materials with different pieces of media content.

After the user has downloaded application software the software is stored on device at step and the user may then use card to access selected media content as set forth below. In one embodiment a token or authentication code may be downloaded with the application software. The token or authentication code may be unique for each download of the application software. The user may be charged a fee for the application software or the application software may be provided to the user free of charge. A database may be downloaded to device with the application software.

After the user has downloaded the application software to device and acquired promotional card he or she may capture an image of card code at step from the card using camera of the user device. In different variations code may be a QR code a barcode an alphanumeric code or a similar code. Code may incorporate an image that further serves to facilitate identification of relevant parts of code . The application software may include instructions for identifying image and differentiating the image and or a portion of machine readable code from the remainder of the code. One or more features of image may be used for identifying relevant portions of code . For example in one embodiment lines or similar features of image may be used by the application software to identify certain portions of code that contain the ID code associated with particular media content.

As illustrated portion is embedded in a larger field of machine readable code along with image or indicia . Image is recognized by application software as a pointer or locator that identifies the portion of code corresponding to ID . The portion of code containing ID may then be read and decoded with application software and transmitted to web server along with the token or authentication code associated with the application software resident on user device . Alternatively if code or portion of code is not decoded by the application software an image of code or portion may be transmitted to server for example as an image file.

In the case where the application software has not been loaded onto or programmed into mobile user device and machine readable code is scanned and decoded with another program or device machine readable code may be decoded as a URL for a website promoting cards or another product or service. Similarly if image is not recognized with the application software when card is scanned machine readable code may be a URL for a website promoting cards or another product or service. Alternatively the application software may simple direct mobile user device to display a code not recognized or error message to the user.

At step the portion of card code including ID is identified and then decoded with application software at step . At step ID code is transmitted along with the token associated the application software from mobile user device to server via telecom service provider . Database is then queried at step to determine a table value . Table value may be in the form of a pointer or IP address that identifies one or more media codes associated with card as indicated by arrow . Media codes may be included in database or in a separate database on the same or a separate server . Media codes serve to media content stored on media server .

After media code has been determined at step the media code is then transmitted back to mobile user device at step . A code or address pointing to sponsor promotional material resident on the same or a different server may also be transmitted with media code to user device . Mobile device may query a database to determine an IP address or URL of a content provider associated with media code if the address of the media server is not been transmitted with the media code. Database may be resident on mobile device stored on server or stored on a second server.

Address identifies a content provider that may be accessed to provide the selected media content. After the user device is connected to content provider at step the selected media content is identified using media code and transmitted to mobile user device at step . The media content may be a music video song portion of a song a video clip trailer for a movie or similar presentation or a portion or introduction to a video game. In one embodiment the entire media content i.e. a song music video video clip etc. is transmitted to user device. In another embodiment a portion of the media content may be transmitted and presented to the user in a manner so as to enable the user to determine if he or she wishes to purchases the entire media content for example a song or songs a movie or an electronic game. In different variations mobile device also transmits a message to server indicating that the selected media content has been transmitted to the device. Sponsor promotional material may be simultaneously transmitted to mobile device from server or server depending upon where the sponsor promotional material is stored.

At step the selected media content along with sponsor promotional material is played and or displayed on mobile user device . In different variations the selected media content transmitted to mobile user device may be a music video movie trailer e.g. video clip a song or portion of a song a segment of an electronic game or similar content. illustrates a display of a mobile user device wherein media content and or advertising content is presented to the user of mobile user device . As a security measure media code or codes are deleted from mobile user device at step after transmission of the selected media content or when application software is closed on the device and the process ends at step .

At step the user determines whether he or she wishes to purchase the selected media content. If the user elects not to purchase the media content the process ends at step . If the user decides to purchase the media content mobile user device transmits a message to server indicating that the media content has been purchased. The user s account is accessed at step and the account is debited for the purchase price of the media content at step . If the user does not have an account the user may establish an account at this point. User profile information stored on server may be accessed to establish an account and or the user may enter the information required to establish an account for example user s name address birth date and a credit card or debit card number that the content provider may use to charge the purchase price of the media content provided to the user.

Alternatively the user may enter a debit or credit card number to pay for the selected content without establishing an account with the content provider. At step the media content provider may be credited by the operator of web server a fixed fee or a percentage of the purchase price of the media content purchased by the user. The media code or codes corresponding to the purchased media content are transmitted to mobile user device at step after which the purchased media content may be transmitted to the user at step as described above. Media codes or codes are then deleted from user device at step and the process ends at step .

Server and or content server may communicate with one or more sponsor or advertising entities via server . Referring now to sponsoring entities may provide promotional content that may be presented on display of user device in connection with media content played or displayed on mobile user device . Since mobile user device is provided with GPS capability the location of the device may be transmitted to web server sponsor server and or content server such that location specific advertising content may be selected for display on the user device. For example if user device is in a shopping mall advertising for shops or stores in the mall may be selected for presentation to the user of the device.

Referring specifically to a database may be utilized to determine specific promotional content to be displayed to a user. Database may include the ID or other code associated with the particular media content one or more URLs associated with IDs and with different user registrations . Database may be resident on sponsor server web server or content provider sever . For example a user may be unregistered registered as a standard user registered as a family user or registered as an adult user. Different URLs may be associated with the different categories of users and used to access advertising content determined to be appropriate for the particular category of user. For example different advertising content may be provided to a user registered as a family user versus a user registered as an adult user. Typically advertising entities pay content provider a fee for displaying or providing advertising content along with the user s selected media content. In different variations advertising or sponsoring entities may pay content provider a fee for each time that the advertising content is transmitted to a mobile user device .

Referring now to a method of providing media content to the user of a mobile device such as a cell phone or PDA is further described. The user of the device scans or photographs a card as previously described. Application software identifies image and portion of code . After application software decodes portion of code it transmits ID along with the token associated with the user device to web server where the authenticity of application software is verified using the token and a table value is determined using ID . More than one table value or code may be associated with a given ID . For example multiple pieces of media content may be associated with ID or a table value may be used to identify a sponsor or sponsor promotional material to be presented with a particular item of media content. In another variation a table value may be used to identify a particular promotion of a media item.

Table value or values are used in conjunction with database to identify media codes associated with specific media items. Server uses a table value as pointer for identifying a particular media code associated with a particular media item in database . After media code has been identified it is transmitted back to user device . Media code may be transmitted directly to user device from server or may be transmitted through web server . In an embodiment where data base is resident on web server it is returned directly to user device .

In one embodiment mobile device accesses a database resident on the device as indicated to determine an address or URL of a content server associated with ID . In different variations address of content server may be resident on web server in which case it is transmitted to user device along with media code . After identifying the address or URL the content provider associated with ID mobile device transmits a message to content provider including media code . The message transmitted to content provider may also include additional information such as the token associated with the user device codes identifying sponsor promotional material and the location of such materials on server or multiple media codes . Mobile device may simultaneously transmit a message to sponsor server identifying the media content to be played or displayed. After identifying the desired media content content server transmits the identified media content to mobile device for listening and or viewing. Sponsor promotional material may be simultaneously transmitted to mobile device for display with the selected media content. As previous noted the media content may be music video an electronic game or other content.

In one variation an artist or media provider may elect to promote their media content with special features such as a live impromptu performance video clips interviews and similar features. In these instances the artist or performer may produce such a feature and upload the feature to content server with an identifier or promotional code . Promotional code may be pushed from content server to web server and associated with ID and associated with a table value for the ID. Web server then push the promotional code along with ID to mobile user device when application software is started or initiated on the mobile device. The ID and promotional code may be stored in a database resident on mobile user device . When a card having code associated with a promotional code is scanned application software displays or otherwise informs the user of mobile user device of the special feature. The user may then be given the option of accessing and playing the special feature.

The foregoing method provides a content provider with a means of promoting and distributing media content. The content is promoted by means of cards which may be given or sold to potential consumers. Server and application software enable a consumer to utilize and select from different media content promoted with cards using a mobile communications device. The provider of cards and the operator of server may be compensated for each time a consumer accesses media content available through content provider and or each time a consumer chooses to purchase and download available media content. Content provider and the server operator may realize additional revenue from sponsors and advertisers by presenting promotional content to a user of mobile user device along with selected media content.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that method and system disclosed herein provides a means of delivering music and other media content to a smart phone or similar mobile user device. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description herein are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive manner and are not intended to be limiting to the particular forms and examples disclosed. On the contrary included are any further modifications changes rearrangements substitutions alternatives design choices and embodiments apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope hereof.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that this method for delivering music content to a smart phone provides a method of delivering music content to a smart phone provides a convenient means for users to access media content as well as providing the artists and producers a means of distributing such media content. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description herein are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive manner and are not intended to be limiting to the particular forms and examples disclosed. On the contrary included are any further modifications changes rearrangements substitutions alternatives design choices and embodiments apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope hereof as defined by the following claims. Thus it is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such further modifications changes rearrangements substitutions alternatives design choices and embodiments.

