---

title: Photovoltaic array mounting apparatus, systems, and methods
abstract: A photovoltaic array, including: (a) supports laid out on a surface in rows and columns; (b) photovoltaic modules positioned on top of the supports; and (c) fasteners connecting the photovoltaic modules to the supports, wherein the supports have an upper pedestal surface and a lower pedestal surface such that the photovoltaic modules are positioned at a non-horizontal angle when edges of the photovoltaic modules are positioned on top of the upper and lower pedestal surfaces, and wherein a portion of the fasteners rotate to lock the photovoltaic modules onto the supports.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09231517&OS=09231517&RS=09231517
owner: SolarCity Corporation
number: 09231517
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150109
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 308 954 entitled Photovoltaic Array Mounting Apparatus Systems and Methods filed Jun. 19 2014 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 137 989 entitled Photovoltaic Array Mounting Apparatus Systems and Methods filed Dec. 20 2013 which claims the benefit of the filing dates of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 841 381 entitled Photovoltaic Array Mounting Apparatus Systems and Methods filed Jun. 30 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 740 410 filed Dec. 20 2012. The foregoing applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

The present application was made pursuant to U.S. Department of Energy Grant DE EE0005439. The government may have certain rights in this invention.

Photovoltaic PV arrays are formed by mechanically linking together PV modules into an array. Most PV module mounting and grounding systems require the time consuming use of multiple small fasteners. High part count and slow installation time is a major barrier to reducing PV system costs and adoption. Some attempts have been made to reduce PV system costs and adoption. However these systems suffer from a number of drawbacks. For example known mounting and grounding devices require a special flange on the outside of the PV module frame and or require specially designed tools for installation. Other mounting and grounding systems are not compatible with different types of roofs or structures. Other mounting and grounding systems require a high part count and as a result have higher costs. Others are not compatible with grooved PV modules or PV modules comprising a substantially flat outward facing surface on the frame. And still others do not provide a reliable electrical ground bond between the support base and PV modules.

The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the figures.

The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described and illustrated in conjunction with systems apparatus tools and methods which are meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope. In various embodiments one or more of the above described problems have been reduced or eliminated while other embodiments are directed to other advantages or improvements.

One embodiment of the invention comprises an apparatus for mounting a photovoltaic PV module on a surface comprising a support with an upper surface lower surface tabs and openings and a clip with an arm and a notch where the apparatus resists wind forces and seismic forces and creates a grounding electrical bond between the PV module support and clip. One embodiment of the invention further comprises a method for installing PV modules on a surface that includes arranging supports in rows along an X axis and in columns along a Y axis on a surface such that in each row such that in each row the distance between two neighboring supports does not exceed the length of the longest side of a PV module and in each column the distance between two neighboring supports does not exceed the length of the shortest side of a PV module placing a PV module upon the supports such that each corner of the frame of the PV module rests on a support and connecting the supports to the PV module by engaging a clip to at least a portion of the frame of the PV module and to the support. One embodiment of the invention further comprises an apparatus for mounting a PV module on a surface comprising a support with an upper surface lower surface tabs and openings a clip with an arm and a notch and a bracket. One embodiment of the invention additionally comprises a method for installing a PV module on a surface that includes arranging supports in rows along a X axis and in columns along a Y axis on a surface such that in each row the distance between two neighboring supports does not exceed the length of the longest side of a PV module and in each column the distance between two neighboring supports does not exceed the length of the shortest side of a PV module placing a PV module upon the supports such that each corner of the frame of the PV module rests on a support connecting the supports to the PV module by engaging a clip to at least a portion of the frame of the PV module and to the support and securing a bracket to a support and to the surface or structure.

In addition to the exemplary aspects and embodiments described above further aspects and embodiments will become apparent by reference to the figures and by study of the following detailed descriptions.

Adjacent refers to being positioned next to or adjoining or neighboring or having a common vertex or common side. Thus adjacent PV panels would include PV panels that have one side close to from a few inches apart to abutting and facing one side of another PV panel. Sometimes but not always the corners of adjacent panels align so four adjacent panels would have one corner each that nearly or actually touch the other three corners.

Adjustably connected refers to an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like that loosely slidable or rigidly links interlocks joins unites or fastens two or more things together in a manner that can be changed so as to match or fit.

Attach or attachment refers to one or more items mechanisms objects things structures or the like which are joined fastened secured affixed or connected to another item or the like in a permanent removable secured or non permanent manner.

Axis of rotation refers to a center around which something rotates sometimes considered a straight line through all fixed points of a rotating rigid body around which all other points of the body move in a circular manner.

Beneath refers to extending or being situated directly or substantially underneath typically with close proximity or contact.

Between refers to being situated located or otherwise oriented at in or across the space separating two objects or regions.

Connect or connecting refers to loosely slidably or rigidly bringing together or into contact with or joining or fastening to form a link or association between two or more items mechanisms objects things structures or the like.

Connector refers to an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like that loosely slidable or rigidly links interlocks joins unites or fastens two or more things together. May also include a device an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like for keeping two parts of an electric or electronic circuit in contact.

Coplanar refers to the circumstance where two or more objects are situated located or otherwise substantially oriented in the same plane.

Couple refers to loosely slidably or rigidly joining linking interlocking connecting or mating two or more objects or items mechanisms objects things structures or the like together.

Coupling refers to an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like that loosely slidably or rigidly joins links mates interlocks or connects two things together.

Double male connector refers to a connector see above having two male or insertable members usually used for connecting two female or receiving parts or coupling members together.

Disengage refers to detaching freeing loosening extricating separating or releasing from something that holds fast connects couples or entangles. See Engagement below.

Enable refers to facilitating or making possible able feasible practical operational or easy or to cause to operate.

End refers to a final part termination extent or extremity of an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature or the like that has a length.

Engage refers to interlocking or meshing or more items mechanisms objects things structures or the like. See Disengage above.

Frame refers to an essentially rigid structure that surrounds or encloses a periphery of an item object mechanism apparatus combination feature or the like.

Freely refers to being without or exempt from substantial restriction or interference by a given condition or circumstance. May also refer to being unobstructed unconstrained unrestricted or not being subject to external restraint.

Gap refers to a break void opening cleft breach aperture separation or space as well as an interruption of continuity between two objects or within an object.

Groove refers to a long narrow cut rut indentation channel furrow gutter slot or depression often used to guide motion or receive a corresponding ridge or tongue.

Height adjustable refers to change or adapt to bring items objects mechanisms apparatus combinations features components or the like into a proper desired or preferred relationship of a distance or elevation above a recognized level such as the ground or a support surface.

Insertable refers to an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like which is capable of being put in entered into set within introduced inset inserted placed fit or thrust into another an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like.

Integral with refers to being essential or necessary for completeness constituent completing containing entire or forming a unit. May also refer to consisting or composed of parts that together constitute a whole.

Laminate or PV laminate refers to a photovoltaic device having an interconnected assembly of solar cells also known as photovoltaic cells which is frequently but not always laminated with glass and or other materials.

Length refers to a measurement or extent of an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like from end to end usually along the greater or longer of the two or three dimensions of the body in distinction from breadth or width.

Located refers to where an object or a series of objects is physically situated with respect to one or more other objects.

Orthogonally refers to relating to or composed of right angles perpendicular or having perpendicular slopes or tangents at a point of intersection.

Perimeter refers to an essentially continuous line forming the boundary periphery or circuit of a closed geometric figure the outer limits of an area.

Photovoltaic module sometimes referred to as a PV module solar panel solar module or photovoltaic panel refers to a packaged interconnected assembly of solar cells also known as photovoltaic cells frequently but not always laminated with glass and other materials and sometimes surrounded by a frame. A plurality of PV modules are commonly used to form a larger photovoltaic system referred to as a PV array see below to provide electricity for commercial industrial and residential applications.

Pivotally refers to or relates to an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like serving as a pivot or the central point pin shaft or contact on which another object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like turns swings rotates or oscillates.

Positionable refers to an object item mechanism apparatus combination feature link or the like which is capable of being positioned placed or arranged in a particular place or way.

Preload refers to the force that must be overcome to separate a joint once force is applied to attach a coupling to the joint. The applied force deforms the coupling and or one or more of the components of the joint and becomes the force that must be overcome to separate the joint.

PV laminate refers to a photovoltaic device having an interconnected assembly of solar cells also known as photovoltaic cells which is frequently but not always laminated with glass and or other materials. A PV laminate with an integral frame which may support the PV laminate is sometimes referred to as a PV module.

PV module refers to a photovoltaic module sometimes referred to as a solar panel or photovoltaic panel is a packaged interconnected assembly of solar cells also known as photovoltaic cells frequently but not always laminated with glass and other materials and sometimes surrounded by a frame. A plurality of PV modules are commonly used to form a larger photovoltaic system referred to as a PV array see below to provide electricity for commercial industrial and residential applications.

PV array refers to a plurality of photovoltaic modules connected together often in a pattern of rows and columns with module sides placed close to or touching other modules.

Rail refers to a relatively straight usually essentially evenly shaped along its length rod beam girder profile or structural member or the like or plurality of such of essentially rigid material used as a fastener support barrier or structural or mechanical member.

Rail member refers to a structural entity element or unit or part of such entity element or unit that acts as or embodies a rail.

Removable refers to one or more items mechanisms objects things structures or the like which are capable of being removed detached dismounted from or taken away from another item or the like or combination.

Rectilinear refers to one or more items mechanisms objects things structures or the like which are essentially bounded by characterized by or forming straight and substantially parallel lines.

Rigidly couples refers to joining linking connecting or mating two or more objects or items mechanisms objects things components structures or the like together in a non flexible manner that is difficult to bend or be forced out of shape.

Roof refers to a structure or protective covering that covers or forms the upper covering or top of a building. The upper surface of a roof is often used as a support surface for mounting connecting or otherwise attaching a PV module or a PV array.

Rotatably refers to one or more items mechanisms objects things structures or the like which are capable of being rotated revolved or turned around or about an axis or center.

Skirt refers to an edging molding or covering that may be fixed to the edge of a PV module to conceal or block the bottom area under a PV array when the PV array is mounted to a support surface.

Span refers to an extent or measure of space between or the distance between two points or extremities.

Support or supporting refers to one or more items mechanisms objects things structures or the like which are capable of bearing weight or other force often to keep the item or the like from falling sinking slipping or otherwise moving out of a position.

Support structure refers to a structure such as a roof table or the ground which may provide a base for securing PV modules to form a PV array.

Threaded refers to one or more items mechanisms objects things structures or the like which have embody or include an essentially helical or spiral ridge or rib as on a screw nut or bolt.

Various locations refers to places positions or sites that are different from one another more than one individual or separate.

Vertical height adjustment refers to change or adapt to bring items mechanisms objects things components structures or the like or components into a proper desired or preferred relationship of a distance or elevation above a recognized level such as the ground or a support surface.

Width refers to the state quality or fact of being wide or a measurement or extent of something from side to side in distinction from breadth or length.

With additional reference to and as will be described in more detail below support is shown comprising an upper pedestal or support portion such as upper pedestal for supporting an edge or corner of PV module that may typically though not necessarily reside at a higher location along the z axis than another lower edge or corner and a lower pedestal or support portion such as lower pedestal for supporting an edge or corner of PV module that may typically though not necessarily reside at a lower location along the z axis than another higher edge or corner. As shown in upper pedestals support upper edges of PV modules respectively and lower pedestals not all visible in this view support lower edges of PV modules respectively. As shown supports may support PV module along edges near the corners though in other embodiments supports may support edges not near or even far from the corners. In still other embodiments supports may support the side edges 

Support may further comprise various other features such as upper positioning tabs and lower positioning tabs for aiding in the positioning of PV module such as when it is being placed onto support openings for receiving lever clips see below deflector tabs for holding a portion of a wind deflector see further description below holes for receiving wire ties or the like wire cutouts for receiving wires or wire management devices such as wire clips bushings connectors restraints etc. or the like drop in positioning tabs for guiding modules from a vertical position down into the final mounted position as shown slip sheet slots for retaining an edge of a slip sheet and ballast pan tabs and not shown . Supports may be placed directly on roof as shown. High side horizontal flange and low side horizontal flange may provide surfaces approximately parallel with roof for easy placement thereon. A surface area of flanges and may be large enough to sufficiently distribute a load of system over roof . In some embodiments the surface area of flanges and may be lower than shown here and in others it may be higher depending on the amount of point load distribution that may be required. In other embodiments supports comprise rubber pads and or slip sheets underneath flanges and for example to prevent damage to a surface of roof .

Support may be manufactured by cutting and or stamping sheet metal molding plastic casting metal or via other suitable manufacturing methods. As shown in support may comprise a profile that is approximately N shaped or generally an upside down U shape with an upper vertical portion and a lower vertical portion that cant slightly inward thereby enabling supports to be easily stackable for shipping. Other embodiments that contemplate other profiles for supports such as U shaped H shaped etc. and the like are still in the spirit and scope of the present disclosure and are explicitly contemplated and disclosed herein so long as such supports provide pedestals for PV modules and can connect PV modules to supports such as via lever clips as will be discussed below.

Once lever clip is located in position P lever clip may be rotated in the direction of the arrow in referred to herein as the engaging direction and generally clockwise around the y axis in this example until edges and make contact with frame and the underside of upper pedestal respectively effectively positioning lever clip in position P. In position P edges and are just making contact. Installation continues with additional pressure being applied by the installer in the engaging direction as shown by the arrow at P in . Since edges and are now engaging with frame and upper pedestal the additional pressure may begin bending of spring arm as rotation continues edges and may also cut into frame and pedestal due to sharp edges thereby creating a solid electrical ground bond connection between frame and support and or enabling clip to resist lateral sliding relative to frame .

Once tab is low enough it may be pushed or otherwise encouraged in the direction towards frame until tab is located at least partially inside groove or at least partially under frame then lever clip may be released. The action of releasing lever clip may result in spring arm exerting a spring force in a disengaging direction which is approximately opposite the engaging direction or opposite arrows R in counterclockwise as shown though oppositely shaped parts in other embodiments see below may work the same except the rotational directions may be reversed . The release of lever clip may now result in tab moving upward slightly until it catches inside groove reaching a stable position position P as shown in and .

Lever clip provides a novel mechanism for connecting PV modules to support structures. The basic theory of operation is better understood by further reviewing . With lever clip fully installed in position P downward forces on PV module may be primarily resisted by upper pedestal of support . Upward forces such as wind uplift may result in a force F being applied to edge in the direction shown in . Since a principal portion resisting uplift force may be edge edge under such load may effectively act as a pivot point and thus the disengaging direction of lever clip may effectively be a counterclockwise rotation about edge . However it may be relatively easy for lever clip to resist movement in the disengaging direction since a only a small component of force F is in the rotational disengaging direction since angle T is relatively small and thus the effective moment arm C for force F acting about pivot is relatively small b spring arm acts as a lever to resist rotation in the disengaging direction with a substantial mechanical advantage which may be calculated as distance D minus distance C then divided by distance C and c rotation in the disengaging direction since the angle T is relatively small may require module to move laterally yet module as shown may also be held by at least other lever clips and such clips may not all face the same direction or operate in the same rotational direction see below thereby further reducing the load required to resist rotation in the disengaging direction. The lateral stability of a system of clips may result for example from some clips having a disengaging direction of clockwise and others having a disengaging direction of counterclockwise. Thus lateral movements of PV module in both the positive and negative directions along the x axis may result in some clips opposing that movement since such movement may tend to further engage such clips .

Different embodiments contemplate different values for the angle T with typical values being in the range of 5 to 40 degrees other typical values may include 1 44 5 15 15 20 and 30 45 degrees. The mechanical advantage for spring arm may be calculated as the ratio of the distance D divided by the distance C as shown in . With contemplated typical lengths for spring arm of 3 10 inches and lengths for the distance C in the range of 0.1 to 0.5 inches typical mechanical advantage ratios may be in the range of 6 1 up to 100 1. Other lengths and ratios are also explicitly contemplated.

In addition to providing substantial means apparatus systems or structures for resisting rotation in the disengaging direction that may be caused by force F and therefore maintaining a relatively secure connection between PV module and support including under an uplift load lever clip may provide other advantages as well. For example since tab on spring arm may not be presented with large loads during an uplift condition as discussed above spring arm may comprise a relatively low spring rate that enables easy bending of spring arm when moving from position P to position P thus making it relatively easy to install lever clip in the field. This may be in contrast to prior art systems where springs may be used in a manner that forces the spring to resist loads directly thereby requiring either a stiff spring that is harder to install or a weaker spring that provides poor performance under load. When in position spring arm may also place a significant pre load on the connection joint between PV module and support . This pre load may be effectively amplified by the mechanical advantage discussed above and may prevent movement within a joint as long as F is lower than a relatively high value. Thus in practice the pre load that spring arm applies to a connection joint between PV module and support may substantially stabilize the connection and reduce wear over time due to cyclic loading where such cyclic loads act on the joint with less force than the effective pre load on the joint .

Lever clip is shown in as requiring a generally clockwise rotation to connect PV modules to supports . In other embodiments similar to PV system lever clip is partially or completely replaced by a lever clip that is the same as lever clip except that it is a mirror image and thus operates in the opposite direction counterclockwise to engage instead of clockwise .

A typical installation sequence for the core components of PV system supports PV modules and lever clips may proceed as follows. First supports may be placed onto roof in the approximate locations shown in . Next PV modules are placed onto top of supports in the positions shown. While there are numerous ways to place modules into supports in one embodiment supports may comprise upper and lower positioning tabs and to provide a hard stop that a module may be slid up against to determine the correct position for the mating parts relative to each other. PV modules may be installed by placing module essentially vertically onto the slope just above drop in positioning tabs . Gravity may then assist as module slides down slope and contacts tabs . Modules may now be rotated from an essentially vertical position down into a final mounted position as shown. Once each module has been properly located on top of the supports that support it then lever clips may be installed according to the method described above. Each module may be held by four lever clips in one embodiment as shown with one lever clips near each corner. Lever clips are shown installed at least partly in the upper pedestals in but not installed in the lower pedestals so that module can be shown abutting positioning tab see for an example of how lever clip may connect a module to lower pedestal .

The instant disclosure illustrates optional accessories such as wind deflectors and ballast pans as will be discussed in more detail below as well as other auxiliary or ancillary devices some of which are disclosed or described herein or in the documents incorporated by reference herein which may be combined or attached to PV modules or mounting systems and apparatus. Such accessories are not necessarily required but in some cases there may be benefits to including such devices. For example wind uplift forces on PV system may be reduced in certain cases if wind deflectors are included on some or all PV modules . In other cases the provision of ballast pans may enable the addition of ballast blocks to PV system which may reduce minimize or eliminate the need for penetrating roof with screws to secure PV system to roof . While the embodiments shown in shows optional wind deflector and ballast pan other embodiments may include structures or systems essentially identical to the embodiments in except that they do not include wind deflector or ballast pan . Further embodiments are essentially identical to the embodiment in except they do not include wind deflector yet they may include ballast pan . Other embodiments are essentially identical to the embodiments in except they do not include ballast pan yet they do include wind deflector .

It is hereby contemplated and disclosed that wind deflector may be made produced or constructed out of relatively thin sheet or cast metal plastic ceramic composite or the like. Wind deflector may comprise two flaps L R located at opposite ends of deflector for the purpose of inserting behind deflector tabs such as in order to hold deflector in place. Deflector may also comprise a lower edge or flap for inserting behind deflector tabs such as in order to further retain deflector . Flap may be bent at a slightly outward facing angle relative to lower vertical portion so that insertion of flap behind flaps then rotating upward to insert flaps L R behind deflector tabs results in partial bending of flap and a pre loaded tight fit behind tab . It is noteworthy in this embodiment that flap is located essentially fully behind tab as shown in and at in but since tabs are short flap is only deformed right at tab and thus appears in to the right of tab since that is where it exists in the region behind tab .

A typical installation sequence for wind deflector may proceed as follows. First the core components of PV system supports PV modules and lever clips may be installed on roof as previously described or in another manner. Next deflector may be positioned close to its final position as shown in except rotated away from module slightly such that flap is slightly higher than tabs and approximately parallel with upper vertical portion . Deflector is inserted behind tabs then pushed all the way down then rotated back toward module until such flaps L and R are past tabs . Deflector may now be rotated back away from module slightly as flaps L and R are tucked behind tabs .

Wind deflector may further comprise pre stressed conduit knockouts for connecting to conduit fittings and perforated portions and may be used for bending down even with flaps L R at the end of a row when it is desired to slide support fully up under PV module .

Prior art wind deflectors typically comprise a wind deflector for the purposes of a preventing air from impinging on the under side of a PV module and producing lift and b reducing drag when wind strikes the deflector straight on from the rear or high side which might cause a PV array to slide along a roof. Thus wind deflectors in such systems typically block the high side to prevent wind from striking the backside of the PV module and angle the deflector to reduce drag therefore such prior deflectors may have only attempted to serve their purpose when the wind is directed toward the high side of the module. Some prior systems have attempted to reduce lift by also including vent holes intended to ensure equal pressure on the topside and underside of the PV module. However such attempts have not taught vent locations that connect specific lower pressure regions on the topside of a PV module with the underside of the PV module.

Referring more specifically to wind deflector may comprise a special shape optimized to reduce uplift forces on PV modules due to wind. Wind deflector may comprise a lower vertical portion an outward angled portion that allows deflector to go all the way up near a top surface of PV module and an upper vertical portion that ends in a small top flange that may angle back over toward PV module for example to enhance air flow characteristics. Upper vertical portion is positioned for example to leave a gap between wind deflector and PV module

At the wind speeds encountered by a PV array the fluid air may be viewed as essentially incompressible. Therefore Bernoulli s Principle may apply an increase in the speed of the fluid may be accompanied by a decrease in pressure. PV module and deflector effectively reduce the cross section of the air stream when the air stream is flowing as shown in . In order to maintain the same flow rate with this reduced cross section the velocity of the air stream increases. And this velocity reaches a maximum near apex where module and deflector meet. Deflector creates a gap between deflector and module located at apex where the fluid velocity is high and the pressure is low thereby connecting the underside of PV modules with the low pressure zone at apex . This arrangement may draw air out of gap as indicated by the upward arrow at apex and may further result in lower pressure on the underside of PV modules and a reduction in total lift. Similar effects may also result when the wind direction is other than shown.

FIGS. and show a weight or ballast holding supporting or carrying device such as ballast pan and one or more heavy object s block s stone s sand or highly dense material s such as ballast block . As shown in ballast pan may link high side horizontal flange with a corresponding low side horizontal flange on a next row of supports . Ballast pan may be approximately the same width as or slightly less than the width of support as shown in and may comprise substantially vertical walls . Walls may be of sufficient rigidity along the z axis to prevent ballast pan from sagging under the weight of blocks and thereby maintaining a gap between roof and ballast pan . Gap may reduce costs of a photovoltaic array mounting apparatus or system since protective material such as a slip sheet may not be required between ballast pan and roof . Ballast pan may be sized to carry anywhere from 1 to 5 ballast blocks or more thereby enabling the easy addition of weight as needed to resist uplift forces.

Bracket may comprise a generally U shaped profile having a base a high side vertical portion and a low side vertical portion . Other embodiments provide other shapes that still achieve the same basic functionality as described above and or below. Vertical portions and may be connected to PV modules via fastener . In the instant disclosure fastener may be a quarter turn device that may lock into groove in frame to secure bracket to both PV modules and . Fastener may connect substantially anywhere along a length of frame thereby allowing bracket to be variably positioned in order to align bracket with a structural member and or optimally position bracket with respect to resisting loads presented to PV modules . Bracket may further comprise a block a base plate and a flashing or roofing material . Base may comprise holes or slots to accommodate a fastener for connecting bracket to a block and base plate may comprise one or more fasteners for connecting to a structure such as a sheathing a purlin a girder a beam a rafter or the like below.

Bracket may comprise a long member spanning most of the width of PV module and comprising slots or holes for receiving fastener which may connect long member to block . Bracket may further comprise upper flat portion and lower flat portion that run approximately in the plane or an essentially parallel plane of PV module are located essentially directly beneath PV module frame and may be connected to frame as via lever clips . Bracket may further comprise a base plate and a flashing or roofing material . Base plate may comprise one or more fasteners as for connecting to rafter . Bracket may be variably positioned along the x axis by connecting substantially anywhere along a length of frame via lever clips . Block may be variably positioned along the y axis by connecting fastener through different holes or slots in member . Thus bracket has the ability to vary the connection point for fastener along one or both the x and y axes enhancing the flexibility for where bracket connects to rafters .

PV system shows PV modules tilted around the x axis as in PV system except here PV modules are tilted such that the short side of each PV module is the high side thus modules are oriented in a portrait configuration instead of landscape with respect to the y axis . One of skill in the art will recognize that both PV system and PV system may be oriented in either landscape or portrait configuration or other configuration including combinations .

Support may be similar to support except that it may be supporting PV modules along their y axis edges instead of along their x axis edges. Support may comprise a body portion extending along and substantially beneath adjacent edges of PV modules and . Body portion may comprise an upper pedestal with a platform angled around the x axis such as upper pedestal and a lower pedestal with a platform at approximately the same angle and in approximately the same plane as upper pedestal such as lower pedestal . PV modules may be placed onto and supported by upper and lower pedestals and .

PV system may further comprise lever clips similar to lever clips but adapted to work with supports . shows a perspective view of a bracket spring clip dream clip T Lock J Lock lock spring arm device spring bracket pivot lock clip lever clamp or lever clip such as lever clip . Lever clip may be similar to lever clip except lip may be replaced by lips and so that two PV modules may be connected simultaneously and lip may be replaced by lip so that an orthogonally located support portion instead of one that is parallel to an edge of PV module may be connected to PV module . Lips and may comprise corresponding edges and that serve a similar function to edge when clip is installed. Lip may comprise an edge such as edge that performs a similar function as edge except that edge may press against an underside of a support that is crossing module edge orthogonally such as upper pedestal or lower pedestal .

PV system may be installed as follows in a step by step based process similar to those described above. Supports may be placed onto a surface such as roof . PV module may be placed onto two supports as shown in second support not visible here but it is located beneath the edge opposite of the edge being supported by the viewable support . Lever clips connecting PV module to support the one not viewable may be fully installed since this may end up as or become the end module on a row of PV modules . Next another support is placed approximately one module s width over from module and then module is placed thereon as shown in . With both modules in place lever clips located in the space between PV modules may be rotated into position see above thereby connecting PV modules and to support . provide additional views of a gap between PV modules with lever clips connecting PV modules to upper and lower pedestals and respectively.

In an embodiment similar to PV system lever clip is replaced by lever clip as shown in the perspective view of . Lever clip is similar to lever clip except that lip has been removed thereby removing the ability for this embodiment of a lever clip to simultaneously connect two PV modules to a support. This difference may have advantages in some situations. For example when installing lever clips according to the installation procedure described above for PV system except substituting lever clips for lever clips an installer may fully secure supports to each module independently thereby preventing the need for aligning PV modules prior to installing lever clip . Lever clips may be installed on opposite sides of upper and lower pedestals and and in opposite directions which may result in better performance under certain shear loads.

PV system shows PV modules tilted around the x axis as in PV system . Support may be similar to support except that it may be shorter and only intended to support PV module in one location instead of two as with support . For example as shown in supports may primarily provide support to the upper portions of PV modules whereas a second support shown as support may provide support for lower portions of PV modules . Support may comprise an upper pedestal with a platform angled around the x axis such as upper pedestal which may be adapted to connect to PV modules via a lever clip such as lever clip and may be similar in terms of functionality to upper pedestal .

PV system may further comprise a lower support for supporting one or two PV modules along a lower edge such as support . As shown in support may comprise two lower pedestals such as lower pedestals and each for supporting a lower edge of a PV module and each in approximately the same plane as upper pedestals when PV system is installed on a relatively flat surface. Upper pedestals and lower pedestals may connect to PV modules via lever clips as described above. Support may further comprise a substantially vertical portion and a flange which may be used for example to provide additional resistance to uplift loads. Flange may be inserted inside groove or above frame so long as it provides a positive stop to resist upward movement of PV module .

PV system may be installed as follows. Supports and may be placed onto a surface such as roof . PV module may be placed onto two supports as shown in second support not visible here but it is beneath the edge opposite of the edge being supported by the viewable support and one support . Both lever clips connecting PV module to supports one visible and one not visible here and lever clip connecting PV module to support may be fully installed as shown in . Next another support and another support are placed approximately one module s width over from module and then module is placed thereon as shown in the second support is not shown here as it may not be required at the end of a row. In other embodiments a support is used at the end of a row and it is slid inward from the position shown in such that it does not protrude from the end of the row. The installation as shown in is completed by connecting PV module to supports and if utilized at the end of the row with lever clips .

Ballast pan may comprise walls for providing stiffness in the z axis direction and flaps . Ballast pan may be installed by sliding straight down and over support into the position shown in . Flaps and may interfere with support and thus bend outward to provide a spring load or pre load between ballast pan and support . Ballast pan may further comprise cutouts that leave places to step when an installer may be walking between rows of PV modules in PV system . Ballast blocks may be placed on top of ballast pan . Walls may be stiff enough to prevent ballast pan from sagging down and touching roof .

Good performance in uplift even with hand installable spring levers due to innovative lever clip design 

Compatible with grooved PV modules as well as PV modules comprising a substantially flat outward facing surface on the frame.

Other benefits and variations on the features uses and structures of the various embodiments explicitly disclosed herein may occur to one of skill on the art and are included in this instant disclosure.

Referring now to a PV array is shown installed upon a flat and level or low slope surface. A PV array such as PV array may include PV modules A D supports ballast pans and vertical walls .

Referring now to an enlarged section of PV array is shown. PV array may further include lever clips and wind deflectors . Supports may include an upper surface or pedestal a lower surface or pedestal tabs and openings . Lever clips may include a notch and an arm . As shown in supports may be arranged on a substantially level or low slope surfaces such as roof in rows and columns. The distance between neighboring supports in a row may be less than the length of the longest side of a PV module . The distance between neighboring supports in a column may be less that the length of the shortest side of a PV module . PV modules may be placed on supports such that each corner of the PV module rests on a support . The PV module may abut one or more tabs which may align the PV modules on the supports and reduce motion of the PV modules with relation to the supports . Clips may engage the frame or a portion of the frame of a PV module and an opening of a support to secure the PV module to the support . Clip may penetrate the frame of a PV module and create an electrical grounding bond between the PV module clip and support .

Referring now to another embodiment of a PV array is shown installed upon a flat and level or low slope surface. A PV array such as PV array is similar to PV array as shown and described in and others and to other PV arrays. PV array may include a bracket such as bracket . Bracket may connect to PV module C and PV module A using fasteners and may further connect to a surface or substrate using a fastener . The bracket installed may reduce or eliminate movement or other disruption to the PV array caused by wind or seismic activity.

Fastener comprises a hook portion and a coupling portion . Hook portion comprises a hook and a body portion with a curved lower surface and an aperture passing therethrough. Coupling portion is received through aperture and comprises a body portion a lever with a catch or catches A and B. As will be shown rotation of coupling portion with respect to hook portion causes catches A and B to rotate with respect to hook portion .

Aperture may comprise a circular portion and one or more non circular portions A and B and one or more risers A and B that create one or more recesses A and B. Coupling portion may comprise a lever with an inner portion and an outer portion that meet at an angle a large cylinder a small cylinder with a lip a neck with one or more curved surfaces A to D and one or more flat surfaces A to D that create one or more ridges A to D and one or more catches A and B and a spacer .

Coupling portion may be inserted into aperture of hook portion by orienting lever such that it extends downward and catches A and B such that they extend laterally from neck and align with non circular portions A and B. The shape of aperture may prevent coupling portion from being inserted into aperture in any other orientation. Coupling portion may rotate once inserted into aperture such that rotation may cause lip to move into recesses A and B and overlap riser A or B thereby preventing coupling from disengaging hook portion . Lever may extend outward from the rear most portion of large cylinder . Small cylinder may extend forward from the front most portion of large cylinder and may be concentric with large cylinder . Neck comprising curved surfaces A to D and flat surfaces A to D that extend from small cylinder and may be off center and non concentric with small cylinder . Neck has a center axis Al passing therethrough and cylinder has a center axis A passing therethrough. Catches A and B may extend outward from the front most end of neck or from elsewhere along neck . Spacer may extend forward from neck . Catches A and B may be angled rounded or a combination of angled and rounded.

While a number of exemplary aspects and embodiments have been discussed above those of skill in the art will recognize certain modifications permutations additions and sub combinations thereof. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims and claims hereafter introduced be interpreted to include all such modifications permutations additions and sub combinations as are within their true spirit and scope.

