---

title: Method and device for capturing a document
abstract: A method and device for capturing a positionally corrected image of a document is disclosed. The method comprises the steps of: obtaining a two-dimensional image of the document with a mobile terminal apparatus; performing edge detection within the two-dimensional image to identify edges of the document; determining angles between detected edges; calculating, based on the detected edges and the angles determined, a three-dimensional position of the document relative to a position of the mobile terminal apparatus; calculating correction information to correct, by relative movement, the position of the document relative to the position of the mobile terminal apparatus; providing first guidance information derived from the correction information to a user of the mobile terminal apparatus, guiding the user to perform the relative movement; and capturing a positionally corrected image of the document. Thereby, the document can be captured with a quality sufficient to permit Optical Character Recognition (OCR).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613265&OS=09613265&RS=09613265
owner: Open Text SA ULC
number: 09613265
owner_city: Halifax
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20150331
---
This application claims a benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a from European Patent Application Serial No. 14162937.8 filed Mar. 31 2014 entitled A METHOD AND DEVICE FOR CAPTURING A DOCUMENT which is fully incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

The invention relates generally to capturing a document. More particularly this disclosure relates to a method and device useful in or with a mobile terminal apparatus for capturing a document. Even more specifically this disclosure relates to a method or apparatus for scanning a document with improved image quality for Optical Character Recognition OCR .

In an electronic world there is a demand to have documents in electronic form and thus easy to handle electronically. Consequently documents in paper form need to be captured processed and stored in electronic form. This needs to be done anytime and anywhere. To reduce the time and effort for processing the information of such documents OCR is performed to convert the information into machine encoded computer readable text however to achieve good results and more specifically to reduce the number of false detections documents in electronic form need to be of sufficient image quality to permit successful OCR processing.

In order to achieve the above goals mobile terminal apparatuses having a device for capturing or scanning a document with sufficient quality to permit OCR can be used. Specifically such devices may use position sensors to measure the position of the device and provide information to a user as to how to change the position of the device with respect to the document such that it becomes horizontal. That is capturing a document with such a device requires the document to have a substantially horizontal position. In response to the information generated and corresponding with the measured position orientation of the device the user then changes the position orientation thereof such that the device is substantially horizontal as well and thus parallel to the document. However always positioning the document parallel to the device burdens the user because in particular cases where no horizontal reference plane e.g. a table desk or the like is present the user needs to hold the document with one hand while at the same time holding the device parallel to the orientation of the document with the other hand as well. Additionally position sensors consume energy which especially in the case of mobile terminal apparatuses reduces their usability due to the fact that the battery capacity of such apparatuses usually is limited.

Therefore there is a need in the art to address problems associated with devices for capturing a document with an image quality sufficient to permit OCR.

According to a representative aspect of the invention a method for capturing a document by a mobile terminal apparatus comprises the steps of obtaining a two dimensional image of the document performing edge detection within the two dimensional image to identify edges of the document determining detecting angles between detected edges calculating e.g. based on the detected edges and the angles determined a three dimensional position of the document relative to a position of the mobile terminal apparatus calculating correction information to correct e.g. by relative movement the position of the document relative to the position of the mobile terminal apparatus providing first guidance information derived from the correction information to a user of the mobile terminal apparatus guiding the user to perform the relative movement and capturing the document.

According to representative embodiments of this disclosure a document can be captured with an optimized or otherwise improved image quality for OCR. In particular distortions due to misalignment as between the document to be captured and the mobile terminal device may be avoided or otherwise reduced.

In one example the step of determining detecting angles between edges may include for each two detected edges a determination as to whether the edges have an intersection and if the edges have an intersection a determination of an angle between the two edges. In this way the entire document can be captured.

In another example the method may further include calculating e.g. based on correction information an amount of relative movement to be performed to correct the position of the document relative to the position of the mobile terminal apparatus and providing second guidance information according to the amount of relative movement to the user of the mobile terminal apparatus guiding the user to perform the relative movement. At least because the relative movement can be performed in accordance with the second guidance information in one step the document may be captured more quickly further improving the performance of the invention.

In yet another representative example the step of capturing may be performed automatically if the amount of relative movement is equal to or lower than a predetermined movement threshold. Automated capturing can eliminate the need to use a triggering key i.e. a key that may otherwise be required to trigger capture of the document . As using a triggering key may cause unintentional movement of the mobile apparatus elimination of such a need may operate to avoid unintentional movement and provide further improvement on the image quality of a document thus captured.

In another representative example the step of capturing may further include the steps of determining an image quality value of a document before capturing performing image enhancement operations if the quality value is equal to or lower than a predetermined quality threshold and or performing OCR of the captured document. Accordingly the quality of the document may be further improved.

According to another representative aspect a device e.g. a mobile terminal apparatus for capturing a document comprises means for obtaining a two dimensional image of the document means for performing edge detection within the two dimensional image to identify edges of the document means for determining detecting angles between detected edges means for calculating based on the detected edges and the angles determined a three dimensional position of the document relative to a position of the mobile terminal apparatus means for calculating correction information to correct by relative movement the position of the document relative to the position of the mobile terminal apparatus means for providing guidance information derived from the correction information to a user of the mobile terminal apparatus guiding the user to perform the relative movement and means for capturing the document.

In another representative example the means for edge detection may be adapted to further determine whether the edges have an intersection and if the edges have an intersection to further determine detect an angle between two edges.

In another representative example the device further comprises means for calculating e.g. based on the correction information an amount of relative movement to be performed to correct the position of the document relative to the position of the mobile terminal apparatus and means for providing second guidance information e.g. according to the amount of relative movement to the user of the mobile terminal apparatus guiding the user to perform the relative corrective movement.

In yet another representative example the means for capturing is further adapted to automatically capture the document if the amount of relative movement is equal to or lower than a predetermined movement threshold.

In one representative example the device further comprises one or more means for determining an image quality value of the document means for performing enhancement operations if the quality value is equal to or lower than a predetermined quality threshold and means for performing OCR of the captured document.

In each of the above aspects and examples the first and second guidance information may include visual audible tactile or combinations thereof.

In further representative aspects the invention may include a mobile terminal apparatus having a device for scanning a document a computer program product comprising machine executable instructions which when executed by a processing device perform the steps of the method for scanning a document and at least one non transitory machine readable medium having embodied thereon a computer program product.

The invention and various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known starting materials processing techniques components and equipment are omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention in detail. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Various substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements within the spirit and or scope of the underlying inventive concept will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure. Embodiments discussed herein can be implemented in suitable computer executable and or machine executable instructions that may reside on a computer readable and or a machine readable medium for example a hard disk HD hardware circuitry or the like or any combination thereof.

The invention generally pertains to methods and devices for capturing a document by a mobile terminal apparatus. In particular this disclosure pertains to a method and device for capturing a document with an image quality suitably adapted for improved OCR processing.

OCR is known in the art as being the mechanical or electronic conversion of scanned or photographed images of typewritten or printed text into machine encoded computer readable text. OCR is used as a form of data entry from original paper data source material or documents. Thus OCR is a common method of digitizing printed texts so that they can be electronically edited searched stored more compactly displayed on line and used in machine processes such as machine translation text to speech key data extraction and text mining.

Now non limiting embodiments of the invention are explained in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Representative documents to be captured by the method disclosed hereinafter can include paper documents such as invoices bank statements receipts business cards mail or any number of printed records. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that documents may also comprise a display of information on a display device such as a display screen of a laptop tablet computer electronic paper e paper electronic ink smart phone mobile telephone or any other mode of presentation which can be captured by for example an optical device such as a camera of a mobile terminal apparatus.

In representative method starts at block . In block a two dimensional image of a document is obtained. For example the two dimensional image of the document may be obtained using an optical device such as a camera. The optical camera can be stand alone with a connection to the mobile terminal apparatus or may be incorporated in the mobile terminal apparatus. The two dimensional image may have a particular resolution color depth and brightness. The two dimensional image may be displayed on a display device of the mobile terminal apparatus and thus viewed by a user of the mobile terminal apparatus.

Optionally pre processing may be performed in block to improve the quality of the two dimensional image obtained in block . Pre processing may include smoothing e.g. Gaussian smoothing noise reduction and or the like. For example it may be determined that the exposure of the two dimensional image is insufficient e.g. too dark too bright shadowed etc. and or the image definition focus is insufficient. If insufficiency is observed i.e. exceeding a predetermined threshold corresponding guidance information to guide the user in performing an action to improve quality of the two dimensional image is generated and provided. Examples of such guidance information may include reducing increasing the exposure switching on off a flashlight or lamp of the mobile terminal apparatus and or moving the mobile terminal apparatus closer farther away from the document. Guidance information is provided to the user of the mobile terminal apparatus. For example guidance information can be displayed on the display device. The method then starts again in block .

Then in block an edge detection process is performed on the two dimensional image to identify edges of the document contained in the two dimensional image.

As it is known to those skilled in the art edge detection relates to a mathematical method for identifying points at which the brightness changes sharply or has discontinuities. In general methods for edge detection comprise search based methods detecting edges by first computing a measure of edge strength e.g. a first order derivative expression such as the gradient magnitude and then searching for local directional maxima of the gradient magnitude using a computed estimate of the local orientation of the edge e.g. the first order gradient direction or the second order inflection points in the second derivative expression computed from the two dimensional image in order to find edges for example the zero crossings of the Laplacian or the inflection points of a non linear differential expression. Such methods for edge detection are known to those skilled in the art and accordingly a detailed explanation with respect to their application has been omitted for brevity.

Edge detection may be performed according to representative embodiments of the invention by scanning the two dimensional image obtained in block horizontally line by line and or vertically column by column in order to detect an abrupt transition in the color from for example black to white or in the color luminance from dark to light and vice versa. Abrupt transitions detected horizontally vertically can then be combined to form horizontal vertical edges. In a representative embodiment colored lines corresponding to the detected edges are displayed on the display device of the mobile terminal device to visualize the detected edges and guide the user.

In block preferably four edges of the document are detected in the two dimensional image by engaging an edge detection process. If less than four edges are detected corresponding guidance information may be generated and provided to the user of the mobile terminal apparatus to guide the user to obtain the two dimensional image such that all four edges of the document can be detected. For example this guidance information can be displayed on the display device of the mobile terminal apparatus guiding the user to move the position of the mobile terminal apparatus or the optical sensor device in the case that the optical device and the mobile terminal are separate devices and movably coupled in a direction that all four edges of the document may be displayed on the display device.

Additionally it can be determined in block whether two adjacent detected edges have an intersection with one another within or outside the two dimensional image. If two adjacent edges have an intersection the angle between the two adjacent edges can be determined detected. If there is no intersection observed the two adjacent edges may be elongated until they have an intersection with one another within or outside the two dimensional image. Otherwise if it is determined that two adjacent edges have no intersection within the two dimensional image corresponding guidance information can be generated. Corrective guidance information is provided to the user of the mobile terminal apparatus to guide the user to obtain an improved two dimensional image of the entire document. For example the guidance information can be displayed on the display device of the mobile terminal apparatus. Examples of representative guidance information include changed color of lines with which the detected edges are highlighted for example in a specific color. The method then starts again with block .

Optionally the planarity of the two dimensional image can be analyzed to determine whether the document from which the two dimensional image is obtained is sufficiently flat. In a representative example as the background of the document usually has a uniform color the region between the detected edges can be analyzed with respect to whether its color is uniform or not. In another example it can be determined whether each of the detected edges in block is a straight line. In case of non uniformity or an edge not conforming to a straight line corresponding guidance information is generated. The guidance information is provided to the user of the mobile terminal apparatus to prompt and guide the user to flatten the document. For example the guidance information can be displayed on the display device of the mobile terminal apparatus. The method then starts again with block .

In block angles between the detected edges in block can be determined detected. The detected edges in block are considered as constituting rays sharing a common endpoint namely the intersection of the edges. For each of the edges an angle in the plane of the two dimensional image can be determined or otherwise observed. Methods for determining an angle formed by two rays are known to those skilled in the art. Detailed description with respect to the same has therefore been omitted for brevity.

The method then turns to block in which a three dimensional position of the document relative to a position of the mobile terminal apparatus is calculated based on the detected edges in block and the angles determined detected in block . The three dimensional position of the document corresponds to a document plane and the plane of the two dimensional image corresponds to a reference plane parallel to the sensor plane of the optical device component of the mobile terminal apparatus. Furthermore it can be assumed that the shape of the document corresponds to that of a substantially orthogonal rectangle where adjacent edges of the document are generally perpendicular to one another. Representative processing in block may include projection and or keystone correction.

According to another representative example processing in block may be performed as follows as described above it can be assumed that the document from which the two dimensional image is obtained has a rectangular shape and that the reference plane corresponds to the plane of the two dimensional image with reference to which the plane of the document may be calculated. Furthermore the detected edges in block and the angles determined detected in block are taken as input for processing. The processing in principle may be performed in two steps namely a step for calculating the right to left tilt of the plane of the document with respect to the reference plane and a step for calculating the top to bottom tilt of the document with respect to the reference plane. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the order of the aforementioned steps is not necessarily important. Furthermore the steps may be either performed sequentially or in parallel.

For the right to left tilt it can be determined whether the left edge or the right edge is longer in length in the two dimensional image. The longer edge is regarded as being more close to the optical device component of the mobile terminal apparatus. Alternatively the same result may be achieved by comparing the angles wherein the edge having acute angles with adjacent edges can be regarded as being more close to the optical device component than the edge having obtuse angles between its adjacent edges. The plane of the two dimensional image then can be turned in three dimensional space around an axis lying in the same plane and being parallel to either the left or the right edge. For example the axis for turning the image may correspond to the right or left edge. Alternatively conjunctively or concurrently the plane of the two dimensional image may be turned until the angles between the adjacent edges become substantially perpendicular and or until the left and right edges become substantially equal in length. As a result of turning the plane of the two dimensional image a transformation matrix for mapping the reference plane to the plane of the document within one plane can be generated.

For the top to bottom tilt the above steps can be performed similarly with respect to the top edge and the bottom edge thereby resulting in a transformation matrix for mapping the reference plane to the plane of the document in another plane.

The plane of the document in three dimensional space can then be calculated using the transformation matrices and the reference plane.

Then in block correction information can be calculated to correct the position of the document relative to the position of the mobile terminal apparatus. Specifically the correction information may correspond to a relative movement with respect to the sensor plane or the document such that the positions of the document and the sensor plane become substantially parallel. For example the angles between the plane of the document corresponding to the three dimensional position thereof and the reference plane can be calculated e.g. using normal vectors of the planes as will be appreciated by skilled artisans and the correction information can be derived from the angles between the planes. The correction information corresponds to directions for relative movement and if the relative movement is performed in the indicated directions the angles between the planes will be reduced until they become coincident e.g. substantially equal to zero thereby reducing the tilt of the plane of the document with respect to the reference plane.

In one example an amount of relative movement to be performed to correct the position of the document relative to the position of the mobile terminal apparatus can be calculated based on the correction information. In a representative embodiment the angle between the planes may be used as information indicating the amount of the relative movement.

In block guidance information can be derived from the correction information. The guidance information may be provided to the user in order to prompt and guide the user to perform the relative movement. For example the guidance information can be displayed on the display device of the mobile terminal apparatus as first guidance information. Examples of first guidance information are discussed in more detail below.

Where the amount of the relative movement is calculated as well the first guidance information includes additional information or additional guidance information may be derived indicating the amount of the relative movement and guiding the user to perform the relative movement corresponding to the amount required for correction. The additional guidance information can be provided to the user e.g. by being displayed on the display device of the mobile terminal apparatus as second guidance information.

In accordance with at least the first guidance information the user then changes the position of either the document or the mobile terminal apparatus. That is to say the user changes the position of the document to be captured or the optical device component of the mobile terminal apparatus by performing relative movement in the direction as indicated by the first guidance information. Additionally the user performs relative movement with an amount as indicated by the second guidance information. When performing relative movement a remaining amount of relative movement to be performed can be calculated based on the amount of relative movement performed. If the amount of relative movement as indicated by the second guidance information is performed the user can be informed accordingly.

In a representative example blocks to may be performed repeatedly. To be more specific if the position of the mobile terminal apparatus or the position of the document is changed by performing relative movement in accordance with the first and or second guidance information provided to a particular extent the method returns to or starts again at block . Specifically when relative movement is performed at least the amount of relative movement as indicated by the second guidance information can be compared with a predetermined threshold value. If the amount is lower than or equal to the threshold value the method turns to block otherwise blocks to are repeated.

In block the document is captured. This may include taking an image of the document using for example an optical device such as a camera or another optical sensor of or connected to the mobile terminal apparatus. The image can then be processed by the mobile terminal apparatus stored in a memory of the mobile terminal apparatus and or transmitted to an external device for further processing or an external storage via a communication link. Processing of the image at the external device may include for example OCR processing.

In another representative example the document may be captured in block automatically if the amount of relative movement to be performed by the user is equal to or lower than a predetermined movement threshold. More specifically if the amount of relative movement is equal to or lower than a predetermined movement threshold capturing can be performed automatically. For example a document may be automatically captured if an amount of relative rotation translation camber movement is equal to or lower than a predetermined movement threshold and thus the image quality of the document when captured is equal to or higher than a predetermined quality threshold. In certain preferred exemplary embodiments if the amount of relative movement is equal to or lower than a predetermined movement threshold for a particular time period capturing can be performed automatically. A particular time period for automatic capture can be predetermined or pre configured by the user. For example a document may be automatically captured if an amount of relative rotation translation camber movement is equal to or lower than a predetermined movement threshold for a default or user configured amount of time e.g. a few seconds a second or a fraction thereof .

Additionally the operation of capturing in block may comprise a determination of image quality value of the document before it is captured performance of image enhancement operations e.g. if the quality value is equal to or lower than a predetermined quality threshold and or performance of OCR of the captured document. Enhancement operations may be similar to those described above with respect to pre processing. For example enhancement operations may comprise for example contrast adjustment brightness adjustment white balance and or the like.

The guidance information may include any of visual audible tactile or combinations thereof. For example the first guidance information indicating a direction may be displayed on the display device of the mobile terminal apparatus using icons arrows and or the like and or output audible sounds using a speaker device component of the mobile terminal apparatus. In a representative embodiment the second guidance information may be preferably displayed on a display device using a bar graph or scale. Other representations of the second guidance information may also be possible. Alternatively conjunctively or concurrently tactile vibrations can be generated using vibration device components of the mobile terminal apparatus to provide guidance information to the user of the mobile terminal apparatus.

In principle device may be suitably adapted to perform functions corresponding to steps of a method as generally described above with reference to .

For example device may comprise sensor means adapted to obtain a two dimensional image of the document detection means adapted to perform edge detection within the two dimensional image to identify edges of the document detection means adapted to determine angles between detected edges calculation means adapted to calculate e.g. based on the detected edges and the angles determined a three dimensional position of the document relative to a position of the mobile terminal apparatus calculation means adapted to calculate correction information to correct e.g. by relative movement the position of the document relative to the position of the mobile terminal apparatus feedback means adapted to provide guidance information derived from correction information to a user of the mobile terminal apparatus guiding the user to perform the relative corrective movement and processing means adapted to capture the document.

Representatively sensor means may comprise an optical device such as a camera means to may correspond to one or more processors. Feedback means may be configured as any of a display device a sound device and or a vibration device.

Detection means may be further adapted to for each two edges detected determine whether the edges have an intersection and if the edges have an intersection determine detect an angle between the two edges.

Device may further comprise calculation means adapted to calculate e.g. based on correction information an amount or magnitude of relative movement to be performed to at least partially correct the position of the document relative to the position of the mobile terminal apparatus and feedback means adapted to provide second guidance information for the amount of relative movement to the user of the mobile terminal apparatus thereby prompting guiding the user to perform the relative corrective movement. Feedback means may comprise any of a display device a sound device and or a vibration device. Feedback means can be combined together with feedback means in representative embodiments.

Processing means may be further adapted or otherwise configured to automatically capture the document if the amount of relative movement is equal to or lower than a predetermined movement threshold.

Device may further comprise one or more of detection means adapted to determine an image quality value of the document processing means adapted to perform image enhancement operations if the quality value is equal to or lower than a predetermined quality threshold and or processing means adapted to perform OCR of the captured document.

In one example feedback means may comprise or otherwise communicate with a vibration device where the corrective user guidance information is tactile. In a representative embodiment the vibration device may comprise four vibration units one at each side of device . Vibration units may be controlled separately. The vibration unit at the side of device in correspondence to supplied positioning guidance information may be activated to guide the user to move device in the direction corresponding to the side of device that vibrates. Additionally activation of the vibration device s may be controlled such that a force is generated urging the device in the direction corresponding to guidance information.

In certain representative embodiments device may comprise an electronic or computing device. Device in a preferred representative embodiment may be embedded or otherwise included in with a mobile terminal apparatus such as a laptop PDA tablet computer mobile telephone and or the like.

Other representative examples of the invention provide a mobile terminal apparatus comprising the device substantially depicted in a computer program product comprising machine executable instructions which when executed by a processing device perform the steps of the method substantially depicted in and a non transitory computer readable medium having embodied thereon a computer program product.

As shown in the corresponding illustration a mobile terminal apparatus e.g. smart phone includes a device for capturing a document. Smart phone has a display device divided into a section for displaying first guidance information a section for displaying second guidance information a section for displaying the two dimensional image obtained from a document and a section to toggle whether the document will be captured automatically .

In enlargements of sections and are further depicted. Section contains icons corresponding to first guidance information. The following representative icons are shown from left to right at least one of the edges was not detected rotate the mobile terminal apparatus left right move the mobile terminal apparatus left right move the mobile terminal apparatus up down planarity of the document is insufficiently flat and move the mobile terminal closer to or farther away from the document . Section may comprise a bar graph corresponding to second guidance information and either shows the amount of relative rotation translation camber movement in accordance with the icon of section or an image quality value of the captured document. The document may be automatically captured if the amount shown in section is equal to or lower than a predetermined movement threshold and thus the image quality of the document when captured is equal to or higher than a predetermined quality threshold.

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments thereof these embodiments are merely illustrative and not restrictive of the invention. The description herein of illustrated embodiments of the invention is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed herein and in particular the inclusion of any particular embodiment feature or function is not intended to limit the scope of the invention to such embodiment feature or function . Rather the description is intended to describe illustrative embodiments features and functions in order to provide a person of ordinary skill in the art context to understand the invention without limiting the invention to any particularly described embodiment feature or function. While specific embodiments and examples of the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes only various equivalent modifications are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize and appreciate. As indicated these modifications may be made to the invention in light of the foregoing description of illustrated embodiments of the invention and are to be included within the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus while the invention has been described herein with reference to particular representative embodiments thereof a latitude of modification various changes and substitutions are intended in the foregoing disclosure and it will be appreciated that in some instances some features of embodiments of the invention will be employed without a corresponding use of other features without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth. Therefore many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the essential scope and spirit of the invention.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process product article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process product article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

As used herein the terms determining determination detecting detection detector and or the like refer to functions and or device components that assign or otherwise provide an output value for at least one of a direct measurement an in direct measurement and or a computed measurement. For example a determination or detection of an angle between two lines may comprise a direct measurement of the angle between the lines an in direct measurement of the angle e.g. as in the case of extending the length of two non parallel lines outside the area of observation so as to predict their angle of intersection and or a computed measurement e.g. using trigonometric functions to calculate the angle . Accordingly determining the angle of intersection may be regarded as equivalent to detecting the angle of intersection and a detector for determining the angle may be regarded as directly measuring indirectly measuring and or computing the angle between the lines.

Additionally any examples or illustrations given herein are not to be regarded in any way as restrictions on limits to or express definitions of any term or terms with which they are utilized. Instead these examples or illustrations are to be regarded as being described with respect to one particular embodiment and as illustrative only. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any term or terms with which these examples or illustrations are utilized will encompass other embodiments which may or may not be given therewith or elsewhere in the specification and all such embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of that term or terms. Language designating such non limiting examples and illustrations includes but is not limited to for example for instance e.g. in one embodiment. 

Representative embodiments of this disclosure may be implemented in a computer communicatively coupled to a network for example the Internet an intranet an internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a storage area network SAN a personal area network PAN another computer a standalone computer and or the like. As is known to those skilled in the art the computer can include a central processing unit CPU or processor at least one read only memory ROM at least one random access memory RAM at least one hard disc drive HDD and one or more input output I O device s . The I O devices can include a keyboard monitor printer electronic pointing device e.g. mouse trackball stylus etc. or the like. In various embodiments of the invention the computer has access to at least one database over the network.

ROM RAM and HD are computer memories for storing computer executable instructions executable by the CPU or capable of being compiled or interpreted to be executable by the CPU. Within this disclosure the term computer readable medium is not limited to ROM RAM and HD and can include any type of data storage medium whether now known or hereafter described in the art which can be read by a processor. For example a computer readable medium may refer to a data cartridge a data backup magnetic tape a floppy diskette a flash memory drive an optical data storage drive a compact disk read only memory CD ROM ROM RAM HDD or the like. The processes described herein may be implemented in suitable computer executable instructions that may reside on a computer readable medium for example a disk CD ROM a memory etc. . Alternatively the computer executable instructions may be stored as software code components on a direct access storage device DASD array magnetic tape floppy diskette optical storage device or other appropriate computer readable medium or storage device.

In one exemplary embodiment of the invention the computer executable instructions may be lines of C Java JavaScript hypertext markup language HTML or any other programming or scripting code. Other software hardware network architectures may be used. For example the functions of the invention may be implemented on one computer or shared among two or more computers. In one embodiment the functions of the invention may be distributed in a network. Communications between computers implementing embodiments of the invention can be accomplished using any electronic optical radio frequency signals or other suitable methods and tools of communication in compliance with known network protocols.

Additionally the functions of the disclosed embodiments may be implemented on one computer or shared distributed among two or more computers in or across a network. Communications between computers implementing embodiments can be accomplished using any electronic optical radio frequency signals or other suitable methods and tools of communication in compliance with known network protocols. It will be understood for purposes of this disclosure that a service is one or more computer processes computing devices or both configured to perform one or more functions. A service may present one or more interfaces that can be utilized to access these functions. Such interfaces include application programming interfaces APIs interfaces presented for a web services remote procedure calls remote method invocation etc.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or a specific embodiment or similar terminology means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment and may not necessarily be present in all embodiments. Thus respective appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment or in a specific embodiment or similar terminology in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics of any particular embodiment may be combined in any suitable manner with one or more other embodiments. It is understood that other variations and modifications of the embodiments described and illustrated herein are possible in light of the teachings herein and are to be considered as part of the spirit and scope of the invention.

In the description herein numerous specific details are provided such as examples of components and or methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that an embodiment may be able to be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other apparatuses systems assemblies methods components materials parts and or the like. In other instances well known structures components systems materials or operations are not specifically shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of embodiments of the invention. While the invention may be illustrated by using a particular embodiment this is not and does not limit the invention to any particular embodiment and a person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that additional embodiments are readily understandable and are a part of this invention.

Any suitable programming language s can be used to implement the routines methods or programs of embodiments of the invention described herein including C C Java assembly language etc. Different programming techniques can be employed such as procedural or object oriented. Any particular routine can execute on a single computer processing device or multiple computer processing devices a single computer processor or multiple computer processors. Data may be stored in a single storage medium or distributed through multiple storage mediums and may reside in a single database or multiple databases or other data storage techniques . Although the steps operations or computations may be presented in a specific order this order may be changed in different embodiments. In some embodiments to the extent multiple steps are shown as sequential in this specification some combination of such steps in alternative embodiments may be performed at the same time. The sequence of operations described herein can be interrupted suspended or otherwise controlled by another process such as an operating system kernel etc. The routines can operate in an operating system environment or as stand alone routines. Functions routines methods steps and operations described herein can be performed in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in the form of control logic in software or hardware or a combination of both. The control logic may be stored in an information storage medium such as a computer readable medium as a plurality of instructions adapted to direct an information processing device to perform a set of steps disclosed in the various embodiments. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the invention.

It is also within the spirit and scope of the invention to implement in software programming or other steps operations methods routines or portions thereof described herein where such software programming or code can be stored in a computer readable medium and can be operated on by a processor to permit a computer to perform any of the steps operations methods routines or portions thereof described herein. The invention may be implemented by using software programming or code in one or more general purpose digital computers by using application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and or optical chemical biological quantum or nano engineered systems components and mechanisms. In general the functions of the invention can be achieved by any means now known or hereafter derived in the art. For example distributed or networked systems components and circuits can be used. In another example communication or transfer or otherwise moving from one place to another of data may be wired wireless or accomplished by any other means.

A computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus system or device. The computer readable medium can be but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus system device propagation medium or computer memory. Such computer readable medium will generally be machine readable and include software programming or code that can be human readable e.g. source code or machine readable e.g. object code .

A processor includes any hardware system mechanism or component that processes data signals or other information. A processor can include a system with a general purpose central processing unit multiple processing units dedicated circuitry for achieving functionality or other systems. Processing need not be limited to a geographic location or have temporal limitations. For example a processor can perform its functions in real time offline in a batch mode etc. Portions of processing can be performed at different times and at different locations by different or the same processing systems.

It will also be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in the drawings figures can also be implemented in a more separated or integrated manner or even removed or rendered as inoperable in certain cases as may be useful in accordance with a particular application. Additionally any signal arrows in the drawings figures should be considered only as exemplary and not limiting unless otherwise specifically noted.

Furthermore as used herein a term preceded by a or an and the when antecedent basis is a or an includes both the singular and plural of such term. Also as used in the description herein the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any component s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or component. The scope of the present disclosure should be determined by the following claims and their legal equivalents.

