---

title: Methods and apparatus for protected distribution of applications and media content
abstract: Methods, devices, apparatus, computer-readable media and processors are provided that protect the distribution of media content. Media content is encrypted and the associated cryptographic mechanisms are stored and accessible either remotely at a networked database or internally within a data storage device memory. Access to the cryptographic mechanisms is granted by associating the cryptographic mechanisms with a data storage device identification and, optionally, a computing device identification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628447&OS=09628447&RS=09628447
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09628447
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150429
---
The present Application for Patent is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 361 154 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR PROTECTED DISTRIBUTION OF APPLICATIONS AND MEDIA CONTENT filed Feb. 24 2006 assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The described aspects relate generally to protected distribution of media content in a network environment. More particularly the described aspects relate to protected distribution of media content and applications on a removable data storage device.

Removable data storage devices such as compact disc CDs digital video discs DVDs flash media cards and the like have become increasingly more prevalent in the distribution of digital media content such as music files video files multimedia files video gaming applications business applications text files and the like. These types of data storage devices afford the media distributor a relatively inexpensive medium for physical data storage while affording the user of the removable data storage device a means for interfacing the storage device with a wide variety of computing devices such as desktop computers laptop computers video game consoles handheld computing devices and the like.

One on going concern of the media content providers is the protection of intellectual property rights associated with the media content. If the content can readily be moved between computing devices and thus between users the copyright and patent protection i.e. the digital rights associated with the media content and or applications may be compromised. Current means for distributing data in protected environment that insures strong intellectual property protection are either cost prohibitive and or technically prohibitive. Realizing that removable data storage devices are generally inexpensive devices content providers are reluctant to implement methods for intellectual property protection that may add cost to the devices.

In addition to content provider concerns with the protection of intellectual property rights the user of the content desires a protection means that does not otherwise burden their access to the media content. User friendly access to the content is important from a device marketability standpoint insuring that the user continues to purchase data storage devices of this type. Thus a need exists to develop intellectual property protection means that are seamlessly operable and as such provide minimal burden to the user of the storage device.

Other protection concerns may also be related to removable data storage devices depending on the type and form of content stored on the device. In this regard data storage devices that store large media files and or objects may pose additional concerns. For example a content provider may provide a large amount of media content applications or files in a single data storage device. Some of the content such as executable files and the like may require protection while other content such as resource files and the like may not warrant protection. Being able to limit protection to content of interest provides many benefits. For example by limiting protection to only relevant content e.g. the music file the video file the video game application the remaining content may be accessible to multiple users and the remaining content may entice the additional users to purchase the protected content. Additionally by limiting the protected content to only relevant content the overall process of converting the content from protected to un protected content is streamlined thus adding to the efficiency of the process and making the user experience more friendly.

In addition large media flies and or applications may warrant individual protection for designated portions of the content. By developing methods and processes that allow for individual protection of various portions of content new and innovative business models may be devised to provide users access to such content. For example in today s video gaming market users that wish to purchase additional features or upgrades to a video game application are typically required to purchase an additional data storage device that warrants a return visit to the video game retailer. Therefore a need exists to provide a data storage device that allows the user on demand access to additional features upgrades etc. thus eliminating the need for the user to re visit the retail outlet or otherwise find a purchasing option for the additional features.

Therefore a need exists to develop a means for implementing data protection in removable data storage devices that affords the content provider a reasonable solution from a cost perspective and affords the device user a user friendly means of accessing the protected content. Additionally a need exists to provide a data storage device that includes storage of a large volume of content applications some of which require protection and some of which do not require protection. Also a need exists to develop methods and apparatus for providing on demand protected access to additional features or content related to main content stored on the data storage device.

Thus devices methods apparatus computer readable media and processors are presented that provide data protection in removable data storage devices such as CDs DVDs flash media cards and the like. The data protection that is afforded is both simplistic in technological design and reasonable from a cost implementation standpoint. The devices methods apparatus computer readable media and processors can be configured to provide protection to only those portions of content stored on the device that require such protection thereby allowing for un protected content to remain accessible to all users. Additionally the methods apparatus computer readable media and processors may be configured to limit the access to the protected content based on association of the storage device with one or more computing devices. Also the methods apparatus computer readable media and processors may be configured to provide individual protection to portions of the content stored on the devices thus limiting user access to individual portions of the content based upon the licensing rights of the user.

In some aspects a method for obtaining content in a protected environment comprises receiving a storage device comprising a storage device identifier and protected content. The method further includes forwarding the storage device identifier to a network device. Further the method includes receiving at least a reference to a cryptographic mechanism from the network device based on an association with the storage device identifier. Additionally the method includes accessing at least a portion of the protected content with the cryptographic mechanism. In a related aspect a computer readable medium tangibly stores a sequence of instructions that when executed cause a computer device to perform the actions described above. In a further related aspect at least one processor may be configured to perform the operations described above.

In other aspects a wireless device comprises means for receiving a storage device comprising a storage device identifier and protected content. The wireless device further comprises means for forwarding the storage device identifier to a network device and means for receiving at least a reference to a cryptographic mechanism from the network device based on an association with the storage device identifier. Additionally the wireless device includes means for accessing at least a portion of the protected content with the cryptographic mechanism.

In yet other aspects a computing device such as wireless device a desktop computer a laptop device a gaming console or the like comprises a processing engine and a content access initiator module executable by the processing engine. The content access initiator being operable to recognize protected content stored on a storage device communicate a storage device identifier to a network device receive from the network device at least a reference to a first cryptographic mechanism associated with the storage device identifier and apply the first cryptographic mechanism to at least a portion of the protected content to convert the portion of the protected content to a portion of un protected content

In still other aspects a method for distributing content in a protected environment comprises obtaining an association between a first storage device identifier and a cryptographic mechanism and obtaining at least a reference to the cryptographic mechanism. The method further includes receiving a request from a computing device for access to at least a portion of a protected content where the request comprises a second storage device identifier. Additionally the method includes forwarding at least the reference to the cryptographic mechanism to the computing device based on a correspondence between at least a portion of the second storage device identifier and the first storage device identifier. In a related aspect a computer readable medium tangibly stores a sequence of instructions that when executed cause a computer device to perform the actions described above. In a further related aspect at least one processor may be configured to perform the operations described above.

In further aspects a network device such as a network server or any other device capable of being networked with a computing device is defined. The network device comprises means for obtaining an association between a first storage device identifier and a cryptographic mechanism and means for obtaining at least a reference to the cryptographic mechanism. The network device further includes means for receiving a request from a computing device for access to at least a portion of a protected content the request comprising a second storage device identifier. Additionally the network device includes means for forwarding at least the reference to the cryptographic mechanism to the computing device based on a correspondence between at least a portion of the second storage device identifier and the first storage device identifier.

In other aspects a network device comprises a processing engine and a personalization module executed by the processing engine. The personalization module being operable to receive a storage device identifier from a networked computing device determine a cryptographic mechanism associated with the storage device identifier and communicate at least a reference to the cryptographic mechanism to the computing device.

In still other aspects a method of distributing content comprises loading unprotected content on a storage device having a storage device identifier the storage device configured for removable communication with a computing device. The method further includes obscuring at least a portion of the unprotected content with a cryptographic mechanism thereby defining at least a portion of a protected content. Also the method includes defining an association between the storage device identifier and the cryptographic mechanism. Additionally the method includes forwarding the defined association to a network device operable to provide access to at least the portion of the protected content to a networked computing device having the storage device identifier.

In some aspect a data storage device such as media card CD DVD game cartridge or the like includes a memory comprising a data storage device identifier and protected content such as encrypted content. The data storage device identifier may be a serial number or and other identifier associated with the device. The protected content is convertible to unprotected content by communicating the identifier to a network device that responds with a cryptographic mechanism associated with the identifier.

Thus the described aspects provide for a cost effective and efficient means for protecting content stored on removable data storage devices.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors are described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Further in this description like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors provide for protected distribution of content that is stored in removable data storage devices such as magnetic media optical media tape soft disk hard disk or the like. For example the removable data storage device may take the form of a CD DVD flash media card or the like. Content as referred to herein encompasses any digital media file application routine data or other information executable or non executable that may be stored on a data storage device. Further protected content as referred to herein comprise a secured and or obscured form of the content such as may be obtained by encrypting the content hashing the content ciphering the content etc. Additionally key as referred to herein comprises a cryptographic mechanism to transform unprotected content into and or out of protected content such as an encryption algorithm applied to the content a hash a cipher a public key a private key a symmetric key etc.

Referring to in one aspect a system for providing protected distribution of content is schematically illustrated. The system includes removable data storage device such as CD A DVD B flash media card C or smart card D. The removable data storage devices shown in are by way of example only other removable data storage devices are also contemplated and within the scope of the present aspects. The removable data storage device includes memory that stores protected content and a data storage device identifier . Protected content is the term herein used to refer to all content that is protected from user access typically protected content may take the form of coded or ciphered content i.e. encrypted content . The data storage identifier is typically a data storage device serial number or some other identifier that will uniquely differentiate the data storage device from other data storage devices.

The removable data storage device is in data communication with the computing device . The computing device may include wireless communication device A wireless gaming device B laptop computer C or desktop computer D. The computing devices shown in are by way of example only other computing devices are also contemplated and within the scope of the present aspects. In many aspects data communication between the data storage device and the computing device requires the storage device to be removably secured within the computing device. However in other aspects it is also possible for the system to be configured such that the storage device is in wired or wireless data communication with the computing device while the storage device is remote from the computing device. For example the data storage device may be configured to communicate with the computing device via short range communication such as via infrared IR waves Bluetooth protocol messages Wi Fi technology Wi Max technology or the like.

The computing device includes a computer platform that provides for the execution of content access initiator module . Content access initiator module includes executable instructions for recognizing protected content on a data storage device in communication with the computing device communicating the data storage device identifier to a network device in response to the recognition of protected content receiving one or more content keys from the network device in response to the communication of the identifier and applying the one or more keys to the protected content for the purpose of accessing the content.

The system may also include a network device such as a network server that is in network communication with the computing device . The network device executes personalization module which determines associations between data storage device identifiers and content keys . Once the personalization module determines association between data storage device identifiers and content keys the personalization module may retrieve the one or more content keys from network database . In turn the network device may communicate the one or more content keys to the computing device which applies the one or more keys to the protected content for the purpose of converting the protected content to user accessible un protected content. The network device shown in is by way of example only any device capable of being networked to the computing device and capable of executing personalization module are also contemplated and within the scope of the present aspects. As dictated by the functionality of the computing device the network device may be in wired wireless or both wired and wireless communication with the computing device .

In accordance with the system aspect provides a more detailed block diagram of the system for providing protected distribution of content. The removable data storage device may include memory such as flash read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM or the like that stores protected content and a data storage device identifier . As illustrated the data storage device may store a single entity of protected content such as first protected content A or the data storage device may optionally store a plurality of protected content such as second protected content B and nth protected content C. In aspects in which the data storage device stores a plurality of protected content each protected content portion or entity may optionally have an associated protected content portion identifier A B and C. The protected content portion identifiers may be associated with one or more content keys that are applied to the protected content portion to convert the content to un protected content.

In some aspects all of the content stored on the data storage device may be protected content while in other aspects the data storage device may store additional non protected content . The non protected content may be content that is readily accessible to all users at any time. For example the non protected content may be a media player application and the protected content may be one or more media files e.g. music files video files or the like . Alternatively the non protected content may be files applications routines or the like that are used in conjunction with the protected content once the protected content has been converted to non protected content . For example the data storage device may store a large quantity of applications and or media resources where the core applications may be protected and the resource files may be non protected. Once access has been granted to the protected core applications the core applications are deemed to be executable and may utilize the non protected resource files during execution.

In some aspects the non protected content may include a preview of the protected content stored on the storage device and or a preview of additional related content that is either stored and protected on the storage device or stored remotely at a network device such as additional versions of a gaming application additional related music or video files or the like. In such aspects the non protected content may include an embedded link that provides the user access to a network server or network site for the purpose of purchasing the protected content and or additional related content. In aspects in which the non protected content includes a preview of the protected content the data storage devices may be gratuitously distributed to potential content buyers with the non protected preview content acting as an enticement to purchase the protected content. In other aspects in which the non protected content is a preview of additional related content i.e. content not originally purchased by the buyer of the data storage device the additional content may be additional protected content stored on the data storage device or the additional content may be remotely stored content that is downloaded to the computing device upon purchase.

Additionally in some aspects the non protected content may include limited use of the protected content stored on the storage device and or limited use of additional related content that is either stored and protected on the storage device or stored remotely at a network device. For example the non protected content may include a limited use gaming application music file video file or the like. In such aspects the data storage device may be configured such that the non protected content has limited use such as a predetermined finite number of uses or plays a predetermined limited time period in which the non protected content may be available a predetermined set of functionality less than the full functionality of the protected content and an accessibility to a predetermined limited portion of the full amount of content. Alternatively in other aspects the data storage device may be configured such that limited use of the non protected content is associated with the computing device. For example a non protected music file may be limited to two plays per computing device thus allowing for the non protected music file to be played up to two times on any accommodating computing device. In such aspects the network device may provide for the tracking of limited use to computing device by requiring the computing device to communicate a device identifier to the network device upon initial activation of the non protected limited use content.

The system additionally includes a computing device that has a computer platform that can transmit and receive data across network and execute routines and applications stored in computing device data repository or data storage device memory . The data repository stores content access initiator module that provides instructions that are executed by content access initiator logic for recognizing protected content on data storage devices that are read by the computing device communicating the data storage device identifier to a network device in response to the recognition of protected content receiving one or more content keys from the network device in response to the communication of the identifier and applying the one or more keys to the protected content for the purpose of accessing the content. In other aspects the content access initiator module may be stored on the data storage device as non protected content .

The data repository may typically also store a computing device identifier . In some aspects the computing device identifier may be implemented to associate the computing device with data storage device and or the content keys.

The data repository which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further data repository may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes at least one processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident or non resident programs such as content access initiator module stored in a data repository of the computing device or in the memory of the data storage device . In aspects in which the computing device is a wireless computing device the API is typically a runtime environment interface executing on the computing device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine typically includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of computing device and the operability of the computing device on network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining network communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In one aspect in which the computing device is embodied by a wireless communication device communications processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processing engine may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components which receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the content access initiator module .

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the computing device as well as between the device and the network . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection.

Additionally computing device may include input mechanism for generating inputs into wireless device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the computing device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

The system additionally includes a network device that has a computing platform that can transmit and receive data across network . The computer platform includes a processing engine that is capable of executing modules routines and or applications stored in network device data repository or in network database . The processing engine may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. The network database may reside in a device remote from the network device or the database may reside internally within the network device. In aspects in which the database resides internally within the network device the database may be included within the data repository .

The data repository may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further data repository may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The data repository may include a personalization module that includes instructions utilized by the personalization logic for determining associations between data storage devices and content keys . In alternate aspects the personalization module may also determine associations between computing devices and data storage devices and or associations between protected content portions and content keys . The personalization module determines associations by accessing the network database and locating associations within a specific look up table or some other form of association element. As such the network database may include a data storage device identifier and content key look up table for determining associations between data storage devices and content keys . In alternate aspects the network database may include data storage device identifier and computing device identifier look up table for determining associations between data storage devices and computing device . In still further aspects the network database may include protected content portion identifier A B C and content key look up table for determining associations between protected content portions and content keys .

In some aspects the network database may also store the protected content for the purpose of initially downloading the protected content to data storage devices and or updating replacing the protected content on the data storage devices. For example if the user of the data storage device misplaces loses or otherwise no longer has possession of the data storage device the user may be able to contact the network device and retrieve the protected content based on the computing device identifier or a user identifier that associates either the computing device or the user with the protected content.

Additionally the network database may also store individual data storage device files which provide the remote storage of parameters settings and the other information related to the protected content. For example if the protected content is a gaming application the data storage device files may store game settings levels of the game achieved an interrupted game or the like. By providing for remote storage of files the network device may limit the storage ability of the computing device and or serve as a back up storage device. For example if a user loses possession of the data storage device and requires a replacement device or purchases an updated or new version of the initial data storage device the network device can initially recognize the user or the computing device and apply the settings in the data storage device files to the content found in the replacement device updated device or new version sequel device.

The network device may additionally include a monitoring module that includes instructions utilized by the monitoring logic for monitoring the use of content on the computing device . In this regard the monitoring module acknowledges the content stored on the data storage device and any other content accessed or otherwise executed by the computing devices. Additionally the monitoring module may monitor environmental attributes of the computing device such as the geographic location of the wireless device movement of the device point in time of the device etc. Monitoring of the content accessed or used by the computing devices may be accomplished by uploading logs from the computing device or otherwise communicating with the computing device. Based on content stored on the data storage device and any other content accessed or otherwise executed by the computing device the recommendation logic will push recommendations for other similar content to the device such as similar music files audio files gaming applications or the like. Additionally the monitoring module may use the environmental data to base the recommendation on the environmental attributes of the computing device such as the location of the device the time of day or the like.

The data repository may additionally include a communication module that includes instructions utilized by the communication logic for receiving identifier communications from computing devices and transmitting content key communications to computing devices. The communications module may embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the network device as well as between the device and the network . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless and or wired communication connection.

In one aspect a method for protected distribution of content in a wireless network environment is provided. provides a block diagram of an illustrative wireless system specifically a cellular telephone system. As previously noted the aspects herein disclosed are not limited to a wireless network environment and may also be implemented in a wired network environment. Network communication according to the present aspects includes but is not limited to communicating the identifiers i.e. the data storage identifier the computing device identifier and or or the protected content portion identifiers to the network device and communicating the control keys from the network device to the computing device.

Referring to in one aspect computing device comprises a wireless communication device such as a cellular telephone. A cellular telephone system may include wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . Wireless communication devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and often can communicate packets including voice and data over wireless network . As described earlier these smart wireless devices have APIs resident on their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the wireless communication device and control certain functionality on the device. is a representative diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a wireless communication network and the interrelation of the elements of one aspect of the present system. Wireless network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless communication devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

In system network device can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with a separate network database for storing content keys and associated look up tables. Further a data management server may be in communication with network device to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. Network device network database and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone system with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. Network device and or data management server communicate with carrier network through a data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless communication devices by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

In alternate aspects the content encryption key may be generated using the identifier of the data storage device or the computing device. In these aspects the identifier is used as the seed in an encryption algorithm to generate the encryption key. In these alternate aspects the encryption keys may be generated at further stages in the process such as at the point the content is stored on the data storage device or at the point the data storage device is placed in communication with the computing device. In such alternate aspects it may be possible to obviate the need for a store forward approach by storing the key on the data storage device or on the computing device. In such aspects in which the key is stored and retrieved from the data storage device or the computing device the need for back end network storage and retrieval of the content keys is obviated and hence not a required element of the process or system.

At Event the content encryption key is communicated to a network database for subsequent association with data storage device identifiers. The content encryption key may be communicated to the network database electronically over a communications network or the key may be communicated manually by data entry function.

At Event the encryption key or encryption keys are applied to the content resulting in protected content i.e. encrypted content and at Event the protected content is stored on a data storage device. Data Element represents the unique identifier associated with each data storage device typically a serial number or the like associated with the data storage device. The unique identifier is stored as metadata within the device memory. Additionally it should be noted that Event may optionally include storing non protected content on the data storage device. As previously noted the non protected data may include a preview of the protected content and or additional protected content stored either on the data storage device or on a remote server. Additionally in aspects in which the non protected content includes a preview an embedded link may be provided for access and or purchase of the full content. The non protected content may additionally provide for limited use content that is accessible to the user of the storage device for a limited number of uses.

At Event the data storage identifier along with the CEK or an appropriate CEK identifier is communicated to the network database and at Event the association between CEK i and the data storage device is entered into a corresponding CEK and data storage device look up table . Association between the CEK i and the data storage device is accomplished by a personalization module that is executed at a network device and is in network communication with the network database .

At optional Event the data storage device which includes protected content in memory is marketed through a conventional sales outlet or otherwise placed in the commercial marketplace. In other aspects the data storage device may be procured by a user without a commercial transaction transpiring for example in those instances in which the data storage device is not used for commercial gain or is otherwise offered to the user without compensation. At optional Event the data storage device is purchased by a user or otherwise lawfully procured by a user. For example the data storage device with protected content may be purchased in a commercial sale or transferred to employees of an enterprise. At optional Event the purchase lawful procurement transfer and or exchange of the data storage device may be authenticated by communicating the sale procurement transfer and or exchange transaction and the device identifier to the network database .

Referring primarily to and secondarily to according to one aspect a process includes the personalization of protected content stored on a data storage device and the subsequent accessing of the content. At Event the data storage device is activated by placing the storage device in communication with a computing device . In many aspects the computing device may include a receptacle for receiving and securing a removable data storage device such as a CD DVD flash media card or the like. However in alternate aspects the computing device may include short range communication functionality such as IR or Bluetooth communications that allows for the computing device to read data without coming into physical contact with the storage device. Once the data storage is initially read a protected access initiator module that resides on the computing device on the storage device or on an associated network is executed on the computing device to recognize protected content.

Once protected content has been recognized at the computing device at Event the computing device communicates the storage device identifier and alternately the computing device identifier associated with the respective computing device to a network device . Network device for example may exist in a wired or wireless network optionally beyond a suitable firewall . Receipt of the storage identifier and optionally the computing device identifier by the network device may invoke the execution of personalization module within the network device. The personalization module determines associations between the data storage identifiers computing device identifiers if any and content keys. As such at Event the data storage identifier and alternately the computing device identifier is forwarded from the network device to the network database . In some aspects that do not include the computing device identifier the process may proceed directly to Event as is discussed below. In alternate aspects including the computing device identifier however at Event the personalization module determines if the data storage device has been previously associated with the computing device. See and the related discussion for a detailed flow for associating data storage devices to computing devices and determining associations . If the data storage device has not previously been associated with any computing device or if it has been associated with the computing device associated with the current computing device identifier then the process proceeds to Event . At Event the CEK and data storage device identifier look up table are utilized to retrieve the content key s associated with the data storage device identifier. At Event the content encryption keys are retrieved from the network database and communicated to the network device and at Event the network device communicates the content encryption keys to the computing device.

Once the computing device has received the content encryption keys at Event the computing device applies the encryption keys to the protected content to decrypt or otherwise convert the content from a protected secured form to an unprotected in the clear form. As such after Event the computing device has access to at least selected portions of the content. At Event the computing device may store the content encryption key in a secure portion of the computing device memory. By storing the content key in computing device memory personalization of the data storage device within the computing device only needs to occur once. Each subsequent use of the data storage device by the computing device may rely on the key stored in the computing device memory for decryption.

At Event the data storage device is obtained by a user who desires access to the content stored on the device. In some aspects for example the data storage device may be sold in a commercial transaction. In other aspects such as in an enterprise the data storage device may be issued to a user such as an employee or agent. Upon a purchase or other transaction transferring the device a user an authentication of the purchase or transfer can be accomplished by storing the purchase confirmation or transfer confirmation at the network database as procurement data. Optionally at Event the procurement data is communicated to the network database and stored therein. For example in a commercial sale the procurement data comprises information related to the sale such as a purchase confirmation or a transfer confirmation which may be communicated to the database at the point of sale transfer by automated means such via a communications network.

At Event the data storage device is placed in communication with a computing device and the computing device attempts to access data stored on the storage device. At Decision a determination is made as to whether the storage device stores non protected content. If the data storage device stores non protected content then at Event the non protected content may be accessed on the computing device. If the data storage device does not include non protected content or after accessing the non protected content then at Event the computing device may recognize the protected content and at Event establish network communication with a network device. The network communication connection may be established seamlessly i.e. without knowledge of the device user or the computing device may interface with the user asking permission to establish the network communication as a means of providing access to protected content.

Once the connection has been established at Event the data storage device identifier is communicated to the network device. At optional Decision the network device may determine if the right to use the data storage device content can be verified and or authenticated. For example the network device may attempt to determine if the data storage identifier has been placed in a use state i.e. if the device has been properly sold or transferred to a user as opposed for example to being a device that was stolen and is being used illicitly or out of the control of the entity that controls the use rights associated with the content. If the procurement cannot be authenticated then at optional Event the network device sends either a purchase option message to the computing device or an error access denied message to the user. The purchase option message may allow for the super distribution of the content on the data storage device by allowing a first user to pass the storage device to a second user who may then validly obtain access to the protected content by making an ad hoc purchase of the rights. If the rights can be authenticated then at Decision the network device determines if the storage device identifier is associated with one or more keys. If a determination is made that the data storage device is not associated with an encryption key then at Event the network device sends an error access denied message to the computing device.

If the determination is made that the data storage device is associated with one or more keys then at Event refer to the key s are retrieved from the network database and at Event the keys are communicated to the computing device. At Event the keys are applied to the protected content to decrypt the content convert the protected content to un protected content and at Event the computing device grants access to the content. At Event the key s are stored in the computing device memory for subsequent decoding of the protected content.

At Event the data storage device is obtained by a user who desires access to the content stored on the device as discussed above in detail see Event . Optionally at Event information relating to the procurement of the data storage device is communicated to the network database and stored therein.

At Event the data storage device is placed in communication with a computing device and the computing device attempts to access data stored on the storage device. At Decision a determination is made as to whether the storage device stores non protected content. If the data storage device stores non protected content then at Event the non protected content may be accessed on the computing device. If the data storage device does not include non protected content or after accessing the non protected content then at Event the computing device may recognize the protected content and at Event establish network communication with a network device. The network communication connection may be established seamlessly i.e. without knowledge of the device user or the computing device may interface with the user asking permission to establish the network communication as a means of providing access to protected content.

Once the connection has been established at Event the data storage device identifier and the computing device identifier are communicated to the network device. At optional Decision the network device determines if the rights of the user to the data storage device content can be authenticated as discussed above in detail See Event . If the rights cannot be authenticated then at optional Event the network device sends either a purchase option message to the computing device or an error access denied message to the user. If the rights can be authenticated then at Decision the network device determines if the data storage device is associated with any computing device or a pre determined maximum number of computing devices. If the determination is made that the data storage device has not been associated with a computing device or the pre determined maximum number of computing devices has yet to be attained then at Event the network device stores an association between the computing device and the data storage device.

If a determination is made that the data storage device is associated with any computing device or the pre determined maximum number of computing devices associations has been achieved then at Decision refer to the network device determines if the data storage device is associated with the currently communicating computing device . If a determination is made that the data storage is not associated with the current communicating computer device then at Event the network device sends a purchase option message or an error access denied message to the computing device . If a determination is made that the storage device is associated with the current communicating computer device then at Decision the network device determines if the storage device identifier is associated with one or more keys. If a determination is made that the data storage device is not associated with an encryption key then at Event the network device sends an error access denied message to the computing device .

If the determination is made that the data storage device is associated with one or more keys then at Event the key s are retrieved from the network database and at Event the keys are communicated to the computing device. At Event the keys are applied to the protected content to decrypt the content converting the protected content to un protected content and at Event the computing device grants access to the content. At Event the one or more keys may be stored in a secure portion of the computing device memory for subsequent decoding of the protected content.

At Event the data storage device is obtained by a user who desires access to the content stored on the device as discussed above in detail. Optionally at Event the purchase confirmation or transfer confirmation is communicated to the network database and stored therein. Typically information relating to the procurement of the data storage device by the user is communicated to the database at the point of sale transfer by automated means such via a communications network.

At Event the data storage device is placed in communication with a computing device and the computing device attempts to access data stored on the storage device. At Decision a determination is made as to whether the storage device stores non protected content. If the data storage device stores non protected content then at Event the non protected content may be accessed on the computing device. If the data storage device does not include non protected content or after accessing the non protected content then at Event the computing device may recognize the protected content and at Event establish network communication with a network device. The network communication connection may be established seamlessly i.e. without knowledge of the device user or the computing device may interface with the user asking permission to establish the network communication as a means of providing access to protected content.

Once the connection has been established at Event the data storage device identifier and the first protected content portion identifier is communicated to the network device. At optional Decision the network device determines if the rights of the user to the data storage device content can be authenticated as discussed above in detail. If the rights cannot be authenticated then at optional Event the network device sends either a purchase option message to the computing device or an error access denied message to the user. If the rights can be authenticated then at Decision refer to the network device determines if the storage device identifier and the first protected content portion identifier are associated with one or more keys. If a determination is made that the data storage device or the content portion are not associated with an encryption key then at Event the network device sends an error access denied message to the computing device.

If the determination is made that the data storage device and the first protected content portion are associated with one or more predetermined keys then at Event the key s are retrieved from the network database and at Event the keys are communicated to the computing device. At Event the keys are applied to the first protected content portion to decrypt the first portion of content convert the protected content to un protected content and at Event the computing device grants access to the first content portion. At Event the key s may be stored in a secure portion of the computing device memory for subsequent decoding of the first protected content portion.

At Event the computing device provides a user prompt asking if the user desires to access additional protected content portions. Access to the additional protected content portions may require the user to purchase the protected content portions or otherwise gain a license to access the additional content portions. For example the additional content portions may be additional audio or video files associated with the initial audio or video file i.e. the first protected content portion an additional game level associated with the initial game application an additional enhancement feature for the initial game application or the like. The computing device may be configured to prompt the user periodically or after the user has completed or executed the initial content in its entirety.

At Event the user elects to access one or more of the additional protected content portions subsequently referred to herein as the nth portion and in some aspects such an election may require additional payment. In alternate aspects the additional protected portions may be configured to be automatically accessed without the need for prompting or election i.e. keys retrieved and applied automatically . Such automatic access may occur at predetermined intervals or upon occurrence of a predetermined event.

At Event refer to a network connection is established between the computing device and a network device. Once the connection has been established at Event the data storage device identifier and the nth protected content portion identifier are communicated to the network device. At Decision the network device determines if the storage device identifier and the nth protected content portion identifier are associated with one or more keys. If a determination is made that the data storage device or the content portion are not associated with an encryption key then at Event the network device sends an error access denied message to the computing device.

If the determination is made that the data storage device and the nth protected content portion are associated with one or more predetermined keys then at Event the key s are retrieved from the network database and at Event the keys are communicated to the computing device. At Event the keys are applied to the nth protected content portion to decrypt the nth portion of content convert the protected content to un protected content and at Event the computing device grants access to the nth content portion. At Event the key s may be stored in a secure portion of the computing device memory for subsequent decoding of the nth protected content portion.

Thus the described aspects provide for methods devices apparatus computer readable media and processors that protect the distribution of media content. The simplistic approach to the present aspects allows for media content to be encrypted and the associated content encryption keys stored and accessible either remotely at a networked database or internally with data storage device memory. Once encrypted access to the content encryption keys is granted by determining association between the content encryption keys and data storage device identification and optionally computing device identification. The present aspects provide a method for securing a large volume of media content on a data storage device by protecting or encrypting primary or important portions of the content such as executables or audio video files while allowing secondary or less important portions of the content to remain non protected.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

Thus many modifications and other embodiments of the invention may come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

