---

title: Device, method, and system for augmented reality security
abstract: Devices and methods for authenticating a user of a mobile computing device to a content server include establishing a communication session between a target computing device and the content server that is identified by a session ID. The target computing device generates a pairing token using the session ID, which pairing token may be a two-dimensional bar code such as a quick response (“QR”) code, and presents the pairing token to the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device captures the pairing token and authenticates the user of the mobile computing device to an authentication server. The target computing device receives an authentication token from the authentication server in response to the mobile computing device successfully authenticating the user to the authentication server. The target computing device accesses content on the content server using the authentication token. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405889&OS=09405889&RS=09405889
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09405889
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150317
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 630 655 entitled Device Method and System for Augmented Reality Security which was filed on Sep. 28 2012 and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 990 914 on Mar. 24 2015.

As computing becomes more social and spans across devices users need to authenticate themselves while using an increasing number of foreign devices. Often those foreign devices are public untrusted devices or are less capable special purpose devices. Authenticating on such foreign devices allows the user to receive personalized services or to perform tasks using personal data. For example a user may wish to authenticate to a friend s networked television set in order to share personal pictures or a movie a user may wish to complete a purchase transaction using an online e commerce identity a user may provide personal information to a digital sign or kiosk in a retail store in order to perform a personalized search for goods and or a user may log in to a website on a public computer such as in an internet caf . Of course authenticating oneself directly on the public untrusted device may expose the user s password identification and or other personal information. For example the public untrusted device may have a virus or malware configured to capture and store such personal data.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes means to specify operands resource partitioning sharing duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated however by one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments of the invention implemented in a computer system may include one or more bus based interconnects between components and or one or more point to point interconnects between components. Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on a transitory or non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks electrical signals and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. In addition for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data or instructions it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths e.g. a bus as may be needed to effect the communication.

Referring now to in one embodiment a system for authenticating a user comprises a mobile computing device controlled by the user a target computing device to access content on the content server an authentication server to authenticate the user and optionally a third party login server to authenticate the user all communicating over a network . To do so as discussed in more detail below the target computing device is configured to establish a communication session with the content server to generate a pairing token not shown using a session ID identifying the communication session. The target computing device presents the pairing token to the mobile computing device which captures the pairing token. Given the pairing token the mobile computing device contacts the authentication server and optionally the third party login server over the network and authenticates the user. Upon successful authentication of the user the target computing device receives an authentication token from the authentication server over the network . The target computing device uses the authentication token to access content on the content server over the network .

The pairing token may be embodied as a visual or audio cue and as such may be presented and captured using standard components of the target computing device and mobile computing device such as digital displays and digital cameras. Therefore visual or audio pairing tokens may be implemented using standard existing computing devices without requiring additional hardware components in contrast to pairing methods using non standard hardware such as near field communication NFC radio technology.

The system allows the user to access content without entering sensitive information such as the user s credentials directly into the target computing device which may be untrusted and potentially compromised. Instead the user enters all sensitive information into the mobile computing device which is controlled by the user and therefore usually trusted by the user. In this fashion information security may be increased by associating physical security of the mobile computing device with information security and thereby exploiting humans intuitive sense of physical security.

Additionally the system allows the use of a target computing device that may not include a full user interface or may not include a web browser because the user credentials are entered on the user s mobile computing device . For example the target computing device may be a digital sign or kiosk device that lacks a keyboard or a networked television set where password entry by remote control is cumbersome. Using the mobile computing device to receive the user credentials makes the system easy to use and encourages the use of longer stronger passwords.

Referring back to the mobile computing device of the system may be embodied as any type of computing device capable of performing the functions described herein. For example the mobile computing device may be embodied as without limitation a smart phone a cellular telephone a handset a messaging device a tablet computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a mobile computing device a multiprocessor system a processor based system a consumer electronic device and or any other mobile computing device configured to capture the pairing token from the target computing device and authenticate the user to the authentication server .

In the illustrative embodiment of the mobile computing device includes a processor an I O subsystem a memory a data storage a communication circuitry and one or more peripheral devices . In some embodiments several of the foregoing components may be incorporated on a motherboard or main board of the mobile computing device while other components may be communicatively coupled to the motherboard via for example a peripheral port. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the mobile computing device may include other components sub components and devices commonly found in a computer and or computing device which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

The processor of the mobile computing device may be embodied as any type of processor capable of executing software firmware such as a microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller or the like. The processor is illustratively embodied as a single core processor having a processor core . However in other embodiments the processor may be embodied as a multi core processor having multiple processor cores . Additionally the mobile computing device may include additional processors having one or more processor cores .

The I O subsystem of the mobile computing device may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor and or other components of the mobile computing device . In some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge and a firmware device. In such embodiments the firmware device of the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory device for storing Basic Input Output System BIOS data and or instructions and or other information e.g. a BIOS driver used during booting of the mobile computing device . However in other embodiments I O subsystems having other configurations may be used. For example in some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processor and the processor may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the hashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the I O subsystem may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processor and other components of the mobile computing device on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processor is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. These signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the components of the mobile computing device . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of point to point links wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces vias bus intervening devices and or the like.

The memory of the mobile computing device may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Although only a single memory device is illustrated in the mobile computing device may include additional memory devices in other embodiments. Various data and software may be stored in the memory . For example one or more operating systems applications programs libraries and drivers that make up the software stack executed by the processor may reside in memory during execution.

The data storage may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data. For example the data storage may include any one or more memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices.

The communication circuitry of the mobile computing device may include any number of devices and circuitry for enabling communications between the mobile computing device and the authentication server and third party login server over the network as discussed in more detail below. The communication circuitry may be configured to use any one or more or combination thereof communication protocols to communicate with the network such as for example a cellular communication protocol e.g. Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA a wireless network communication protocol e.g. Wi Fi WiMAX a wired network communication protocol e.g. TCP IP and or other communication protocols.

In some embodiments the mobile computing device may also include one or more peripheral devices . Such peripheral devices may include any number of additional input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example in some embodiments the peripheral devices may include a display touch screen graphics circuitry keyboard mouse speaker system and or other input output devices interface devices and or peripheral devices.

In the illustrative embodiment the mobile computing device also includes a camera and a display . The camera may be embodied as a digital camera or other digital imaging device integrated with the mobile computing device . The camera includes an electronic image sensor such as an active pixel sensor APS e.g. a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS sensor or a charge coupled device CCD . In the illustrative embodiment no particular minimum image resolution is required of the camera that is the image resolution provided by standard camera phones as well as that of more sophisticated devices is suitable for the purposes of the present disclosure.

The display of the mobile computing device may be embodied as any type of display capable of displaying digital information such as a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED a plasma display a cathode ray tube CRT or other type of display device. In some embodiments the display may be coupled with a touch screen to facilitate user interaction.

In some embodiments the mobile computing device may include an audio sensor . The audio sensor may be embodied as any sensor capable of capturing audio signals such as a microphone a line input jack an analog to digital converter ADC or other type of audio sensor. The audio sensor is represented in with hashed lines to indicate the audio sensor is not present in some embodiments.

The target computing device may be any type of computing device capable of performing the functions described herein. In some embodiments the target computing device may be a less capable device with limited modes of user interaction such as a digital sign device an electronic kiosk a point of sale POS device or the like. In alternative embodiments the target computing device may be a more capable computing device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer or a tablet computer.

The target computing device may include components substantially similar to the mobile computing device which have been identified in with a common reference numbering scheme. As such the description provided above of the components of the mobile computing device may be equally applicable to those similar components of the target computing device and are not repeated herein so as not to obscure the present disclosure. Of course it should be appreciated that in some embodiments the mobile computing device and the target computing device may be dissimilar to each other as discussed above.

Further in some embodiments the target computing device may include an audio device . The audio device may be embodied as any device capable of generating audio signals such as a speaker an audio transducer a line out jack a digital to analog converter DAC or other type of audio device. The audio device is represented in with hashed lines to indicate the audio device is not present in some embodiments.

As discussed in more detail below the mobile computing device and the target computing device are configured to transmit messages to the authentication server the content server and optionally the third party login server over the network . The network may be embodied as any number of various wired and or wireless networks. For example the network may be embodied as or otherwise include a wired or wireless local area network LAN a wired or wireless wide area network WAN and or a publicly accessible global network such as the Internet. As such the network may include any number of additional devices such as additional computers routers and switches to facilitate communications between the mobile computing device the target computing device the authentication server the content server and optionally the third party login server .

The authentication server is configured to receive authentication data from the mobile computing device authenticate the user optionally using the third party login server and provide an authentication token to the target computing device as discussed in more detail below.

The authentication server may be embodied as any type of data server e.g. a web server or similar computing device capable of performing the functions described herein. As such the authentication server may include components and features similar to the mobile computing device and the target computing device such as a processor I O subsystem memory data storage communication circuitry and various peripheral devices which are not illustrated in for clarity of the present description.

The content server is configured to establish a content session with the target computing device and provide access to content on the device to the target computing device in response to receiving an authentication token as discussed in more detail below. Similar to the authentication server the content server may be embodied as any type of data server e.g. a web server or similar computing device capable of performing the functions described herein. As such the content server may include components and features similar to the mobile computing device and the target computing device such as a processor I O subsystem memory data storage communication circuitry and various peripheral devices which are not illustrated in for clarity of the present description. The content server may be embodied as an independent server or computing device separate from the authentication server as shown in .

The third party login server is configured to provide third party login services for system . Example third party login servers may include web account providers such as Yahoo or Google social networks such as Facebook or Twitter e commerce vendors such as Amazon or more generally any third party server implementing an authorization protocol such as the OAuth authorization protocol.

Similar to the authentication server and the content server the third party login server may be embodied as any type of data server e.g. a web server or similar computing device capable of performing the functions described herein. As such the third party login server may include components and features similar to the mobile computing device and the target computing device such as a processor I O subsystem memory data storage communication circuitry and various peripheral devices which are not illustrated in for clarity of the present description. Third party login server may not be present in all embodiments as indicated by its hashed outline in .

Referring now to in one embodiment the target computing device establishes an environment during operation. The illustrative embodiment includes an application a pairing module an authentication module and a content management module . Each of the pairing module the authentication module and the content management module may be embodied as hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. The application may be embodied as any type of software or firmware application configured to allow the user to access content provided by the content server . For example the application may be embodied as a point of sale application a web browser or a digital sign display application.

The pairing module is configured to generate a pairing token and present the pairing token to the mobile computing device . As discussed above the pairing token may be embodied as a visual or audio cue capable of being presented using standard components of the target computing device .

The authentication module is configured to poll the authentication server and receive an authentication token when the user has successfully authenticated. Alternatively in some embodiments the authentication module may be included in the environment of content server discussed in connection with below. For example the target computing device may be located behind a network firewall and may be unable to contact the authentication server directly.

The content management module is configured to establish a communication session with the content server receive a session ID identifying the communication session and access content on the content server using the authentication token received from the authentication server . The pairing module may generate the pairing token using this session ID as discussed in more detail below. In some embodiments the content management module may process content from the content server . For example the content management module may display the content or may complete a purchase transaction.

Referring now to in one embodiment the mobile computing device establishes an environment during operation. The illustrative embodiment includes a pairing module a user interface module and an authentication module each of which may be embodied as hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. The pairing module is configured to capture a pairing token presented by the target computing device and determine the session ID from the pairing token.

The user interface module may be configured to present an authentication user interface to the user. In some embodiments the user interface module may allow the user to define access to his or her personal information.

The authentication module is configured to register the mobile computing device with the authentication server collect user credentials from the user authenticate the user to the mobile computing device as a function of the user credentials and authenticate the mobile computing device to the authentication server using the session ID. In some embodiments the authentication module may update the user s profile including the user s personal information. In some embodiments the authentication module may collect user credentials and authenticate the user using the third party login server .

Referring now to in one embodiment the authentication server establishes an environment during operation. The illustrative embodiment includes a registration module a token management module and an authentication module each of which may be embodied as hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. The registration module is configured to register a mobile computing device with the authentication server .

The token management module is configured to generate an authentication token associated with the session ID. In some embodiments the token management module may generate the authentication token as a function of the session ID.

The authentication module is configured to receive the session ID from the mobile computing device and to authenticate the user as a function of the user credentials. In some embodiments the authentication module is configured to receive a username and a password from the mobile computing device. In alternative embodiments the authentication module is configured to authenticate the user using the third party login server .

Referring now to in one embodiment the content server establishes an environment during operation. The illustrative embodiment includes a content management module a session management module and a content database each of which may be embodied as hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. The content management module is configured to provide content to the target computing device in response to receiving an authentication token.

The session management module is configured to generate a session ID to identify a communication session established between the content server and the target computing device . As discussed above the authentication token is associated with the session ID and in some embodiments may be a function of the session ID. The content database is configured to store the content data that is accessed by the target computing device using the content management module .

Referring now to in use the target computing device may execute a method for authenticating a user of the mobile computing device to the content server . The method begins with block in which the target computing device determines whether an interaction request from the user has been detected. The interaction request may include any suitable user interaction such as pressing a button selecting an on screen user interface control speaking a voice command or otherwise. In some embodiments the interaction request may not be express for example a digital sign device may be prepared to interact with any user within eyesight.

Upon the target computing device detecting an interaction request the method advances to block . In block the content management module sets up a communication session with the content server . Content provided by the content server may include interactive content such as web pages media content such as music or video payment processing information such as credit card information personal information about the user stored on the content server or other digital content. In block the content management module receives a session ID from the content server . The session ID identifies the communication session between the target computing device and the content server . The session ID may be embodied as a numeric code a text label a uniform resource identifier URI or similar identifier.

In block the pairing module generates a pairing token using the session ID. The pairing token may be embodied as any feature of the target computing device detectable by the mobile computing device using standard input methods. For example in some embodiments the pairing token may be embodied as a two dimensional bar code such as a quick response QR code. In alternative embodiments the pairing token may be an audio signal.

In block the pairing module presents the pairing token to the mobile computing device . In some embodiments the pairing token is presented by displaying a two dimensional bar code on the display of the target computing device . In alternative embodiments the pairing token is presented by playing an audio signal on the audio device of the target computing device . After being presented the pairing token the mobile computing device proceeds to authenticate the user as discussed in more detail below.

In block the authentication module polls the authentication server for an authentication token. The authentication token is generated by the authentication server in response to the user successfully authenticating as described in more detail below. At block the authentication module determines if the user has successfully authenticated. If not method loops back to block to continue polling the authentication server. If the user has successfully authenticated method proceeds to block . Although the authentication module is embodied as polling the authentication server it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that other techniques for querying the authentication server are possible for example registering with the server and waiting for an asynchronous server response.

Moving on to block the content management module accesses content on the content server using the authentication token. In block in some embodiments the content management module may access the user s profile information stored on the content server. By using the authentication token to access the content server the target computing device is not required to receive user credentials directly from the user or the mobile computing device .

In block the content management module processes the content from the content server . In block processing the content may include displaying the content on a display of the target computing device as with audiovisual content or interactive web content. In block processing the content may include completing a purchase transaction on the target computing device as with payment processing content. Blocks and are illustrated with hashed lines to indicate they are optional.

Referring now to in use the mobile computing device may execute a method to authenticate a user of the mobile computing device to a content server . The method begins with block in which the registration module registers with the authentication server . Registration may include establishing a user profile including user credentials such as a username and a password. In block in some embodiments the registration module may update the user s profile including updating the user s personal information.

In block the pairing module determines whether an interaction with the target computing device has occurred. If not the method loops back to block and repeats. When an interaction with the target computing device occurs the method advances to block in which the pairing module captures the pairing token presented by the target computing device . As described in more detail above in connection with blocks and of the method the pairing token may be embodied as any feature of the target computing device detectable by the mobile computing device using standard input methods. For example in some embodiments the mobile computing device may capture a two dimensional bar code such as a quick response QR code using the camera . Alternatively in other embodiments the mobile computing device may capture an audio signal using the audio sensor . In block the pairing module determines the session ID from the captured pairing token. That is the session ID may be embedded in or otherwise represented by the pairing token. As described above the session ID identifies a communication session between the target computing device and the content server and the pairing token is generated using the session ID.

In block the authentication module authenticates the user to the mobile computing device . That is the user of the mobile computing device inputs or otherwise supplies his or her user credentials to the mobile computing device . For example in block the user interface module may present an authentication user interface to the user. This authentication user interface may be a native application a web page a remote access application or other user interface. The authentication user interface may be provided by the authentication server or by the third party login server . In block the user credential module may collect user credentials of the user. The user credentials may be collected using the user interface module . In block in some embodiments the third party provider module may perform a login with the third party login server . In block the user interface module may allow the user to define access to his or her personal information. For example the user may allow or disallow access to his or her user profile. Alternatively the user may define an allowed level of access to the user s personal information e.g. how much and which type of personal information is accessible .

In block the authentication module determines whether or not the user has successfully authenticated to mobile computing device . If not the method loops back to block and awaits another interaction with the target device. If the user has successfully authenticated to the mobile computing device the method advances to block .

In block the authentication module authenticates the mobile computing device to the authentication server . To do so in block the session management module sends the session ID to the authentication server. In block the user credential module may send the user credentials to the authentication server . Alternatively in sub block the third party provider module may authenticate the user with the third party login server . The user credentials may be embodied as a username and a password or the user credentials may be a user identity provided by the third party login server .

In block the authentication module determines whether authentication with the authentication server was successful. If authentication was not successful the method loops back to block wherein the user may attempt to re authenticate. If authentication was successful the method advances to block .

In block the user interface module may indicate to the user that the authentication process was successful. By doing so the user is prompted to return to the target computing device . As discussed above in connection with upon successful authentication the target computing device will receive an authentication token from the authentication server and use the authentication token to access content on the content server .

Referring now to in use the authentication server may execute a method to authenticate a user of the mobile computing device to a content server . The method begins with block in which the authentication server waits for a registration request from the mobile computing device . Upon receiving a registration request the method advances to block where the registration module registers the mobile computing device with authentication server .

Following block some time may elapse as indicated by the broken line between blocks and . In block the authentication server waits for an authentication request received from mobile computing device . Upon receiving an authentication request the method advances to block .

In block the authentication module receives authentication data from the mobile computing device . In block the session management module receives the session ID. As described above the session ID identifies a content session established between the target computing device and the content server . In block the user credential module may receive the user credentials. The user credentials may be a username and a password or the user credentials may be a user identity provided by the third party login server . In block the third party provider module may receive a third party provider preference from the mobile computing device . The third party provider preference may identify the appropriate third party login server .

In block the authentication module authenticates the user as a function of the user credentials. In block the authentication module validates the user credentials. User credentials may be validated by confirming that the username and password received from the mobile computing device are correct such as by validating the username and password against a flat file or against a directory service such as LDAP ActiveDirectory or the like. Alternatively in block the third party provider module may authenticate the user with the third party login server .

In block the authentication module determines whether the user successfully authenticated. If not successfully authenticated the method may advance to optional block where the authentication server returns an error condition to the mobile computing device and then the method loops back to block to await another authentication request. If authentication was successful the method advances to block .

In block the token management module generates an authentication token. The authentication token is associated with the session ID. In some embodiments the authentication token may be a function of the session ID. For example the authentication token may be generated by cryptographically signing data including the session ID a random number to prevent replay attacks and additional context information. Any suitable cryptographic signature scheme may be used for example RSA DSA or ElGamal.

In block the token management module provides the authentication token to the target computing device . As described in more detail above the target computing device may poll the authentication server repeatedly until the authentication token becomes available following successful authentication of the user. Also as described in more detail above the target computing device may use the authentication token to access content on the content server .

Referring now to in use the content server may execute a method to authenticate a user of the mobile computing device to the content server . The method begins with block where the content server waits for a session request from the target computing device . Upon receiving a session request the method advances to block .

In block the session management module generates a session ID to identify the content session between the target computing device and the content server . In block the session management module provides the session ID to the target computing device . As discussed in more detail above the session ID is used to generate the pairing token passed from the target computing device to the mobile computing device and is in turn used by the mobile computing device to authenticate the user to the authentication server .

In block the content management module determines whether an authentication token has been received from the target computing device . If not the method continues to wait at block . If an authentication token is received the method advances to block .

In block the content management module provides content to the target computing device . As discussed above the target computing device uses the authentication token to access the content. The content may be supplied by the content database . As discussed above content may include interactive content media content payment processing content personal information about the user or other digital content.

While the disclosure has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description such an illustration and description is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character it being understood that only illustrative embodiments have been shown and described and that all changes and modifications consistent with the disclosure and recited claims are desired to be protected.

Illustrative examples of the devices systems and methods disclosed herein are provided below. An embodiment of the devices systems and methods may include any one or more and any combination of the examples described below.

Example 1 includes a computing device to authenticate a user to a content server. The computing device includes a pairing module to i generate a pairing token using a session ID received from the content server and ii present the pairing token to a mobile computing device controlled by the user to allow the user to authenticate to an authentication server an authentication module to receive an authentication token from the authentication server in response to successful authentication of the user by the mobile computing device and a content management module to access content on the content server using the authentication token.

Example 2 includes the subject matter of Example 1 and wherein to access content on the content server comprises to access user profile information of the user.

Example 3 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 and 2 and wherein the content management module is to process the content accessed from the content server.

Example 4 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 3 and wherein to process the content comprises to display the content accessed from the content server.

Example 5 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 4 and wherein to process the content comprises to complete a purchase transaction on the computing device.

Example 6 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 5 and further including a display wherein the pairing token comprises a two dimensional bar code and the pairing module is to present the pairing token by displaying the pairing token on the display of the computing device.

Example 7 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 6 and wherein the pairing token comprises a quick response QR code.

Example 8 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 7 and further including an audio device wherein the pairing token comprises an audio signal and the pairing module is to present the pairing token by playing the pairing token using the audio device of the computing device.

Example 9 includes a mobile computing device to authenticate a user to a content server. The mobile computing device includes a pairing module to i capture a pairing token presented by a target computing device and ii determine a session ID from the pairing token wherein the session ID identifies a communication session between the target computing device and the content server and an authentication module to i to collect user credentials provided by the user ii authenticate the user to the mobile computing device as a function of the user credentials and iii authenticate the mobile computing device to an authentication server using the session ID.

Example 10 includes the subject matter of Example 9 and wherein the authentication module is to authenticate the mobile computing device to the authentication server in response to successfully authenticating the user to the mobile computing device.

Example 11 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 9 and 10 and further including a camera wherein the pairing token comprises a two dimensional bar code and the pairing module is to capture the pairing token using the camera.

Example 12 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 9 11 and further including a camera wherein the pairing token comprises a quick response QR code and the pairing module is to capture the pairing token using the camera.

Example 13 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 9 12 further including an audio sensor wherein the pairing token comprises an audio signal and the pairing module is to capture the pairing token using the audio sensor.

Example 14 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 9 13 and wherein the user credentials comprise a username and a password.

Example 15 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 9 14 and further including a user interface module to i present a login user interface and ii receive user credentials provided by the user using the login user interface.

Example 16 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 9 15 and further including a user interface module to i receive a login user interface from a third party login server ii present the login user interface to the user and iii receive user credentials provided by the user using the login user interface.

Example 17 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 9 16 and further including a user interface module to present a user interface to the user wherein the user interface is to allow the user to define a level of access to personal information of the user stored on the content server.

Example 18 includes an authentication server to authenticate a user of a mobile computing device to a content server. The authentication server includes an authentication module to i receive a session ID from the mobile computing device wherein the session ID identifies a communication session between the content server and a target computing device ii receive user credentials of the user of the mobile computing device and iii authenticate the user as a function of the user credentials and a token management module to generate an authentication token associated with the session ID in response to the user being successfully authenticated.

Example 19 includes the subject matter of Example 18 and wherein the user credentials comprise a username and a password.

Example 20 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 18 and 19 and wherein the authentication module is to receive user credentials of the user from the mobile computing device.

Example 21 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 18 20 and wherein the authentication module is to validate the user credentials.

Example 22 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 18 21 and wherein the authentication module is to authenticate the user credentials using a third party login server.

Example 23 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 18 22 and wherein the token management module is to generate an authentication token as a function of the session ID.

Example 24 includes a method to authenticate a user of a mobile computing device to a content server. The method includes generating on a target computing device a pairing token using a session ID received from the content server wherein the session ID identifies a communication session between the target computing device and the content server presenting from the target computing device the pairing token to the mobile computing device receiving on the target computing device an authentication token from an authentication server in response to successful authentication of the user by the mobile computing device and accessing with the target computing device content on the content server using the authentication token.

Example 25 includes the subject matter of Example 24 and wherein accessing content on the content server comprises accessing user profile information stored on the content server.

Example 26 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 24 and 25 and further including processing on the target computing device the content accessed on the content server.

Example 27 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 24 26 and wherein processing the content comprises displaying on the target computing device the content accessed on the content server.

Example 28 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 24 27 and wherein processing the content comprises completing a purchase transaction on the target computing device.

Example 29 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 24 28 and wherein presenting the pairing token comprises displaying a two dimensional bar code on a display of the target computing device.

Example 30 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 24 29 and wherein presenting the pairing token comprises displaying a quick response QR code on a display of the target computing device.

Example 31 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 24 30 and wherein presenting the pairing token comprises playing an audio signal using an audio device of the target computing device.

Example 32 includes a device comprising a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the device to perform the method of any of Examples 24 31.

Example 33 includes one or more machine readable storage media comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in a device performing the method of any of Examples 24 31.

Example 34 includes a method to authenticate a user of a mobile computing device to a content server. The method includes capturing on the mobile computing device a pairing token presented by a target computing device determining on the mobile computing device a session ID from the pairing token wherein the session ID identifies a communication session between the target computing device and the content server authenticating the user to the mobile computing device by collecting user credentials on the mobile computing device and authenticating the mobile computing device to an authentication server using the session ID.

Example 35 includes the subject matter of Example 34 and wherein capturing the pairing token comprises capturing a two dimensional bar code using a camera of the mobile computing device.

Example 36 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 34 and 35 and wherein capturing the pairing token comprises capturing a quick response QR code using a camera of the mobile computing device.

Example 37 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 34 36 and wherein capturing the pairing token comprises capturing an audio signal using an audio sensor of the mobile computing device.

Example 38 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 34 37 and wherein collecting user credentials comprises collecting a username and a password.

Example 39 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 34 38 and wherein collecting user credentials comprises presenting on the mobile computing device a login user interface and receiving with the mobile computing device the user credentials using the login user interface.

Example 40 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 34 39 and wherein collecting user credentials comprises receiving on the mobile computing device a login user interface provided by a third party login server presenting on the mobile computing device the login user interface and receiving with the mobile computing device the user credentials using the login user interface.

Example 41 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 34 40 and further including presenting on the mobile computing device a user interface and allowing with the user interface the user to define a level of access to personal information of the user stored on the content server.

Example 42 includes a device comprising a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the device to perform the method of any of Examples 34 41.

Example 43 includes one or more machine readable storage media comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in a device performing the method of any of Examples 34 41.

Example 44 includes a method for an authentication server to authenticate a user of a mobile computing device to a content server the method comprising receiving on the authentication server a session ID from the mobile computing device wherein the session ID identifies a communication session between the target computing device and the content server receiving on the authentication server user credentials of the user of the mobile computing device authenticating on the authentication server the user as a function of the user credentials and generating on the authentication server an authentication token associated with the session ID in response to successfully authenticating the user.

Example 45 includes the subject matter of Example 44 and wherein receiving the user credentials comprises receiving a username and a password.

Example 46 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 44 and 45 and wherein receiving the user credentials comprises receiving the user credentials from the mobile computing device.

Example 47 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 44 46 and further including validating the user credentials on the authentication server.

Example 48 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 44 47 and wherein authenticating the user comprises authenticating the user using a third party login server.

Example 49 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 44 48 and wherein generating the authentication token comprises generating the authentication token as a function of the session ID.

Example 50 includes a device comprising a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the device to perform the method of any of Examples 44 49.

Example 51 includes one or more machine readable storage media comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in a device performing the method of any of Examples 44 49.

