---

title: Method of call forwarding between devices
abstract: An electronic device and method are disclosed, including a first communication module configured to perform a cellular communication, a second communication module configured to perform a communication to connect the electronic device to an external electronic device, and at least one processor electrically connected to the first and second communication modules, executing the method, which includes activating the first communication module in response to detecting a preset condition, and transmitting a signal requesting call forwarding via the first communication module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571658&OS=09571658&RS=09571658
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09571658
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150320
---
This application claims priority to Korean patent applications No. 10 2014 0033052 filed on Mar. 20 2014 and No. 10 2014 0111107 filed on Aug. 25 2014 the disclosures of both being hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to a method and system for call forwarding between electronic devices.

A call forwarding service enables an incoming call or a received message to be forwarded to another electronic device that a user has specified in advance allowing the user to receive it via the designated electronic device. In some cases the user s pre specified electronic device may be owned by another user.

A One Person Multi Device OPMD environment involves one user utilizing several devices such as wired and wireless telephones in the home computers laptops portable smart phones and smart pads.

Implementing the above described call forwarding may thus provide convenience to a user in the OPMD environment.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to call and or a message forwarding between a plurality of electronic devices and providing the same for each of the electronic devices.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device is disclosed including a first communication module configured to perform cellular communication a second communication module configured to communicatively connect the electronic device to an external electronic device and at least one processor electrically connected to the first and second communication modules. The processor activates the first communication module in response to detecting a preset condition and transmits via the first communication module a signal requesting call forwarding with the external electronic device.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device is disclosed including a first communication module configured to perform cellular communication a second communication module configured to perform a communicatively connect the electronic device to an external electronic device and at least one processor electrically connected to the first and second communication modules and configured to if the electronic device is communicatively electrically connected to the external electronic device receive via the first communication module a voice call signal or message from a communication carrier.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure a call forwarding method for an electronic device is disclosed including detecting a preset condition including at least one of disconnection of the electronic device with an external electronic device and connection between the electronic device with an electronic management server and in response to detecting a preset condition transmitting a signal requesting call forwarding to a communication carrier.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed with reference to the accompanying drawings. Thus it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited to specific embodiments and covers the various modifications equivalents and or alternatives of the present disclosure. With respect to the descriptions of the drawings like reference numerals refer to like elements.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure expression include may include comprise or may comprise indicates the presence of a corresponding feature for example numerical values functions operations and components such as parts and does not exclude the presence of an additional feature.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure expression A or B at least one of A or and B or one or more of A or and B may include all possible combinations of items listed together. For example A or B at least one of A and B or at least one of A or B may refer to all 1 including at least one A 2 including at least one B or 3 including at least one A and at least one B.

Expressions such as 1st 2nd first second and the like used herein may refer to modifying various different elements of various embodiments regardless of the order and priority but do not limit the elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish one element from another element. For instance a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices regardless of the order or importance. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component and vice versa without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure it will be understood that when a component for example a first component is referred to as being operatively or communicatively coupled with to or connected to another component for example a second component the component can be directly connected to the other component or connected through another component for example a third component . In various embodiments of the present disclosure it will be understood that when a component for example a first component is referred to as being directly connected to or directly access another component for example a second component another component for example a third component does not exist between the component for example the first component and the other component for example the second component .

Expression configured to used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may be interchangeably used with suitable for having the capacity to designed to adapted to made to or capable of according to a situation for example. The term configured to may not necessarily mean specifically designed to in terms of hardware. Instead expression a device configured to in some situations may mean that the device and another device or part are capable of . For example a processor configured or set to perform A B and C in a phrase may mean a dedicated processor for example an embedded processor for performing a corresponding operation or a generic purpose processor for example a CPU or application processor for performing corresponding operations by executing at least one software program stored in a memory device.

Terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are used to describe specific embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of other embodiments. The terms of a singular form may include plural forms unless they have a clearly different meaning in the context. Unless otherwise defined herein all the terms used herein which include technical or scientific terms may have the same meaning that is generally understood by a person skilled in the art. In general the terms defined in the dictionary should be considered to have the same or similar meaning as the contextual meaning of the related art and unless clearly defined herein should not be understood abnormally or as having an excessively formal meaning. In any cases even the terms defined in this specification cannot be interpreted as excluding embodiments of the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be an electronic device supporting call forwarding service to be described with reference to . For instance electronic devices may include at least one of smartphones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video phones electronic book e book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers workstations servers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia player PMPs MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras and wearable devices for example smart glasses head mounted devices HMDs electronic garments electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic appcessories electronic tattoos smart mirrors and a smart watches .

In various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a smart home appliance supporting call forwarding service. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions digital video disk DVD players audios refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwave ovens washing machines air cleaners set top boxes home automation control panels security control panels TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles for example Xbox and PlayStation electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders and electronic picture frames.

According to some embodiments an electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices supporting call forwarding service for example various portable measurement devices for example glucometers heart rate meters blood pressure meters temperature meters etc. magnetic resonance angiography MRA devices magnetic resonance imaging MRI devices computed tomography CT devices medical imaging devices ultrasonic devices etc. navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices marine electronic equipment for example marine navigation systems gyro compasses etc. avionics security equipment vehicle head units industrial or household robots financial institutions automatic teller s machines ATMs stores point of sales POS or internet of things for example bulbs various sensors electric or gas meters sprinkler systems fire alarms thermostats street lights toasters exercise equipment hot water tanks heaters boilers etc. .

In various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include at least one of part of furniture or buildings structures supporting call forwarding service electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors and various measuring instruments for example water electricity gas or radio signal measuring instruments . In various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be one of the above mentioned various devices or a combination thereof.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a flexible electronic device supporting call forwarding service.

Additionally an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above mentioned devices and may include a new kind of an electronic device according to the technology development.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. In this specification the term user may refer to a person using an electronic device or a device using an electronic device for example an artificial intelligent electronic device .

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments will be described in more detail with reference to . The term user in various embodiments may refer to a person using an electronic device or a device using an electronic device for example an artificial intelligent electronic device .

The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface . In various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may omit at least one of the components or may further include another component.

The bus for example may include a circuit connecting the components to and delivering communication signals for example a control message and or data therebetween.

The processor may include one or more of a central processing unit CPU an application processor AP or a communication processor CP . The processor for example may perform an operation or data processing on control and or communication of at least another component of the electronic device .

The memory may include volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory for example may store commands or data relating to at least another component of the electronic device . According to an embodiment the memory may store software and or a program . The program for example may include a kernel middleware an application programming interface API and or an application program or application . At least part of the kernel the middleware or the API may be called operating system OS .

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory used for performing operations or functions implemented by the other programs for example the middleware the API or the application program . Additionally the kernel may provide an interface for controlling or managing system resources by accessing an individual component of the electronic device from the middleware the API or the application program .

The middleware for example may serve as an intermediary role for exchanging data between the API or the application program and the kernel through communication. Additionally in relation to job requests received from the application program the middleware may perform a control for example scheduling or load balancing for the job requests by using a method of assigning a priority for using a system resource for example the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one application among the application programs .

The API as an interface through which the application controls a function provided from the kernel or the middleware for example may include at least one interface or function for example an instruction for file control window control image processing or character control.

The input output interface for example may serve as the role of an interface for delivering commands or data inputted from a user or another external device to another component s of the electronic device . Additionally the input output interface may output commands or data inputted from another component s of the electronic device to a user or another external device.

The display for example may include a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic light emitting diode OLED display a microelectromechanical systems MEMS display or an electronic paper display. The display for example may display various contents for example Texts images videos icons or symbols to a user. The display may include a touch screen for example and receive touch gesture proximity or hovering inputs by using an electronic pen or a user s body part.

The communication interface for example may set a communication between the electronic device and an external device for example a first external electronic device a second external electronic device or a server . For example the communication interface may communicate with the external device for example the second external electronic device or the server in connection to the network through wireless communication or wired communication.

The wireless communication for example may use at least one of LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM as a cellular communication protocol. The wired communication for example may include at least one of universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 and plain old telephone service POTS . The network may include at least one of telecommunications networks such as computer network for example LAN or WAN internet and telephone network.

Each of the first and second external electronic devices and may be the same or different type of the electronic device . According to an embodiment the server may include a group of one or more servers.

According to various embodiments all or part of operations executed in the electronic device may be executed by another or a plurality of electronic devices for example the electronic device or or the server . According to an embodiment when the electronic device is utilized to perform a function or service automatically or at the request instead of performing the function or service by the electronic device or additionally the electronic device may request at least part of a function relating thereto from another device for example the electronic device or or the server . The other electronic device for example the electronic device or or the server may perform the requested function or an additional function and may deliver its result to the electronic device . The electronic device may provide the requested function or service by processing the received result as it is or additionally. For this for example cloud computing distributed computing or client server computing techniques may be used.

For example in the description for the electronic device may include the bus the processor the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface . The communication interface may include a first communication module for performing cellular communication and data communication and a second communication module communicable with an external device. Additionally on the basis of a specified condition the processor may support a service for transmitting a signal for requesting call forwarding to the outside by using one communication module for example the first communication module.

The AP for example may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP and also may perform various data processing and operations by executing an operating system or an application program. The AP may be implemented with a system on chip SoC for example. According to an embodiment the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU and or an image signal processor. The AP may include at least part for example a cellular module of the components shown in . The AP may load commands or data received from at least of other components for example nonvolatile memory into volatile memory and process them and may store various data in a nonvolatile memory.

The communication module may have the same or similar configuration to the communication interface of . The communication module for example may include a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module for example may provide voice call video call SMS or internet service through a communication network. According to an embodiment the cellular module may identify and authenticate an electronic device in a communication network by using a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least part of a function that the AP provides. According to an embodiment the cellular module may further include a communication processor CP .

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing data transmitted received through a corresponding module. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least part for example more than two of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one integrated chip IC or an IC package.

The RF module for example may transmit receive a communication signal for example an RF signal . The RF module for example may include a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA or an antenna. According to another embodiment at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal through an additional RF module.

The SIM card for example may include a card including a subscriber identification module and or an embedded SIM and also may include unique identification information for example an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory for example may include at least one of a volatile memory for example dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and non volatile memory for example one time programmable ROM OTPROM programmable ROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM flash memory for example NAND flash memory and NOR flash memory hard drive and solid state drive SSD .

The external memory may further include flash drive for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro SD mini SD extreme digital xD or memorystick. The external memory may be functionally and or physically connected to the electronic device through various interfaces.

The sensor module for example measures physical quantities or detects an operating state of the electronic device thereby converting the measured or detected information into electrical signals. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example a red green blue RGB sensor a biological sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an ultra violet UV sensor M. Additionally alternately the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an infra red IR sensor an iris sensor and or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor therein. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device as part of at least the AP may further include a processor configured to control the sensor module and while the AP is in a sleep state may control the sensor module .

The input device for example may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel for example may use at least one of capacitive resistive infrared and ultrasonic methods. Additionally the touch panel may further include a control circuit. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer to provide a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor for example may include a sheet for recognition that is part of a touch panel or additional. The key may include a physical button a touch key an optical key or a keypad for example. The ultrasonic input device may detect ultrasonic waves through a microphone for example a microphone to check data corresponding to the detected ultrasonic waves.

The display for example the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may include the same or similar configuration to the display of . The panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable for example. The panel and the touch panel may be configured with one module. The hologram may show three dimensional images in the air by using the interference of light. The projector may display an image by projecting light on a screen. The screen for example may be placed inside or outside the electronic device. According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature sub for example. The interface may be included in the communication interface shown in for example. Additionally alternately the interface may include a mobile high definition link MHL interface a secure Digital SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module for example may convert sound into electrical signals and convert electrical signals into sounds. At least some components of the audio module may be included in the input output interface shown in for example. The audio module may process sound information inputted outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone .

The camera module as a device for capturing a still image and a video may include at least one image sensor for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an image signal processor ISP or a flash for example an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module for example may manage the power of the electronic device. According to an embodiment the power management module may include a power management IC PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge for example. The PMIC may have a wired and or wireless charging method. The wireless charging method for example may include a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method and may further include an additional circuit for wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonant circuit or a rectifier circuit. The battery gauge may measure the remaining amount of the battery or a voltage current or temperature of the battery during charging. The battery for example may include a rechargeable battery and or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or part thereof for example the AP for example a booting state a message state or a charging state. The motor may convert electrical signals into mechanical vibration and may generate a vibration or haptic effect. Although not shown in the drawings the electronic device may include a processing device for example a GPU for mobile TV support. A processing device for mobile TV support may process media data according to the standards such as digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the above mentioned components of the electronic device may be configured with at least one component and the name of a corresponding component may vary according to the kind of an electronic device. In various embodiments an electronic device may be configured including at least one of the above mentioned components or another component or not including some of the above mentioned components. Additionally some of components in an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are configured as one entity so that functions of previous corresponding components are performed identically.

The program module may include a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and or an application . At least part of the program module may be preloaded on an electronic device or may be downloaded from a server for example .

The kernel for example the kernel of for example may include a system resource manager or a device driver . The system resource manager may perform the control allocation or retrieval of a system resource. According to an embodiment the system resource manager may include a process management unit a memory management unit or a file system management unit. The device driver for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a sharing memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver an audio driver or an inter process communication IPC driver.

The middleware for example may provide a function that the application utilizes commonly or may provide various functions to the application through the API in order to allow the application to efficiently use a limited system resource inside the electronic device. According to an embodiment the middleware for example the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager .

The runtime library for example may include a library module that a complier uses to add a new function through a programming language while the application is running. The runtime library may perform a function on input output management memory management or an arithmetic function.

The application manager for example may mange the life cycle of at least one application among the applications . The window manager may manage a GUI resource used in a screen. The multimedia manager may recognize a format for playing various media files and may encode or decode a media file by using the codec corresponding to a corresponding format. The resource manager may manage a resource such as a source code a memory or a storage space of at least any one of the applications .

The power manager for example may operate together with a basic input output system BIOS to manage the battery or power and may provide power information utilized for an operation of the electronic device. The database manager may create search or modify a database used in at least one application among the applications . The package manager may manage the installation or update of an application distributed in a package file format.

The connectivity manger may manage a wireless connection such as WiFi or Bluetooth. The notification manager may display or notify an event such as arrival messages appointments and proximity alerts. The location manager may manage location information on an electronic device. The graphic manager may manage a graphic effect to be provided to a user or a user interface relating thereto. The security manager may provide various security functions utilized for system security or user authentication. According to an embodiment when an electronic device for example the electronic device includes a phone function the middleware may further include a telephony manager for managing a voice or video call function of the electronic device.

The middleware may include a middleware module for forming a combination of various functions of the above mentioned components. The middleware may provide a module specialized for each type of OS to provide differentiated functions. Additionally the middleware may delete part of existing components or add new components dynamically.

The API for example the API for example as a set of API programming functions may be provided as another configuration according to OS. For example in the case of android or iOS one API set may be provided for each platform and in the case Tizen at least two API sets may be provided for each platform.

The application for example the application program for example may include at least one application for providing functions such as a home a dialer an SMS MMS an instant message a browser a camera an alarm a contact a voice dial an e mail a calendar a media player an album a clock health care for example measure an exercise amount or blood sugar or environmental information provision for example provide air pressure humidity or temperature information .

According to an embodiment the application may include an application hereinafter referred to as information exchange application for supporting information exchange between the electronic device for example the electronic device and an external electronic device for example the electronic device or . The information exchange application for example may include a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may have a function for relaying to an external electronic device for example the electronic device or notification information occurring from another application for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application or an environmental information application of the electronic device. Additionally the notification relay application may receive notification information from an external electronic device and may then provide the received notification information to a user. The device management application for example may manage for example install delete or update at least one function turn on turn off of the external electronic device itself or some components or the brightness or resolution adjustment of a display of an external electronic device for example the electronic device communicating with the electronic device an application operating in the external electronic device or a service for example call service or message service provided from the external device.

According to an embodiment the application may include a specified application for example a health care application according to the property for example as the property of an electronic device when the type of the electronic device is a mobile medical device of the external electronic device for example the electronic device or . According to an embodiment the application may include an application received from an external electronic device for example the server or the electronic device or . According to an embodiment the application may include a preloaded application or a third party application downloadable from a server. The names of components in the program module according to the shown embodiment may vary depending on the type of OS.

According to various embodiments at least part of the program module may be implemented with software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. At least part of the programming module for example may be implemented for example executed by a processor for example the AP . At least part of the programming module may include a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process to perform at least one function for example.

Referring to the call forwarding system may include a first electronic device a second electronic device an electronic device management server a communication carrier server and a network . However such the call forwarding system of is just one embodiment of the present disclosure and thus the present disclosure is not interpreted as limited through . For example although the electronic device management server is illustrated as an independent device it may be included in the communication carrier server that is a server managed by a carrier for example KT SKT LGT Verizon and AT T etc. . The carrier server is now to be referred to as a communication carrier .

As described above the first electronic device and the second electronic device may be one of various kinds of electronic devices having a communication function. For example the first electronic device may be a handheld device such as a smartphone or a smart pad and the second electronic device may be a wearable device such as a smart watch or smart glasses. Hereinafter it will be assumed that the first electronic device is a smartphone handheld device and the second electronic device is a smart watch wearable device.

The first electronic device and the second electronic device may be utilized by the same user. For example the first electronic device and the second electronic device may both be owned by one user. In this case an independent phone number may be assigned to each of the first electronic device and the second electronic device . Accordingly the first electronic device and the second electronic device may execute a call with or exchange a message with another electronic device independently. A phone number at this point is assigned from the carrier and may be different from an IP address utilized for transmitting and receiving IP based Voice over Internet Protocol VOIP or IP based instant message electronic device identifier ID or user identifier ID of an electronic device.

The first electronic device and the second electronic device may be used by being mutually paired with one another. The pairing method may include various methods such as Bluetooth BT Near Field communication NFC wireless fidelity WiFi and WiFi direct. Hereinafter pairing using BT will be described as an example.

The first electronic device and the second electronic device may have mutual complementary functions when they are paired and utilized together. A user may pair the first electronic device and the second electronic device in a normal situation and then use them.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure since the first electronic device and the second electronic device are owned by the same user when the user leaves their home for example the user may carry only one electronic device for example the second electronic device of the first electronic device and the second electronic device . As described above since an independent phone number is assigned to each of the first electronic device and the second electronic device each may process an outgoing call or an incoming call and transmit and or receive a message independently. However in this case a user cannot check calls and or messages received by the first electronic device when leaving the home as the first electronic device was left in the house as a reception device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device left in the house may be set to forward calls and or messages received by the first electronic device to the second electronic device which is carried by a user. However in this case when the first electronic device is not connected to a free network such as WiFi but rather to cellular data of 3G or 4G excessive charges may be added to the user s monthly charges.

Accordingly according to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a specified condition is satisfied the first electronic device or the second electronic device may request call forwarding from the carrier in order to allow the second electronic device to receive a call and or message targeting the first electronic device as a reception device.

For example when a BT pairing between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is released the first electronic device or the second electronic device may detect the BT pairing release and may request the start of call forwarding service from the carrier .

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure when a BT pairing between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is released the second electronic device may transmit a call forwarding request to the first electronic device and the first electronic device may transmit the call forwarding request to the carrier thereby requesting the start of call forwarding service.

The second electronic device may in some embodiments directly transmit the call forwarding request to the first electronic device but in other embodiments the second electronic device may first establish a communication channel with the first electronic device through the electronic device management server and then the second electronic device may transmit the call forwarding request to the first electronic device through the established communication channel.

The electronic device management server may establish a session between the first electronic device and the second electronic device . For example the electronic device management server may receive a request for connection to the second electronic device from the first electronic device or may receive a request for connection to the first electronic device from the second electronic device to establish the session. The first electronic device and the second electronic device may exchange or collect information for example each identification information and phone number etc. for each other during pairing. Accordingly when the pairing is released the first electronic device or the second electronic device may request the establishment of the session from the electronic device management server by using the exchanged or collected information.

The electronic device management server may check e.g. detect a communication state of the first electronic device and or the second electronic device . For example the electronic device management server may check the communication state of the first electronic device and or the second electronic device by using a network ping and checking of the communication state may be performed repeatedly by a specified time unit. For example when the network ping is received at a faster period than a predetermined period the electronic device management server may determine that the first electronic device and or the second electronic device are is in a communicable state. Unlike this when the network ping is received at a slower period than a predetermined period the electronic device management server may determine that the first electronic device and or the second electronic device are is in a communication disabled state.

If it is determined that the first electronic device is in a communication disabled state the electronic device management server may notify the second electronic device that the first electronic device is in a communication disabled state. Similarly if it is determined that the second electronic device is in a communication disabled state the electronic device management server may notify the first electronic device that the second electronic device is in a communication disabled state. In this case the first electronic device may request the release of a call forwarding service set the second electronic device as a target device from the carrier .

The electronic device management server may manage each identification information on the first electronic device and or the second electronic device by matching each identification information with the first electronic device and or the second electronic device in order for the management of the first electronic device and or the second electronic device . The identification information may be the unique identifier ID of an electronic device a phone number that the carrier assigns ICCID information or IMSI information.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device management server may synchronize the first electronic device with the second electronic device on a call message and event history of each of the first electronic device and the second electronic device .

The carrier represents a server managed by a communication carrier and may receive from the first electronic device or the second electronic device the request of call forwarding for example transmits to the second electronic device a call and or message that targets the first electronic device as a reception device that targets the second electronic device as a target device and may perform the call forwarding in response to this.

The carrier may use information on the first electronic device and the second electronic device in order to perform the call forwarding. For example the carrier may read information of a SIM card equipped in the first electronic device and the second electronic device . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the SIM card may include identification information such as Mobile Country Code MCC Mobile Network Code MNC and Group Identifier GID . Herein the MCC may be used to identify the country where the electronic device is used and the MNC may be used to identify a specific network in the identified country. Additionally the GID may be used to identify the group of a specific electronic device among electronic devices having the same MCC and MNC. Therefore the carrier may determine whether the first electronic device and the second electronic device are electronic devices that are call forwarding targets for each other by using at least one of the MCC MNC and GID included in the SIM card of each of the first electronic device and the second electronic device . For example when it is determined that the first electronic device and the second electronic device are matched to one user account the carrier may provide call forwarding service.

Similarly when the carrier receives a release request for the call forwarding service that is set the second electronic device as a target device from the first electronic device or the second electronic device in response to this the carrier may release the set call forwarding with respect to the first electronic device and the second electronic device .

In the above it is assumed that an independent phone number is assigned to each of the first electronic device and the second electronic device . Hereinafter as various embodiments of the present disclosure the call forwarding system will be described by using the case that the first electronic device and the second electronic device has one common phone number as one example. For example the first electronic device and the second electronic device may have a relationship with different IMSI information but the same mobile station international ISDN number MSISDN .

The carrier may manage the first electronic device and the second electronic device with a multi SIM concept using a main SIM and a sub SIM. The main SIM allows an electronic device to perform data communication and perform the transmission reception of a text message and the incoming outgoing of a call. On the other hand the sub SIM is limited to at least part of functions of the main SIM and may allow an electronic device to perform only data communication only the incoming outgoing of a call or only the transmission reception of a text message. However since a function for supporting the main SIM and the sub SIM may vary according to each carrier various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the described embodiment. Hereinafter it will be described that the sub SIM performs only a data communication function.

It is assumed that the first electronic device uses the main SIM and the second electronic device uses the sub SIM. The main SIM and the sub SIM are not a role divided physical configuration and are determined according to the property that the carrier assigns. Due to the above mentioned pairing release between the first electronic device and the second electronic device the carrier may receive a signal for requesting call forwarding from the first electronic device or the second electronic device . In this case the carrier may change the main SIM property assigned to the first electronic device into the sub SIM property and may change the sub SIM property assigned to the second electronic device into the main SIM property. With this an incoming call received from the outside may be transmitted to the second electronic device instead of the first electronic device . Alternatively the carrier may temporarily assign the role of the main SIM to the sub SIM property assigned to the second electronic device .

The first electronic device the second electronic device the electronic device management server and the carrier in the call forwarding system may be connected to each other through the network . At this point the network means an information exchange available connection structure between each of mutual nodes such as terminals and servers and may include various kinds of communication methods supported by the communication interface of and or the communication module of .

Hereinafter the first electronic device and the second electronic device included in the call forwarding system of will be described in more detail.

The first communication module or the second communication module for example may include at least the same or similar configuration to the communication interface shown in .

The first communication module may perform cellular communication and or data communication. For example the first communication module may include a circuit switching module a CS module for performing the cellular communication and a packet switching module a PS module for performing the data communication.

The second communication module may perform a communication to connect the second electronic device with the first electronic device . The communication for example may be a short range communication including at least one of BT ZigBee NFC WiFi direct and radio frequency identification RFID .

Hereinafter the case that the second communication module is connected to e.g. paired with the first electronic device by using BT will be described as an example. Since the BT is limited in terms of distance when the first electronic device and the second electronic device are distanced more than a predetermined or threshold distance from each other the pairing may be broken or otherwise released. Additionally even when the first electronic device and the second electronic device are within the predetermined distance the pairing may be released according to a network state or interference from a building or structure.

The processor for example may include at least the same or similar configuration to the processor shown in .

The processor may generate a signal for requesting call forwarding on the basis of or in response to detecting a specified condition. Additionally the processor may transmit the generated signal for requesting call forwarding to the carrier by using the first communication module . However as described above the generated signal for requesting call forwarding may be directly transmitted from the second electronic device to the carrier but according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the generated signal for requesting call forwarding may be transmitted to the carrier through the first electronic device . Further the generated signal for requesting call forwarding may be directly transmitted from the second electronic device to the first electronic device but may be transmitted to the first electronic device through the electronic device management sever .

A specified condition for generating the signal for requesting call forwarding for example may include the case in which pairing with the first electronic device is released e.g. communication is terminated or broken . One example may include the situation where two devices are separated by more than predetermined distance spaced from each other because a user leaves the first electronic device in the home and leaves the home with only the second electronic device .

Additionally the specified condition may include the case where the second electronic device is connected to the electronic device management sever through the first communication module . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the pairing with the first electronic device is released the second electronic device may be connected to the electronic device management server . However as soon as the pairing with the first electronic device is released the second electronic device may not be connected to the electronic device management sever e.g. disconnected and when the pairing release is maintained for a specified time the second electronic device may be connected to the electronic device management server . For example call forwarding may be unnecessary when a user leaves the first electronic device in a room and goes to a living room for a short time with only the second electronic device . Additionally even when the first electronic device and the second electronic device are close to each other if a network environment is temporarily poor pairing may be released. In this case since it is possible that the network environment will be quickly restored and pairing restored according to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the pairing is not restored for a specified time after the pairing is released the call forwarding may be established.

According to various embodiments the specified condition may include a case of receiving a user input for generating a signal for requesting the call forwarding through a call forwarding UI.

As the above mentioned condition the call forwarding UI may be displayed on a screen of the second electronic device when the pairing with the first electronic device is released or when the second electronic device is connected to the electronic device management server . In this case when a user wants call forwarding the call forwarding may be established by receiving a user input. Accordingly automatic call forwarding may be prevented when a user does not want call forwarding for example when a network state is not good for a time period or when the first electronic device and the second electronic device are separated from each other for only a brief moment. Additionally the call forwarding UI may be displayed on the screen of the second electronic device through a user input for calling the call forwarding UI. That is when a user wants to use call forwarding in addition to the case that the pairing with the first electronic device is released or the case that the second electronic device is connected to the electronic device management sever the second electronic device may allow a user to select whether to made the call forwarding by displaying the call forwarding UI.

When the pairing between the second electronic device and the first electronic device is released or when the second electronic device is connected to the electronic device management server a user may set not to use call forwarding in the call forwarding UI. When pairing is released disconnected a user may use the second electronic device without call forwarding. When call forwarding is desired a user may use the call forwarding service by displaying the call forwarding UI on the screen of the second electronic device through a user input.

When the call forwarding service is utilized instead of the first electronic device the first communication module may receive a voice call signal or message that targets the first electronic device as a reception device from the carrier .

The second electronic device may further include a sensor e.g. as part of the sensor module for detecting a human body. The processor may activate the first communication module or may generate a signal for requesting call forwarding only when a human body is detected. For example the reason is that when a user carries out only the first electronic device instead of the second electronic device call forwarding is not supposed to be made.

However according to various embodiments of the present disclosure even when the human body user is detected whether to make call forwarding may be adaptively determined according to a wearing state of the second electronic device . For example the processor may not perform call forwarding when a user exercising or sleeping while wearing the second electronic device .

The first communication module of the second electronic device may be in an activated state at all times. However according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication module may be in a deactivated state in order to allow for low power consumption. In this case the first communication module may be activated in order for performing the above mentioned call forwarding. An activation operation of the first communication module may be performed similar to a generation operation of a signal requesting call forwarding.

For example when a connection with the first electronic device is terminated e.g. by disconnection or when the second electronic device is connected to the electronic device management server through the first communication module or when a user input requesting the activation of the first communication module is received through a first communication module activation UI the processor may activate the first communication module .

However according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the call forwarding request and the activation of the first communication module correspond to each other and they may be performed simultaneously.

As mentioned above the first communication module may include the CS module and the PS module and an operation for activating the first communication module may including activating at least one of the CS module and the PS module . For example the processor may activate both the CS module and the PS module . However according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may also activate only the CS module . If the CS module is in an activated state already an operation for activating the first communication module may be an operation for activating the PS module .

The processor may generate a signal for requesting the release of call forwarding in order to transmit a voice call signal or message to the first electronic device . During the call forwarding service a user cannot directly make a call or transmit a message to the first electronic device . Accordingly in order to directly make a call or transmit a message to the first electronic device the call forwarding service needs to be released so a user may call the call forwarding UI and may generate a signal for requesting release of call forwarding based on a user input for requesting release of call forwarding. The generated signal for requesting release of call forwarding may be transmitted to the carrier through the first communication module . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the generated signal for requesting release of call forwarding may be directly transmitted to the carrier or may be transmitted to the carrier through the first electronic device or through the electronic device management sever .

Additionally a release operation for the call forwarding service may be performed in a procedure which is essentially the reverse of an operation for starting the call forwarding service. For example during the use of call forwarding service when the second electronic device is connected to the first electronic device or when a connection with the electronic device management server is disconnected the call forwarding service may be released.

A signal for requesting call forwarding or a signal requesting the release of call forwarding may be in one format of a voice message a text message a multimedia message a Mobile Application Part MAP message and an Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD message.

During the utilization of the call forwarding service the processor may display an indicator notifying a user that the call forwarding service is active on a screen. Similarly while the first communication module activated the processor may display an indicator for notifying that the first communication module is in activation on the screen.

The memory may store data. The memory for example may include at least the same or similar configuration to the memory shown in . At this point the data stored in the memory may include data inputted and outputted between each component inside the second electronic device and may include data inputted and outputted between the second electronic device and components outside the second electronic device . For example the memory may store information on the first electronic device which is received by the second communication module . An embodiment of such the memory may include hard disk drive ROM RAM flash memory and a memory card inside or outside the second electronic device .

The content mentioned with reference to may be applied to the above mentioned multi SIM concept as another embodiment of the present disclosure. For example in addition to the case that the pairing between the second electronic device and the first electronic device is released when the second electronic device is connected to the electronic device management server and a user input for generating a signal for requesting the call forwarding is received through a call forwarding UI the sub SIM property assigned to the second electronic device may change into the main SIM property by the carrier .

When the call forwarding is released it may be similarly applied. For example during the use of call forwarding service when pairing with the first electronic device is present or when the connection with the electronic device management server is disconnected or when a user input for generating a signal for requesting the release of the call forwarding service is received the main SIM property assigned to the second electronic device may change into the sub SIM property by the carrier .

Those skilled in the art understand enough that the first communication module the second communication module the processor and the memory may be separated and implemented or at least one of them is integrated and implemented.

The first communication module or the second communication module for example may include at least the same or similar configuration to the communication interface shown in .

The first communication module may perform cellular communication and data communication. Additionally the second communication module may perform a communication to connect to the second electronic device . As mentioned with reference to the first electronic device and the second electronic device are paired mutually by using a short range communication such as BT.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure while a connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is maintained the first communication module may receive a voice call signal or a message that directed to the first electronic device as a reception device from the carrier . However even while a connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is maintained if a call forwarding service using the second electronic device as a target device is in use a voice call signal or message using the first electronic device as a reception device may be received by the second electronic device .

The processor for example may include at least the same or similar configuration to the processor shown in .

The processor may generate a signal for requesting call forwarding when a connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is terminated or disconnected. The processor may transmit the generated signal for requesting call forwarding to the carrier using the first communication module . Alternatively when receiving the signal requesting call forwarding from the second electronic device or the electronic device management server through the first communication module the processor may transmit the received signal requesting call forwarding to the carrier using the first communication module . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may generate a new message requesting call forwarding on the basis of the received signal for requesting call forwarding and may transmit the newly generated message to the carrier through the first communication module .

When the first electronic device and the second electronic device are connected again through the second communication module the processor may generate a signal for requesting release of call forwarding. The processor may transmit the generated signal for requesting release of call forwarding to the carrier through the first communication module .

Alternatively when receiving from the electronic device management sever a communication disabled state notification on the second electronic device through the first communication module the processor may generate a signal for requesting the release of call forwarding and transmit it to the carrier through the first communication module .

During the use of call forwarding service the processor may display an indicator for notifying that the call forwarding service is in use on a screen of the first electronic device . Accordingly a user may check whether call forwarding service is in use by checking the indicator displayed on the screen of the first electronic device . If a user leaves the second electronic device in the home and carries only the first electronic device a connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is disconnected and thus a call forwarding service may be established. In this case since a user cannot receive any contact with only the first electronic device the user may notice the indicator on the screen and apply a user input to allow the processor to display a call forwarding UI controlling the call forwarding service.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is disconnected the processor may display the call forwarding UI on the screen without an additional user input in order to query a user as to whether to use a call forwarding service.

In addition to the case where a connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is terminated or disconnected when the first electronic device is connected to the electronic device management sever or receives a user input for requesting the call forwarding on the call forwarding UI the call forwarding service may be performed through a user input for requesting call forwarding. Accordingly the operation mentioned for call forwarding service in the case that a connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is disconnected may be applied to the case that the first electronic device is connected to the electronic device management sever or receives the user input for requesting the call forwarding.

On the other hand an operation for releasing call forwarding may be performed when the first electronic device and the second electronic device are connected to each other when a connection between the first electronic device and the electronic device management server is disconnected or when there is a user input for requesting the release of call forwarding.

The memory may store data. The memory for example may include at least the same or similar configuration to the memory shown in . At this point the data stored in the memory includes data inputted and outputted between each component inside the first electronic device and may include data inputted and outputted between the first electronic device and components outside the first electronic device .

Those skilled in the art would understand that the first communication module the second communication module the processor and the memory may be implemented separately or at least one of them is implemented integrally.

Hereinafter various operations performed in the first electronic device and the second electronic device will be described in more detail.

Referring to a pairing between the first electronic device and the second electronic device may be released disconnected in operation . Basically an effective distance of a pairing using BT may be within 10 meters and the pairing may be released as it is out of the effective distance. Besides that the release of the pairing may be made by turning off one of the first electronic device and the second electronic device or a user input of a user who releases the pairing.

In operation the second electronic device may detect the pairing release in operation and may activate a communication function. For example the second electronic device may activate only a communication function for example the second communication module utilized for the pairing during the pairing and may activate a cellular communication function and a data communication function the first communication module when the pairing is released. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the second electronic device may activate any one function of the CS module and the PS module .

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a communication function of the second electronic device may be in an activated state at all times. However this may accelerate the battery consumption of a wearable device for example the second electronic device and as mentioned above the second electronic device may activate only a communication function utilized for the pairing.

In operation the second electronic device may generate a signal for requesting call forwarding and transmit it to the carrier . The signal may be formed of any one format among a voice message a text message a multimedia message an Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD message and a Mobile Application Part MAP message.

In operation the carrier may start call forwarding service to transmit a call and or message received from external by targeting the first electronic device as a reception device to the second electronic device in response to the call forwarding request signal received in operation .

Referring to a pairing between the first electronic device and the second electronic device may be released disconnected in operation and on the basis of this the second electronic device may activate a communication function in operation .

In operation the second electronic device may generate a signal for requesting call forwarding and may transmit the generated signal requesting call forwarding to the first electronic device using the communication function activated in operation .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit the signal for requesting call forwarding received in operation to the carrier .

In operation the carrier may initiate the call forwarding service to forward a call and or message directed to the first electronic device e.g. as a reception device to the second electronic device in response to the call forwarding request signal received in operation .

Referring to the first electronic device and the second electronic device may be paired with each other in operation .

In operation the first electronic device and the second electronic device may mutually exchange information during pairing. For example the first electronic device may obtain identification information on the second electronic device and the second electronic device may obtain identification information on the first electronic device .

In operation the pairing between the first electronic device and the second electronic device may be released due to various causes. For example when a communication state degrades or becomes worse or a distance between the first electronic device and the second electronic device grows to be more than an effective distance of communication pairing may be released.

In operation the second electronic device may activate a communication function on the basis of the pairing release in operation .

In operation the second electronic device may request a connection from the electronic device management server . Similarly in operation the first electronic device may request a connection from the electronic device management server . The order of operation and operation may be changed or may be performed at the same time. In some alternate embodiments only one of operation and operation may be performed.

In operation the electronic device management server may establish a communication session between the first electronic device and the second electronic device . For example the connection request received in operation may include information on the first electronic device and the second electronic device and the electronic device management server may establish the session between the first electronic device and the second electronic device by using the information on the first electronic device and the second electronic device . Similarly the connection request received in operation may include information on the first electronic device and the second electronic device and the electronic device management server may establish the session between the first electronic device and the second electronic device using the information on the first electronic device and the second electronic device .

Through the established session the first electronic device and the second electronic device may mutually transmit and or receive data. In operation and operation the second electronic device may transmit a signal for requesting call forwarding to the first electronic device through the electronic device management server .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit the signal for requesting call forwarding received in operation to the carrier . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first electronic device may generate the signal for requesting call forwarding to transmit it to the carrier on the basis of only operation without operation and operation .

In operation the carrier may start call forwarding service to transmit a call and or message directed to the first electronic device e.g. as a reception device to the second electronic device in response to the call forwarding request signal received in operation .

In operation the carrier may transmit to the second electronic device a call and or message directed to the first electronic device e.g. as a reception device based on the established call forwarding performed in operation operation or operation .

However when call forwarding to the second electronic device is operative a user cannot send a call or transmit a message to the first electronic device using the second electronic device which may be required such as when the first electronic device is given to children to prevent an emergency situation or if after leaving the first electronic device in a certain place the user tries to contact someone who is near the first electronic device at the certain place. Accordingly a user carrying the second electronic device may need to release by using the second electronic device a call forwarding service sets the second electronic device as a target device.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit to the carrier a release request for the call forwarding service setting the second electronic device as a target device. In this case a signal for requesting a call forwarding release as described above may be formed of any one format among a voice message a text message a multimedia message an USSD message and a MAP message.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the second electronic device may transmit to the carrier the release request for the call forwarding service through the first electronic device . Alternately the second electronic device may transmit to the carrier the release request for the call forwarding service through the electronic device management server and the first electronic device .

In operation the carrier may release the call forwarding service setting the second electronic device as a target device based on a call forwarding release request message received in operation .

In operation the carrier may transmit to the first electronic device call and or message directed to the first electronic device e.g. as a reception device which is transmitted to the second electronic device instead of the first electronic device due to the provisions of the established call forwarding service.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit to the carrier a call or message to be sent to the first electronic device .

In operation the carrier may transmit the call or message received in operation to the first electronic device based on the released call forwarding service performed in operation .

The order of operation to operation described with reference to is just an example and the disclosure is not limited thereto. That is the order of the above mentioned operations may mutually vary according to time and some operations among them may even be performed at the same time e.g. simultaneously . Additionally the above mentioned operations may be repeated periodically at specified times and or may be performed again on the basis of a user input inputted from a user.

Furthermore since some operations may be omitted for example a not received e.g. missed call and or message to be transmitted to the first electronic device in operation may not be transmitted in addition to the transmitted information.

In operation the electronic device management server may check a communication state of the first electronic device . The checking of the communication state performed in operation may be performed periodically by a specified time unit and this may be performed by using a network ping.

In operation and operation when a communication disabled state of the first electronic device occurs the electronic device management server may check whether the communication disabled state of the first electronic device continues for a specified time.

In operation when the communication disabled state of the first electronic device continues for the specified time the electronic device management server may notify the second electronic device that the first electronic device is in the communication disabled state.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure operation may be omitted and in this case as soon as it is checked that the first electronic device is in the communication disabled state the electronic device management server may notify the second electronic device that the first electronic device is in the communication disabled state.

The order of operation to operation described with reference to is just an example and the disclosure is not limited thereto. That is the order of the above mentioned operations may mutually vary and some operations among them may be performed at the same time. Additionally the above mentioned operations may be repeated periodically at specified times and may be performed again on the basis of a user input.

Referring to in operation the electronic device management server may check or detect a communication state of the second electronic device . The checking of the communication state performed in operation may be performed periodically by using a network ping.

In operation and operation when a communication disabled state of the second electronic device occurs the electronic device management server may check whether the communication disabled state of the second electronic device continues for a specified time.

In operation when the communication disabled state of the first electronic device continues for the specified time the electronic device management server may notify the first electronic device that the second electronic device is in the communication disabled state.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure operation may be omitted and in this case as soon as it is checked and confirmed that the second electronic device is in the communication disabled state the electronic device management server may notify the first electronic device that the second electronic device is in the communication disabled state.

In operation the first electronic device may transmit to carrier a release request for the call forwarding service set the second electronic device as a target device.

In operation the carrier may release a call forwarding service set for the second electronic device in response to the call forwarding release request received in operation .

Operation illustrates that a call or message targeted to the first electronic device is transmitted to the first electronic device according to the release of the call forwarding service.

In operation and operation when the communication disabled state of the second electronic device is eliminated the second electronic device may transmit to carrier a call forwarding service request.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the elimination of the communication disabled state of the second electronic device shown in operation may be obtained by checking a communication state check performed periodically in the electronic device management server . Accordingly the electronic device management server may request a call forwarding service for the second electronic device from the carrier .

In operation the carrier may transmit to the second electronic device information on a call or message transmitted to the first electronic device in operation .

In this case the carrier may transmit the not received e.g. missed message as it is to the second electronic device . In one alternative the carrier may transmit the not received message in summary form to the second electronic device and only when it receives a request of details from the second electronic device the carrier may transmit an original message to the second electronic device .

In another embodiment the second electronic device may receive a not received or missed message in an original form from the carrier but may display the received missed message in a summary form on a screen.

Here the message in summary form may represent the number of the not received messages. The original message may represent the caller calling time and message content of a not received message. Information on the not received call may include the caller and calling time of the not received call.

Additionally a subject for transmitting a not received call or message to the second electronic device in operation may be the electronic device management server instead of the carrier .

Hereinafter illustrating a different embodiment from will be described. Operation to operation shown in correspond to operation to operation shown in and the same operation numbers are assigned. Accordingly descriptions of overlapping contents are omitted.

Referring to in operation the electronic device management server may check a communication state of the second electronic device . The communication state check performed in operation may be identical to the communication state check performed in operation .

In operation the electronic device management server may transmit to the first electronic device a state in which a communication of the second electronic device is available.

In operation and operation the first electronic device may transmit information on the call or message transmitted to the first electronic device in operation to the second electronic device through the electronic device management server .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device management server may synchronize a call message and event history delivered to each electronic device regardless of a call forwarding setting e.g. enabled or disabled in the carrier . Accordingly in this case operation and operation may be omitted and when the second electronic device enters a communicable state through operation from the communication disability state the electronic device management server may directly transmit information for the not received call and or the not received message e.g. missed calls and or messages to the second electronic device .

The order of operation to operation described with reference to is just an example and the disclosure is not limited thereto. That is the order of the above mentioned operations may mutually vary and some operations among them may be performed at the same time. Additionally the above mentioned operations may be repeated periodically at each specified time and may be performed again on the basis of a user input.

In operation the second electronic device may be paired with the first electronic device through a BT network.

In operation a BT pairing that mutually matches the second electronic device and the first electronic device may be released due to various causes. The release of the BT pairing will be described with the next example.

According to operation a distance between the second electronic device and a smartphone may become greater than a BT communicable distance. For example when a user leaves the first electronic device in a room and goes to a bathroom the BT pairing between the second electronic device and the first electronic device may be released due to the distance created. According to operation when power of the second electronic device is switched off e.g. by a user input turning off power or battery exhaustion or depletion the BT pairing between the second electronic device and the first electronic device may be released. According to operation the BT pairing between the second electronic device and the first electronic device may be released by a user input directed releasing of the BT pairing.

In operation the second electronic device may display a communication module activation UI on a screen for whether to activate the first communication module .

In operation the second electronic device may perform a predetermined operation by a user input through the communication module activation UI or the satisfaction of a specified condition.

For example according to operation or operation when the second electronic device does not receive a selection input for a specified time or receives a user input for activating the first communication module as shown in operation the second electronic device may activate the first communication module .

On the other hand according to operation when the second electronic device receives a user input for not activating the first communication module as shown in operation the second electronic device may maintain the first communication module to be in an inactivated state.

In operation the second electronic device may be paired with the first electronic device through a BT network.

When a BT pairing mutually matching the second electronic device and the first electronic device is released in operation the second electronic device may display a call forwarding UI e.g. a user interface on a screen for asking whether to use call forwarding service in operation .

Alternatively when the second electronic device is connected to the electronic device management server in operation after the BT pairing between the second electronic device and the first electronic device is released the second electronic device may display the call forwarding UI in operation .

Alternatively when receiving a user input for calling the call forwarding UI in operation the second electronic device may display the call forwarding UI in operation .

According to operation or operation when the second electronic device does not receive an input for the call forwarding UI for a specified time or receives a user input for using call forwarding service the second electronic device may use the call forwarding service in operation .

On the other hand according to operation when the second electronic device receives a user input for not using the call forwarding service the second electronic device may not use the call forwarding service in operation .

Hereinafter with reference to according to a communication module activation or a call forwarding service use an indicator displayed on each screen of the first electronic device and the second electronic device will be described.

Referring to the reference number represents the second electronic device when the first communication module is not activated and the reference number represents the second electronic device when the first communication module is activated.

When comparing the reference number and the reference number while the first communication module of the second electronic device is activated a communication indicator indicating that the first communication module is in an activated state may be displayed on the screen of the second electronic device . However in this case the 3G indicator shown in the communication indicator is a mere example of a cellular communication mode used in the first communication module and it is understood that various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to using only 3G as a cellular communication. The second electronic device may use various communication functions such as LTE or LTE A. Additionally the first communication module uses the CS module and also the PS module and when data communication is used an indicator for a corresponding communication may be displayed on the screen. Furthermore an indicator e.g. in antenna form representing a communication throughput may be shown as the communication indicator . It is understood however that this example also does not limit the various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The reference number shown at the bottom of represents the second electronic device using call forwarding service and in this case a call forwarding indicator representing that the call forwarding service is in use may be displayed on the screen. Additionally the reference number shown at the bottom of represents the first electronic device is using call forwarding service and in this case a call forwarding indicator representing that the call forwarding service is in use may be displayed on a screen.

Although a communication module activation method and a call forwarding service are separately described above with reference to according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication module activation method and the call forwarding service may be performed at the same time.

Referring to the second electronic device may display a call forwarding UI on a screen in operation . The call forwarding UI may correspond to the call forwarding UI shown in .

In operation the second electronic device may activate the first communication module and may utilize or establish the call forwarding service. Accordingly a communication indicator and a call forwarding indicator may be displayed on the screen of the second electronic device as depicted.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when connect is selected from the communication module activation UI shown in the operation of may be performed. In one example a user confirms operation of a communication module which allows activation of a communication module and establishment of the call forwarding service.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a first communication module for performing cellular communication a second communication module for performing communication to connect the electronic device to an external electronic device and at least one processor electrically connected to the first and second communication modules and the processor may transmit a signal for requesting call forwarding to the outside by using the first communication module on the basis of a specified condition.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication module may further perform data communication or WiFi communication using access point AP and the first communication module may access an electronic device management server by using the data communication or the WiFi.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the second communication module may use a short range communication including at least one of BT WiFi direct ZigBee NFC and RFID.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the specified condition for transmitting a signal for requesting the call forwarding to the outside by using the first communication module includes the case that a connection with the external electronic device is released the case that the electronic device is connected to an electronic device management server through the first communication module or the case that a user input for generating a signal for requesting the call forwarding is received through a call forwarding UI.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may display a call forwarding UI when a connection with the external electronic device is released when the electronic device is connected to an electronic device management server through the first communication module or when a user input for requesting a display of the call forwarding UI is received.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a connection with the external electronic device is released the processor may request a connection with the electronic device from the electronic device management server by using the first communication module. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the signal for requesting the call forwarding may be transmitted to the external electronic device directly or through the electronic device management server and a signal for requesting the transmitted call forwarding may be transmitted to a specified carrier through the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may transmit a signal for requesting the call forwarding release to the outside by using the first communication module when it is connected to the external electronic device when the electronic device is disconnected from an electronic device management server or when a user input for generating a signal for requesting the release of the call forwarding is received through a call forwarding UI.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a signal for requesting the call forwarding or a signal for requesting the release of the call forwarding may be in one format of a voice message a text message a multimedia message a MAP message and an USSD message.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication module may receive a message for notifying a communication disabled state of the external electronic device from an electronic device management server.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication module may receive information or message for a voice call not received during the communication disabled state from an electronic device management server the external electronic device or a carrier when the communication disabled state of the electronic device is eliminated. In this case according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the information on a not received voice call or the message not received during the communication disabled state may be displayed in a summarized list format.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a wearable electronic device and the external electronic device may be a smartphone.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may activate the first communication module when a connection between the electronic device and the external electronic device is disconnected when the electronic device is connected to an electronic device management server or when a user input for requesting the activation of the first communication module through a first communication module activation UI.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication module includes a CS module and a PS module and an operation for activating the first communication module may be at least to activate the CS module. For example when the electronic device is connected to the electronic device management server by using the PS module or the second communication module the CS module in deactivated state may be activated.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a sensor for detecting a human body may be further included and the processor may transmit a signal for requesting the call forwarding when a human body is detected.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the first communication module is in operation the processor may display an indicator for notifying that the first communication module is in operation on a screen.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure during the use of call forwarding service the processor may display an indicator for notifying that the call forwarding service is in use on a screen.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a first communication module for performing cellular communication and a second communication module for performing a communication to connect the electronic device to an external device and the first communication module may receive a voice call signal or message using the electronic device as a reception device from a carrier while a connection between the electronic device and the external electronic device is maintained and may not receive a voice call signal or message targeting the electronic device as a reception device from a carrier after a connection between the electronic device and the external electronic device is disconnected.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication module may receive a signal for requesting call forwarding from the external electronic device and may transmit the received signal for requesting the call forwarding to the carrier.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least one processor electrically connected to the first and second communication modules may be further included and the processor may transmit a signal for requesting the release of call forwarding to the external device to the carrier by using the first communication module when the first communication module receives a communication disabled state notification of the external electronic device from an electronic device management server.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure during the use of call forwarding service the processor may display an indicator for notifying that the call forwarding service is in use on a screen.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may display a call forwarding UI for controlling the call forwarding service on a screen on the basis of a user input.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a smartphone and the external electronic device may be a wearable electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a call forwarding method of an electronic device includes detecting a specified operation and transmitting a signal for requesting call forwarding to a carrier. The specified operation includes the case that a connection with the external electronic device is released the case that the electronic device is connected to an electronic device management server through the first communication module or the case that a user input for generating a signal for requesting the call forwarding is received through a call forwarding UI.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include receiving by the electronic device instead of the external electronic device a voice call signal or message targeting the external electronic device as a reception device from the carrier on the basis of the call forwarding request.

According to any one of the above mentioned technical solutions of the present disclosure at least one of various embodiments of the present disclosure may provide by using a plurality of electronic devices call forwarding service based on each state of the plurality of electronic devices.

The term module used in this disclosure for example may mean a unit including a combination of at least one of hardware software and firmware. The term module and the term unit logic logical block component or circuit may be interchangeably used. A module may be a minimum unit or part of an integrally configured component. A module may be a minimum unit performing at least one function or part thereof. A module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example module used in this disclosure may include at least one of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip performing certain operations field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device all of which are known or to be developed in the future.

According to various embodiments at least part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations for example as in a form of a programming module may be implemented using an instruction stored in computer readable storage media. When at least one processor for example the processor executes an instruction it may perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The non transitory computer readable storage media may include the memory for example.

The computer readable storage media may include hard disks floppy disks magnetic media for example magnetic tapes optical media for example Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Digital Versatile Disc DVD and Magneto Optical Media such for example floptical disk and hardware for example Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM and flash memory . Additionally a program instruction may include high level language code executable by a computer using an interpreter in addition to machine code created by a complier. The hardware device may be configured to operate as at least one software module to perform an operation of various embodiments and vice versa.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware firmware or via the execution of software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic tape a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered via such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for . In addition an artisan understands and appreciates that a processor or microprocessor may be hardware in the disclosure. Under the broadest reasonable interpretation the appended claims are statutory subject matter in compliance with 35 U.S.C. 101.

A module or a programming module according to various embodiments may include at least one of the above mentioned components may not include some of the above mentioned components or may further include another component. Operations performed by a module a programming module or other components according to various embodiments may be executed through a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic method. Additionally some operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted. Or other operations may be added.

Also embodiments disclosed in various embodiments of the present disclosure are suggested for the description and understanding of technical contents and are not limit the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should be interpreted as including all modifications or various other embodiments based on the technical idea of the present disclosure.

