---

title: Methods and system for dynamic spectrum arbitrage with a mobility load balancer gateway
abstract: A dynamic spectrum arbitrage (DSA) system includes a dynamic spectrum policy controller (DPC) and a dynamic spectrum controller (DSC) that together dynamically manage the allocation and use of resources (e.g., spectrum resources) across different networks. The DSC component may include wired or wireless connections to a mobility load balancer gateway (MLB gateway) component that is coupled to eNodeBs, a mobility management entity (MME), and various other network components. The MLB gateway may be configured to serve/operate as a gateway that continuously, repeatedly, or dynamically identifies, selects, and assigns an MME to a wireless device and performs various other mobility management operations to coordinate the handling (e.g., handoffs, hand-ins, backoff, etc.) of the wireless devices as it is moved within and in-between networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467843&OS=09467843&RS=09467843
owner: Rivada Networks, LLC
number: 09467843
owner_city: Colorado Springs
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150515
---
With the ever increasing use of wireless communication devices for accessing networks and downloading large files e.g. video files there is an increasing demand for radio frequency spectrum. Smart phone users complain about dropped calls slow access to the Internet and similar problems which are due largely to too many devices trying to access finite radio frequency RF bandwidth allocated to such services. Yet parts of the RF spectrum such as the RF bands dedicated to emergency services e.g. police fire and rescue etc. go largely unused due to the non continuous and episodic employment of such voice radio communication bands. Therefore improved methods and solutions for dynamically allocating underutilized telecommunication resources e.g. RF spectrum etc. of a first telecommunication network for access and use by wireless devices that subscribe to other networks will be beneficial to the telecommunication networks service providers and to the consumers of telecommunication services.

The various embodiments include a dynamic spectrum arbitrage DSA method that includes receiving in a processor a communication message that includes information indicating that a wireless device in a first communication network will commence using a resource in a second communication network determining a current capacity of each of a plurality of mobility management entity MME components in a pool of MMEs using the determined current capacities of the plurality of MME components to select one MME from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for the wireless device after that wireless device begins using the resource or is handed over to an eNodeB in the second communication network and sending the received communication message to the selected MME component to cause the wireless device to be assigned to the selected MME component after it begins using the resource or is handed over to the eNodeB in the second communication network.

In an embodiment determining the current capacity of each of the plurality of MME components in the pool of MMEs includes determining a current workload and remaining processing capacity of an MME component. In a further embodiment using the determined capacities of the plurality of MME components to select one MME from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over to the eNodeB in the second communication network includes selecting an MME component from the pool of MMEs so as to load balance network traffic across all MMEs in the pool of MMEs.

In a further embodiment using the determined capacities of the plurality of MME components to select one MME from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over to the eNodeB in the second communication network includes selecting an MME component from the pool of MMEs so as to steer network traffic to an MME component in the pool of MMEs that is determined to have the highest current capacity. In a further embodiment the method may include receiving updated capacity information for each of the plurality of MME components in the pool of MMEs determining that the wireless device moved from a first cell site in the second communication network to a second cell site in the second communication network selecting a new MME component from the pool of MMEs for the wireless device based on the updated capacity information in response to determining that the wireless device moved from the first cell site in the second communication network to the second cell site in the second communication network.

In a further embodiment the method may include establishing a first communication link between a communications server and a first server in the first communication network establishing a second communication link between the communications server and a second server in the second communication network receiving in the communications server a request for resources from the first server determining in the communications server an amount of resources in the second communication network that available for allocation for use by wireless devices in the first communication network and allocating a portion of the available resources of the second communication network for access and use by wireless devices of the first communication network and generating the communication message that includes information indicating that the wireless device in the first communication network will commence using the resource of the second communication network.

Further embodiments may include computing devices that includes various means e.g. processor memory communications circuitry etc. for performing functions corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

Further embodiments may include a server computing device that includes a processor configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations including receiving a communication message that includes information indicating that a wireless device in a first communication network will commence using a resource in a second communication network determining a current capacity of each of a plurality of mobility management entity MME components in a pool of MMEs using the determined current capacities of the plurality of MME components to select one MME from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over to an eNodeB in the second communication network and sending the received communication message to the selected MME component to cause the wireless device to be assigned to the selected MME component after it is handed over to the eNodeB in the second communication network.

In an embodiment the processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations such that determining the current capacity of each of the plurality of MME components in the pool of MMEs includes determining a current workload and remaining processing capacity of an MME component. In a further embodiment the processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations such that using the determined capacities of the plurality of MME components to select one MME from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over to the eNodeB in the second communication network includes selecting an MME component from the pool of MMEs so as to load balance network traffic across all MMEs in the pool of MMEs.

In a further embodiment the processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations such that using the determined capacities of the plurality of MME components to select one MME from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over to the eNodeB in the second communication network includes selecting an MME component from the pool of MMEs so as to steer network traffic to an MME component in the pool of MMEs that is determined to have the highest current capacity. In a further embodiment the processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations further including receiving updated capacity information for each of the plurality of MME components in the pool of MMEs determining that the wireless device moved from a first cell site in the second communication network to a second cell site in the second communication network selecting a new MME component from the pool of MMEs for the wireless device based on the updated capacity information in response to determining that the wireless device moved from the first cell site in the second communication network to the second cell site in the second communication network.

Further embodiments may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon processor executable software instructions configured to cause a processor to perform dynamic operations including receiving a communication message that includes information indicating that a wireless device in a first communication network will commence using a resource in a second communication network determining a current capacity of each of a plurality of mobility management entity MME components in a pool of MMEs using the determined current capacities of the plurality of MME components to select one MME from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over to an eNodeB in the second communication network and sending the received communication message to the selected MME component to cause the wireless device to be assigned to the selected MME component after it is handed over to the eNodeB in the second communication network.

In an embodiment the stored processor executable software instructions may be configured to cause a processor to perform operations such that determining the current capacity of each of the plurality of MME components in the pool of MMEs includes determining a current workload and remaining processing capacity of an MME component. In a further embodiment the stored processor executable software instructions may be configured to cause a processor to perform operations such that using the determined capacities of the plurality of MME components to select one MME from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over to the eNodeB in the second communication network includes selecting an MME component from the pool of MMEs so as to load balance network traffic across all MMEs in the pool of MMEs.

In a further embodiment the stored processor executable software instructions may be configured to cause a processor to perform operations such that using the determined capacities of the plurality of MME components to select one MME from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over to the eNodeB in the second communication network includes selecting an MME component from the pool of MMEs so as to steer network traffic to an MME component in the pool of MMEs that is determined to have the highest current capacity.

In a further embodiment the stored processor executable software instructions may be configured to cause a processor to perform operations further including receiving updated capacity information for each of the plurality of MME components in the pool of MMEs determining that the wireless device moved from a first cell site in the second communication network to a second cell site in the second communication network selecting a new MME component from the pool of MMEs for the wireless device based on the updated capacity information in response to determining that the wireless device moved from the first cell site in the second communication network to the second cell site in the second communication network.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

As used herein the terms mobile device wireless device and user equipment UE may be used interchangeably and refer to any one of various cellular telephones personal data assistants PDA s palm top computers laptop computers with wireless modems wireless electronic mail receivers e.g. the Blackberry and Treo devices multimedia Internet enabled cellular telephones e.g. the iPhone and similar personal electronic devices. A wireless device may include a programmable processor and memory. In a preferred embodiment the wireless device is a cellular handheld device e.g. a wireless device which can communicate via a cellular telephone communications network.

A high priority in responding to any emergency or disaster situation is establishing effective communications. In large scale emergency or disaster both manmade and natural situations it is paramount to maintain communications between all first responders and emergency personnel in order to respond manage and control the emergency situation effectively. In the absence of effective communication among first responders and other emergency personnel resources may not be effectively mobilized to the areas which need the resources most. Even in minor emergency situations e.g. traffic accidents and fires first responders must be able to call on support assets and coordinate with other services e.g. public utilities hospitals etc. .

With the ubiquity of wireless device ownership and usage emergency communication via wireless devices using commercial cellular communication networks often are the most efficient and effective means to mobilize emergency response personnel and resources. Enabling wireless devices to provide effective emergency communications obviates the technical challenges and expense of coordinating radio frequencies among various first responder agencies e.g. police fire ambulance FEMA public utilities etc. . Also qualified first responders to an accident who are off duty or not ordinarily equipped with radios e.g. doctors nurses retired police or military personnel will have or can quickly borrow a wireless device.

Emergency communications over cellular communication networks is not without problems however. Cellular and other telecommunication networks networks are designed to accommodate access requests from only a fraction of the total number of wireless devices in a particular cell. At times of emergency or crisis network resources may become overtaxed when predictable human responses to the situation prompt an extraordinary number of wireless device users within a particular cell to access the network at the same time. Wireless device users may be attempting to alert emergency personnel of the emergency situation such as a 911 emergency call or to alert friends or family members that the user is safe despite being in the area of an emergency situation. Some users may be transmitting images of the emergency condition fire accident etc. to news services or friends. In a wide scale situation emergency responders using wireless devices for emergency communications will add to the call volume. Regardless the predictable increase in call volume during an emergency situation can overwhelm a commercial cellular communications network particularly in the cell zone encompassing the emergency thus rendering the network unreliable for emergency response personnel communication usage.

To overcome these and other limitations of existing solutions the various embodiments include components configured to provide tiered priority access TPA capabilities to deliver quality of service QoS and grade of service GoS based wireless device communications for first responders. Detailed descriptions of example TPA systems are provided in U.S. Pat. No. 8 275 349 dated Sep. 25 2102 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

In overview a TPA system or solution may include various components configured to perform various TPA operations to coordinate make available and or provide wireless communication resources to high priority users e.g. emergency personnel during times of high congestion or in emergency situations. For example TPA components may be configured to monitor a wireless network s call volume determine whether the wireless network call volume exceeds a first pre determined threshold partition the wireless network resources based on priorities when the wireless network call volume exceeds the first pre determined threshold and reserve a portion of the partitioned resources for high priority usage i.e. use by wireless devices of authorized emergency personnel . The TPA components may be further configured to monitor incoming and outgoing calls to determine whether a call is made from or to an high priority device e.g. to or from a pre registered wireless device or wireless devices of authorized emergency personnel allow general access to the wireless network resources so long as no call is made from or to high priority device and restrict general access to the wireless network resources in response to determining that a call is made to or from a high priority device. As such TPA solutions allow telecommunication systems use more the available resources and ensure that high priority users can access and use the system when needed.

In the various embodiments these and other TPA operations may be performed in or in conjunction with a dynamic spectrum arbitrage DSA system configured to dynamically manage the availability allocation access and use of telecommunication resources e.g. RF spectrum etc. between two or more networks e.g. between a lessor network and a lessee network . A detailed description of an example DSA system is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 8 711 721 dated Apr. 29 2014 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

Briefly a DSA system may include a dynamic spectrum policy controller DPC configured to manage the DSA operations and interactions between two or more networks e.g. between a lessor network and a lessee network . The DPC may communicate with various network components in a network provider network through one or more dynamic spectrum controller DSC components which may be included in or added to the networks participating in the DSA communications. The DSC component may include wired or wireless connections to eNodeBs a mobility management entity MME component server various satellite systems and other network components. The DSC may communicate with the DPC component to offer allocate request and or receive resources to and from other networks. This allows two or more networks to collaborate and make better use their resources e.g. by leasing resources during times of high congestion leasing out resources when they are not in use etc. .

The DSA components may be configured to coordinate their operations and communicate information so as to better monitor the locations of the wireless device and make better and more informed DSA decisions. For example a DSC component may be configured to communicate with an MME component to determine the precise location of a wireless device with respect to a telecommunication resource. The DSC component may use this location information i.e. precise location of the wireless device to better identify candidate devices for handoff handin backoff and move back operations.

In addition these DSA components may be configured to perform various special functions individually or in concert to further support the mobility of wireless devices as they are moved with respect to the available resources and between the participating networks. These special function may include identifying a resource grid determining a buffer zone for the grid finding geographical boundaries or boundaries during wireless device mobility performing inter network handovers for connected wireless devices monitoring a wireless device s vicinity determining whether a wireless device is idle performing move back operations for idle devices determining congestion state changes handling coverage gaps due to cell outages or blacklisting during a handin a handoff or backoff procedure identifying operator policies pre planning a handin a handoff or a backoff procedure and other similar operations.

The DSA components may be configured to perform load balancing operations based on inter network mobility of the wireless devices which may be determined based on the location of the wireless device with respect to resources made available by the telecommunication networks. In addition the various embodiments include DSA components configured to perform mobility load balancing operations to better support intra network mobility of the wireless devices and reduce congestion at an entrance mobility management entity MME . For example the DSA components may include a mobility load balancer MLB component that is configured to act as a gateway that continuously or repeatedly identifies and selects a suitable MME component from among a plurality of MMEs in the lessor network for a wireless device that subscribes to a lessee network and is therefore using leased or allocated resources of the lessor network as that wireless device is transferred or moved between cell sites or eNodes in the lessor network.

The MLB component may be configured to receive a notification message e.g. from a DPC DSC another MLB component etc. that includes information that indicates that resources have been allocated and or that a wireless device in a first communication network lessee network will commence using a resource in a second communication network lessor network . In response the MLB component may determine a current or expected MME capacity e.g. workload processing capacity load factor availability etc. of each of a plurality of MME components in a pool of MMEs and select a suitable MME component from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for use by the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over to an eNodeB in the second communication network. After selecting a suitable MME component the MLB component may send the received notification message to the selected MME component to cause the wireless device to be assigned to the selected MME component after it is handed over from a first eNodeB in the first communication network to a second eNodeB in the second communication network. The MLB component may monitor the location of the wireless device. If the wireless device is moved between cell sites or eNodeBs in the second communication network the MLB component may reevaluate its MME selection and select another suitable MME component from the pool of MMEs to manage mobility operations for use by the wireless device after the wireless device is handed over from the second eNodeB in the second communication network to a third eNodeB in the second communication network. As such in various embodiments the MLB component may be configured to perform load balancing operations and mobility management operations for both inter network mobility and intra network mobility of wireless devices.

In some embodiments the MLB component may be configured to intelligently select a suitable MME component from the pool of MMEs based on the determined loads and capacities of the MMEs in the pool. The MLB component may configured to dynamically change or steer network traffic based on MME loads or capacities to improve the functioning and efficiency of the DSA components in the DSA system thereby improving the performance of the DSA system as a whole. The MLB component may also be configured to allocate or coordinate the movement of traffic from one system or another based on the MME loads capacities or the MMEs knowledge of eNodeB capacities .

In some embodiments the MLB component may be configured to assign an MME component to a wireless device based on real time traffic status of the MMEs in a pool of MMEs the availability of resources the resources that are required to support the requested QoS profile at the radio and transport bearer servicesk the type of services that are being delivered Quality of Service QoS available spectrum bandwidth location of spectrum in the frequency band geographic zone along with the requested service congestion control etc.

In some embodiments the MLB component may be configured to network activity e.g. call volume MME communications etc. to determine whether the network activity exceeds any one of a plurality of thresholds. The plurality of thresholds may include any number of thresholds and each threshold may store any value relating to any measurable network activity or event congestion bandwidth usage trends availability of resources QoS etc. . In an embodiment the plurality of thresholds may include a series of progressive threshold values. For example the plurality of thresholds may include a first threshold value that is exceeded when 50 of the network resources are in use a second threshold value that is exceeded when 75 of the network resources are in use a third threshold value that is exceeded when 85 of the network resources are in use a fourth threshold value that is exceeded when 95 of the network resources are in use etc. While the above examples are described with reference specific threshold values it should be understood that any combination or number of threshold values may be used.

The various embodiments may be implemented within a variety of communication systems examples of which are illustrated in . With reference to wireless devices may be configured to transmit and receive voice data and control signals to and from a base station which may be a base transceiver station BTS NodeB eNodeB etc. The base station may communicate with an access gateway which may include one or more of a controller a gateway a serving gateway SGW a packet data network gateway PGW an evolved packet data gateway ePDG a packet data serving node PDSN a serving GPRS support node SGSN or any similar component or combinations of the features functions provided thereof. Since these structures are well known and or discussed in detail further below certain details have been omitted from in order to focus the descriptions on the most relevant features.

The access gateway may be any logical and or functional component that serves as the primary point of entry and exit of wireless device traffic and or connects the wireless devices to their immediate service provider and or packet data networks PDNs . The access gateway may forward the voice data and control signals to other network components as user data packets provide connectivity to external packet data networks manage and store contexts e.g. network internal routing information etc. and act as an anchor between different technologies e.g. 3GPP and non 3GPP systems . The access gateway may coordinate the transmission and reception of data to and from the Internet as well as the transmission and reception of voice data and control information to and from an external service network the Internet other base stations and to wireless devices .

In various embodiments the base stations and or access gateway may be coupled e.g. via wired or wireless communication links to a dynamic spectrum arbitrage DSA system configured to dynamically manage the availability allocation access and use of various network resources e.g. RF spectrum RF spectrum resources etc. . The DSA system is discussed in detail further below.

In the example illustrated in long term evolution LTE and or evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN data transmitted from a wireless device is received by an eNodeB and sent to a serving gateway SGW located within the core network . The eNodeB may send signaling control information e.g. information pertaining to call setup security authentication etc. to a mobility management entity MME . The MME may request user subscription information from a home subscriber server HSS communicate with other MME components perform various administrative tasks e.g. user authentication enforcement of roaming restrictions etc. select a SGW and send authorization and administrative information to the eNodeB and or SGW . Upon receiving the authorization information from the MME e.g. an authentication complete indication an identifier of a selected SGW etc. the eNodeB may send data received from the wireless device to a selected SGW . The SGW may store information about the received data e.g. parameters of the IP bearer service network internal routing information etc. and forward user data packets to a policy control enforcement function PCEF and or packet data network gateway PGW .

The BSC PCU BSC PCF and RNC components may process the GPRS CDMA and UMTS data respectively and send the processed data to a component within the core network . More specifically the BSC PCU and RNC units may send the processed data to a serving GPRS support node SGSN and the BSC PCF may send the processed data to a packet data serving node PDSN and or high rate packet data serving gateway HSGW component PDSN HSGW . The PDSN HSGW may act as a connection point between the radio access network and the IP based PCEF PGW . The SGSN may be responsible for routing the data within a particular geographical service area and send signaling control plane information e.g. information pertaining to call setup security authentication etc. to an MME . The MME may request user and subscription information from a home subscriber server HSS perform various administrative tasks e.g. user authentication enforcement of roaming restrictions etc. select a SGW and send administrative and or authorization information to the SGSN .

The SGSN may send the GPRS UMTS data to a selected SGW in response to receiving authorization information from the MME . The SGW may store information about the data e.g. parameters of the IP bearer service network internal routing information etc. and forward user data packets to the PCEF PGW . The PCEF PGW may send signaling information control plane to a policy control rules function PCRF . The PCRF may access subscriber databases create a set of policy rules and performs other specialized functions e.g. interacts with online offline charging systems application functions etc. . The PCRF may then send the policy rules to the PCEF PGW for enforcement. The PCEF PGW may implement the policy rules to control the bandwidth the quality of service QoS the characteristics of the data and the services being communicated between the service network and the end users.

In the various embodiments any or all of the components discussed above e.g. components may be coupled to or included in a DSA system configured to dynamically manage the availability allocation access and use of telecommunication resources.

The DPC and DSC components may be configured to communicate via an interface that is implemented in or provided via a dynamic spectrum arbitrage application part DSAAP protocol module component which may be configured to allow facilitate support or augment communications between various DSA components e.g. DPC DSC etc. . For example the DSC may be configured to communicate with the DPC via an Xd interface reference point using the DSAAP protocol.

The eNodeBs may be interconnected and configured to communicate via an X2 interface reference point using the DSAAP protocol. The eNodeBs may be configured to communicate with the DSC via the Xe interface reference point which may use the DSAAP protocol TR 069 protocol and or TR 192 data model extensions e.g. to support listing available resources at the eNodeB notify the eNodeB of bid buy confirmations etc. . The eNodeBs may be configured to communicate with components in the core network via the S1 interface. For example an eNodeB may be connected to an MME via the S1 MME interface and connected to a SGW via the S1 U interface.

The eNodeBs may act as a bridge e.g. layer 2 bridge between the wireless devices and the core network by serving as the termination point of all radio protocols towards the wireless devices and relaying voice e.g. VoIP etc. data and control signals to network components in the core network . The eNodeBs may also be configured to perform various radio resource management operations which may include controlling the usage of radio interfaces allocating resources based on requests prioritizing and scheduling traffic according to various quality of service QoS requirements monitoring the usage of network resources and performing other similar operations. In addition in some embodiments the eNodeBs may be configured to collect radio signal level measurements analyze the collected radio signal level measurements and handover wireless devices or connections to the mobile devices to other base stations e.g. a second eNodeB based on the analysis of the collected radio signal level measurements.

The eNodeBs may be configured to monitor network activity e.g. call volume resource usage congestion number of active connections etc. to determine whether the network activity exceeds two or more thresholds. When the network activity exceeds a first threshold the eNodeBs may reserve a communication channel for the wireless device . When the network activity exceeds a second or subsequent threshold the eNodeBs may dynamically shape the network activity. Shaping the network activity may include performing operations to control one or more characteristics of the wireless communication links and or the data being communicated such as reducing bandwidth reducing QoS restricting the number of services shedding a connection transferring a connected device to another eNodeB performing handoffs etc.

There are a number of advantages to shaping the network activity of the wireless devices via the eNodeB including faster detection and response times improved efficiency and more focused application of solutions. For example since the eNodeB is outside of the core network it may be able detect and respond to changes in network activity much faster than the components. In an addition the eNodeB may respond to changes in network activity and or resource availability on a cell by cell or tower by tower basis as opposed to applying the changes to an entire geographical area updating network wide policies controls or applying restrictions to a specific subscriber or mobile device.

The MME may be configured to perform various operations to provide the system with various functions including non access stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security access stratum AS security control inter CN node signaling for mobility between 3GPP access networks idle mode UE reach ability including control and execution of paging retransmission tracking area list management e.g. for a wireless device in idle and active mode PGW and SGW selection MME selection for handovers with MME change SGSN selection for handovers to 2G or 3G 3GPP access networks roaming authentication bearer management functions including dedicated bearer establishment support for public warning system e.g. earthquake and tsunami warning system commercial mobile alert service etc. message transmission and performing paging optimization. The MME may also be configured to send communicate device state and attach detach status information to with the DSC component.

The DSCs may be configured to send information regarding the availability of spectrum resources e.g. information received from an eNodeB MME PCRF PCEF PGW etc. to the DPC . The DPC may be configured to receive and use such information to intelligently allocate transfer manage coordinate or lease the resources e.g. the available radio frequency spectrum resources of the second E UTRAN for access and use by wireless device subscriber of the first E UTRAN . For example the DPC may be configured to coordinate the allocation of spectrum resources to the first E UTRAN i.e. lessee network from the E UTRAN i.e. lessor network as part of the dynamic spectrum arbitrage operations. Such operations may allow a wireless device that is wirelessly connected to the eNodeB in the first E UTRAN e.g. via a communication link to be handed off to the eNodeB in the second E UTRAN . As part of this handoff procedure the wireless device may establish a new connection to the eNodeB in the second E UTRAN terminate the wireless connection to the original eNodeB and use the allocated resources of the second E UTRAN as if they are included in the first E UTRAN . These DSA and or handoff operations may be performed so that the wireless device maintains a data connection to or a data connection that is managed by the original lessee network after the wireless device is handed off to the eNodeB in the second E UTRAN

As part of the above described dynamic spectrum arbitrage operations the DPC may allocate resources of the second E UTRAN i.e. lessor network for access and use by a wireless device that subscribes to the first E UTRAN i.e. lessee network . The wireless device may be transferred from the MME in the first E UTRAN to the MME or MME cluster in the second E UTRAN . The first MME or MME cluster in the second E UTRAN to which the wireless device connects or is pinned is known as the entrance MME of that wireless device . The entrance MME continues to operate as the primary and or anchor MME for its associated or pinned devices and processes all of the handover traffic signaling during the entire time that the session remains active. In this example the entrance MME continues to operate as the primary anchor MME for its associated devices even after those devices are moved transferred or handed over to a different cell site .

As an example After the wireless device is moved from a first cell site in the second E UTRAN i.e. lessor network to a second cell site of that network e.g. due to the device being physically moved from one geographic area to another etc. the wireless device may be handed off or transferred from the eNodeB in the first cell site to an eNodeB in the second cell site . Since MME is the entrance MME for the wireless device it continues to operate as the primarily MME for the wireless device . As a result all or many of the signaling communications between eNodeB and MME for that wireless device are routed to MME i.e. back to the entrance MME which may be accomplished via inter MME communication links .

The routing of the signaling communications back to a the entrance MME may generate a significant amount of network traffic and or consume limited resources e.g. bandwidth etc. of the networks. Further since many wireless devices may use the same MME as their entrance MME one MME component in the network may be overloaded congested while other MMEs in that same network remain underutilized.

The first MLB gateway component may be coupled to the first DSC component via wired or wireless communication links or channels. The second MLB gateway component may be coupled to the second DSC component via wired or wireless communication links or channels. The first MLB gateway component may be coupled to the second MLB gateway component via a gateway communication link which may be a wired or wireless communication link or channel.

Each of the MLB gateway components may be configured to serve operate as a gateway that continuously repeatedly or dynamically identifies selects and assigns an MME to a wireless device . For example the MLB gateway component in the lessor network i.e. E UTRAN may be configured to receive an incoming handover signaling message originating in the lessee network via the DSC component. In response the MLB gateway component may determine the current load e.g. processing workload signaling traffic number of associated devices etc. on each of its associated MMEs perform load balancing operations to select an MME that is the best suited e.g. the most underutilized etc. to manage the mobility operations for the wireless device and forward the received handover signaling message to the selected MME component so as to cause that wireless device to assign attach pin or use to the selected MME component as its primary MME. In the example illustrated in the wireless device is in the first cell site and the MLB gateway component first assigns the wireless device to MME

When the wireless device is moved or transferred from a first cell site to a second cell site e.g. due to the device being physically moved handed over etc. the MLB gateway component may again determine the current loads of MMEs perform load balancing operations to determine which of the MMEs is the best suited MME and reassign the wireless device to the best suited MME. Thus the MLB gateway may be configured to perform other mobility management operations so as to assign and reassess the wireless device to any available MME component as needed. As a result an MME that is designated as the entrance MME is not required to remain the primary or anchor MME for the wireless device during the entire time that the session remains active.

The MLB gateway component improves the performance and functioning of the DSA system and reduces the probability that an MME component will become overloaded or fail. Further as the lessee wireless device moves within the lessor network the MLB gateway serves as the anchor MME so as to facilitate both common and coordinated connections between the lessee and lessor networks for S10 signaling. The MLB gateway also load balances the signaling traffic communications in the network reduces the volume of signaling communications between different MME in the same network and allows the lessor network to better manage and better utilize its network assets and resources. In addition the MLB gateway may distribute the workload across all of the MMEs in a pool of MMEs steer network traffic to MMEs that are underutilized or steer network traffic away from MMEs that are determined to be more likely or susceptible to experiencing an overload condition.

Each MLB gateway or operator network gateway may connect to a number of MMEs in its network support a number of difference interfaces e.g. S10 S3 etc. and perform various operations to support inter RAT and intra RAT handovers. When deployed in an LTE network an MLB gateway may allow an eNodeB to connect to a pool of MMEs e.g. MMEs . Further the MLB gateway may load balance signaling communications for an incoming wireless device i.e. a wireless device handed over from the lessee network etc. by assigning the wireless device to the best suited MME in the pool of MMEs.

In some embodiments the system may be configured so that when an eNodeB executes s1 setup procedure with an MME it receives s1 setup response message from the MME with an Relative MME Capacity information element IE that includes information identifying the MME s workload capacity load factor availability and or other information that may be used to perform loading balancing operations to distribute the workload across all of the MMEs in a pool of MMEs steer network traffic to MMEs that are underutilized or steer network traffic away from overloaded or nearly overloaded MMEs.

The MME capacity of each MME e.g. the MME s workload processing capacity load factor availability may change dynamically. As such each of the MMEs may be configured to monitor changes in their MME capacity and inform their associated eNodeBs and or their MLB gateway about such changes. For example an MME may be configured to generate and send a Relative MME Capacity information element IE to their associated eNodeBs each time there is a material or significant change in that MME s workload capacity load factor availability etc. The eNodeB may use this MME capacity information to manage current and future handover operations. The eNodeB may also send the MME capacity information to an associated DSC and or MLB gateway component either of which may send forward the information to a MLB gateway component in another network.

In some embodiments the eNodeBs may be configured to select an appropriate MME for signaling communications other than handover e.g. signaling required to perform the attach procedure service request procedure etc. . For example if a cell site is served by more than one MME the eNodeB may use the information included in the Relative MME Capacity information element IE to select an MME based on its MME capacity or load factor. The eNodeB may then forward an attach message to the selected MME .

In some embodiments each MME may be configured inform send the Relative MME Capacity information element or information identifying changes to its workload capacity to its associated MLB gateway . Further an MLB gateway may request and receive signals or communication messages from an EMS NMS that indicates there are changes to the workload or capacity of one or more MMEs . A MLB gateway may also request fetch the Relative MME Capacity information element IE from an MME such as in response to receiving a signals from an EMS NMS.

The MLB gateway may store information identifying the cells or eNodeBs that are served each of the MMEs . The MLB gateway may receive such information dynamically as static configuration information or a combination thereof. Static configuration information may be sent provided to MLB gateway through an OAM EMS NMS etc. In a dynamic environment when a new cell or eNodeB connects to an MME that MME may send the information identifying the new cells or eNodeBs to the MLB gateway via communication link or channel. In implementation based on the particular vendors Core Network used a combination of the static and dynamic allocations may be employed.

To balance the load between different MMEs in then network when handing over a wireless device between the lessee and lessor networks MLB gateway may connect to pool of MMEs e.g. MMEs so as to allow a cell or eNodeB to be served by a subset of the components in the MME pool.

In operation block the lessor eNodeB component and the second lessor MME component may establish an S1 connection via the S1 interface e.g. via the S1 MME interface etc. . In operation block the lessor eNodeB component may establish another S1 connection interface e.g. via the S1 MME interface etc. to the first lessor MME component.

In operation block the lessor MLB gateway component may receive load information from the first and second lessor MMEs . For example in operation block the lessor MLB gateway receive one or more Relative MME Capacity information elements that include information identifying the current and or predicted workloads capacities of the lessor MMEs 

In various embodiments the lessor MLB gateway component may receive current load of an MME by fetching the current load of MME when it receives initial handover message from other network and or fetching the current load of MME periodically and considering the latest received and stored MME capacity information e.g. load factor etc. to forward the initial incoming handover signaling. The lessor MLB gateway component may also periodically receive load information from all the connected MMEs. In addition the MMEs may be configured to send the load information when a wireless device registers to the MMEs via handover attach procedures service request etc. In some embodiments the MMEs may be configured to send the load information to the lessor MLB gateway component each time that the state of an associated wireless device transitions from EMM DEREGISTERED to EMM REGISTERED or from EMM REGISTERED to EMM DEREGISTERED.

In some embodiments the MMEs may be configured to send the load information to a DSC in response to determining that a threshold value has been reached crossed or beached. In these embodiments the lessor MLB gateway component may be configured to use an operator defined or alternative algorithm e.g. round robin algorithm algorithm based on MME priorities etc. to perform load balancing for incoming handover signaling messages until the threshold value has been reached crossed or beached.

In some embodiments the MMEs may be configured to send the load information in response to determining that a set of configured threshold values have been reached crossed or beached in the system. For example an MME having threshold1 60 of MME capacity threshold2 70 of MME capacity and threshold3 90 of MME capacity may send its load information to the lessor MLB gateway component three times i.e. when threshold is crossed threshold2 is crossed and threshold3 is crossed . These thresholds may be crossed in the up or down direction. For example the MMEs may be configured to send the load information if the MME s load factor decreases to less than 90 i.e. it crossed threshold3 .

Returning to in operation a processor of the lessee eNodeB component may generate and send a handover communication message to the lessee MME component to initiate DSA handover operations. In operation a processor of the MLB gateway component may receive a relocation request communication message from the lessee MME component e.g. via a DPC DSC MLB gateway in the lessee network etc. . The relocation request communication message may be a handover communication message and or include information identifying a target cell eNodeB in the lessor network to which the wireless device is to be transferred handed over. The MLB gateway component may then identify the target MME or MMEs that are associated with the target cell eNodeB.

In operation block the MLB gateway component may select the best suited or most appropriate MME from the target MMEs in the pool of MMEs e.g. the first and second lessor MMEs MME based on the target cell eNodeB and the workloads of the available MMEs. In the example illustrated in the MLB gateway component selects the second lessor MME component as the best suited or most appropriate MME. In operation the MLB gateway may send the relocation request message to the selected MME i.e. the second lessor MME component .

In operation the second lessor MME component may use the information included in the relocation request message generate and send a handover request message to the lessor eNodeB component. In operation the lessor eNodeB component may generate and send a handover request acknowledgment message to the second lessor MME component. In operation the second lessor MME may generate and send a relocation response message to the MLB gateway

In operation the MLB gateway may send the relocation response message to the lessee MME component. In operation the lessee MME component may send a handover command to the lessee eNodeB for forwarding to a wireless device. After receiving the handover command the wireless device may latch on to the lessor eNodeB component i.e. to the target eNodeB in operation block .

In operation the lessor eNodeB component may generate and send a handover communication message to the second lessor MME component. In operation the second lessor MME component may generate and send a relocation complete message to the MLB gateway . In operation the MLB gateway may send the relocation complete message to the lessee eNodeB component. In operation the lessee eNodeB component may generate and send a relocation complete acknowledgment message to the MLB gateway . In operation the MLB gateway may send the relocation complete acknowledgment message to the second lessor MME component.

In block the DPC may determine the amount of resources that are available for allocation. In block the DPC may perform various operations to allocate all or a portion of the available resources of the second communication network for access and use by wireless devices in the first communication network. In some embodiments in block the first and second communication networks may perform any or all of operations of method illustrated in . As part of these operations DPC may send a relocation request message or a forward relocation request message to a MLB gateway in the second communication network. Alternatively or in addition a MLB gateway in the first communication network may send the relocation request message to the MLB gateway in the second communication network in block .

Returning to in block the DPC may send a communication message to the first DSC e.g. by using the DSAAP protocol to inform the first communication network that the use of the allocated resources may begin. In block the DPC may record a transaction in a transaction database identifying an amount of RF spectrum resources allocated for use by the first communication network.

In block the DPC may receive a communication message from the second DSC that includes information indicating that the allocated resources have been consumed and or requesting that the allocated resources be released. In block the DPC may send a resource consumed release message to the first DSC to cause the first network to terminate its use of the allocated resources.

In block the DPC may broadcast a communication signal that includes information suitable for informing a plurality of communication networks that the telecommunication resource is available for allocation via an auction and including an auction start time for the auction. In block the DPC may receive bids from the plurality of communication networks for the telecommunication resource determined to be available for allocation in response to broadcasting the communication message and after the auction start time included in the broadcast communication signal. In an embodiment receiving bids from the plurality of communication networks may include receiving bids for access and use of the telecommunication resource determined at the future date and time.

In block the DPC may accept only the bids received from authorized networks determined to be eligible to participate in the auction. For example the DPC may determine whether the telecommunication resource is compatible with each of the plurality of communication networks authorize networks in the plurality of communication networks as being eligible to participate in the auction based on their compatibility with the telecommunication resource and accept bids from only the authorized networks.

In block the DPC may allocate the telecommunication resource of the first communication network for access and use by a second communication network in the plurality of communication networks based on accepted bids. In an embodiment allocating the telecommunication resource may include allocating the telecommunication resource of the first communication network for access and use by the second communication network at the future date and time. In some embodiments in block components in the first and second communication networks may perform any or all of operations of method illustrated in . For example a DPC may send a relocation request message or a forward relocation request message to a MLB gateway in the second communication network in block the MLB gateway may determine the current load e.g. processing workload signaling traffic number of associated devices etc. on each MME in a pool of MMEs perform load balancing operations etc.

In block the DPC may send a communication message to the second communication network that includes information suitable for informing the second communication network that use of allocated telecommunication resource may begin. In block the DPC may record a transaction in a transaction database identifying the telecommunication resource as being allocated for use by the second communication network. In block the DPC may request return of the allocated telecommunication resource. In block the DPC may broadcast a second communication signal to inform the plurality of communication networks that the telecommunication resource is available for reallocation via a second auction.

In block the DPC component may request return of the allocated telecommunication resource. In block the DPC may broadcast a second communication signal to inform the plurality of communication networks that the telecommunication resource is available for reallocation via a second auction.

In an embodiment the DSA method may further include the DPC component receiving resource configuration information relating to a resource allocation scheme from a first DSC in the first communication network and sending the resource configuration information to a second DSC in the second communication network. In a further embodiment the DSA method may include the DPC component receiving coordination information relating to availability of the telecommunication resource based on geographical areas from the first DSC and sending the coordination configuration information to the second DSC . In a further embodiment the DPC component may be configured to negotiate a resource leasing scheme between the first and second communication networks for a use of the resource and coordinating a handover of a mobile device between the first and second communication networks based on geographic boundaries defined in the resource leasing scheme. The DPC may be further configured to determine the validity of a subscriber device e.g. wireless device of the second communication network based on the proximity of the subscriber device to the geographical area level of quality of service available to the subscriber device and or information included in the resource leasing scheme.

In various embodiments the DPC may be configured to instruct the subscriber device to change networks or to establish a communication link to a resource in the first communication network based on the proximity of the subscriber device to the geographical area level of quality of service available to the subscriber device and or terms of the resource leasing scheme. The DPC may be configured to instruct a subscriber device that is actively connected to or using the telecommunication resource to change networks and or to attach to another resource based on the proximity of the subscriber device to the geographical area.

Various embodiments may include or use a dynamic spectrum arbitrage application part DSAAP protocol and or component that is configured to allow facilitate support or augment communications between two or more DSA components e.g. DPC DSC eNodeB MME HSS etc. so as to improve the efficiency and speed of the DSA system. A DSA component may be any component discussed in this application and or any component that participates in any of the DSA operations communications or methods discussed in this application. As such the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow facilitate support or augment communications between any of the components discussed in this application including the communications between a DPC component and a DSC component between the DSC component and a eNodeB component between the DSC component and an MME component between the DSC component and an HSS component between the MME component and the HSS component between the eNodeB component and a wireless device etc.

To facilitate the communications between two or more DSA components the DSAAP component s may publish application programming interfaces API and or include client modules that facilitate communications between the DSA components. In addition the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow the DSA components to communicate specific information use specific communication messages and or perform specific operations that together provide various DSA functions that further improve the efficiency and speed of the DSA system and participating networks.

As an example the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow an eNodeB to communicate with a DSC component e.g. via the Xe interface with other eNodeBs e.g. via an X2 interface and with various other components e.g. via the S1 interface . As a further example the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow facilitate support or augment communications between the DSC component and the DPC component so as to allow the DPC and or DSC components to better pool resources across the different networks better monitor traffic and resource usage in the various networks to more efficiently communicate bids and bidding information to quickly and efficiently register and deregister components and better perform backoff operations. The DSAAP component s may also improve the DSA resource auctioning operations by improving the performance and efficiency of the procedures for bidding generating invoices advertizing resources requesting resources purchasing resources validating bid credentials etc.

In the various embodiments all or portions of the DSAAP component may be included in one or more DSA components such as a DPC component a DSC component an eNodeB component an MME component and an HSS component. The DSAAP component may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. In an embodiment the DSAAP component may be configured to implement a DSAAP protocol which may be defined over the Xe Xd and or X2 reference points. In various embodiments the Xe reference point between DSC and eNodeB may use the DSAAP protocol TR 069 protocol and or TR 192 data model extensions to support listing available resources at the eNodeB and notifying the eNodeB of bid buy confirmations. The Xd reference point between DSC and DPC may use the DSAAP protocol for dynamic spectrum and resource arbitrage operations. The X2 interface reference point between the eNodeBs may also use the DSAAP protocol to communicate information.

In various embodiments the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow the various DSA components e.g. DSC DPC eNodeB etc. to communicate using the DSAAP protocol and or to perform various DSAAP methods. DSAAP methods may be performed in any of the DSA systems discussed in this application such as a system that includes a first DSC server in a first telecommunication network e.g. a lessee network a second DSC server in second telecommunication network e.g. a lessor network and a DPC server that is outside of the first and second telecommunication networks.

In an embodiment the DSA components e.g. DPC DSC MLB gateway etc. may be configured to perform mobility management operations to better manage and coordinate the handling e.g. handoffs hand ins backoff etc. of wireless devices as these devices are moved with respect to the available resources such as resources of their home network resources allocated by another network and collocated resources. Performing mobility management operations may include the DSC DPC and or MLB gateway components communicating with a wireless device eNodeB MME and or HSS to determine the locations of wireless devices . Performing mobility management operations may also include the MLB gateway component communicating with one or more MMEs in a pool of MMEs.

The methods discussed above may be used to keep the MLB gateway and DSC informed of the locations of the wireless device so that it can make better and more informed decisions. These methods allow the DSA components to store up to date information e.g. location or database records for the wireless devices. The DSA components may also use this information to identify candidate devices for handin and backoff operations e.g. due to mobility of the devices as well as to determine whether to reassign a wireless device to another MME component.

The DSC may designate a lessee wireless device that is determined to be moving towards a lessor s grid boundary where a bid is active for the lessee as candidate for a handin procedure. Similarly a DSC may designate a lessee wireless device that has moved out of the grid boundary as a candidate for backoff from the view of lessor DSC . In addition the DPC and or DSC components may be configured to perform various special functions to further support the mobility of lessee wireless devices as they are moved between the lessee and lessor networks. These special functions may include identifying a resource grid determining a buffer zone for the grid finding geographical boundaries or boundaries during wireless device mobility performing inter network handovers for connected wireless devices monitoring a wireless device s vicinity determining whether a wireless device is an idle determining congestion state changes etc. These special functions may further include handling coverage gaps due to cell outages or blacklisting during a handin a handoff or backoff procedure. In addition these special functions may include identifying operator policies determining blacklists and dynamic changes via a grid map and pre planning a handin a handoff or a backoff procedure. The special function may further include performing mobility based congestion based bid based or expiry based backoff operations.

In an embodiment the DSA system may be configured to lease out or allocate resources based on geographical areas such as a license area a regional area a cell sector region and or a subsector cell region. The DSA system may be further configured to divide the relevant geographical areas into subunits generate a grid map data structure that identifies these geographic subunits and use the grid map data structure to allocate de allocate and reallocate resources based on the geographical locations of the wireless devices with respect to the available resources.

The various embodiments may be implemented on a variety of wireless computing devices an example of which is illustrated in . Specifically is a system block diagram of a wireless transceiver device in the form of a smartphone cell phone suitable for use with any of the embodiments. The cell phone may include a processor coupled to internal memory a display and to a speaker . Additionally the cell phone may include an antenna for sending and receiving electromagnetic radiation that may be connected to a wireless data link and or cellular telephone transceiver coupled to the processor . Cell phones typically also include menu selection buttons or rocker switches for receiving user inputs.

A typical cell phone also includes a sound encoding decoding CODEC circuit which digitizes sound received from a microphone into data packets suitable for wireless transmission and decodes received sound data packets to generate analog signals that are provided to the speaker to generate sound. Also one or more of the processor wireless transceiver and CODEC may include a digital signal processor DSP circuit not shown separately . The cell phone may further include a ZigBee transceiver i.e. an IEEE 802.15.4 transceiver for low power short range communications between wireless devices or other similar communication circuitry e.g. circuitry implementing the Bluetooth or WiFi protocols etc. .

The embodiments described above including the spectrum arbitrage functions may be implemented within a broadcast system on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as the server illustrated in . Such a server typically includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other communication system computers and servers.

The processors may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by software instructions applications to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described below. In some devices multiple processors may be provided such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory before they are accessed and loaded into the processor . The processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions. In some servers the processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions. In some receiver devices the secure memory may be in a separate memory chip coupled to the processor . The internal memory may be a volatile or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory or a mixture of both. For the purposes of this description a general reference to memory refers to all memory accessible by the processor including internal memory removable memory plugged into the device and memory within the processor itself.

As used in this application the terms component module balancer and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution which are configured to perform particular operations or functions. For example a component may be but is not limited to a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program a computer a server network hardware etc. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device may be referred to as a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one processor or core and or distributed between two or more processors or cores. In addition these components may execute from various non transitory computer readable media having various instructions and or data structures stored thereon.

A number of different cellular and mobile communication services and standards are available or contemplated in the future all of which may implement and benefit from the various embodiments. Such services and standards include e.g. third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE systems third generation wireless mobile communication technology 3G fourth generation wireless mobile communication technology 4G global system for mobile communications GSM universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS 3GSM general packet radio service GPRS code division multiple access CDMA systems e.g. cdmaOne CDMA2000 enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE advanced mobile phone system AMPS digital AMPS IS 136 TDMA evolution data optimized EV DO digital enhanced cordless telecommunications DECT Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX wireless local area network WLAN public switched telephone network PSTN Wi Fi Protected Access I II WPA WPA2 Bluetooth integrated digital enhanced network iden land mobile radio LMR and evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN . Each of these technologies involves for example the transmission and reception of voice data signaling and or content messages. It should be understood that any references to terminology and or technical details related to an individual telecommunication standard or technology are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to a particular communication system or technology unless specifically recited in the claim language.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DPC an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DPC and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DPC core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium or non transitory processor readable medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside on a non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage medium. Non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage media may be any storage media that may be accessed by a computer or a processor. By way of example but not limitation such non transitory computer readable or processor readable media may include RAM ROM EEPROM FLASH memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of non transitory computer readable and processor readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the following claims and the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

