---

title: Method and system for sensitive data abstraction
abstract: According to an embodiment of the present invention, a system and method for transmitting sensitive data in a contact center environment comprising a transient datastore containing data, for each customer, defining a customer's profile including historical interactions with a host entity and account information, the customer profile containing sensitive and non-sensitive data; a computer processor, coupled to the computer store and programmed to: generate, using a computer processor, a transient key associated with a subset of data for the customer based on the current interaction data and a customer identity; transmit, using a computer processor, the transient key and non-sensitive data to the live agent; receive a request, the transient key and a requester identifier from a requesting component of the system, and identify a corresponding subset of data responsive to the transient key and the requester identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628488&OS=09628488&RS=09628488
owner: JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
number: 09628488
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150408
---
The application is related to co pending application U.S. application Ser. No. 14 681 372 titled Method and System for Conveying Context Data in a Multi Channel and Omni Channel Environment filed Apr. 8 2015 the contents of which are incorporated herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to contact center management and more specifically to sensitive data abstraction using a key or token to pass customer data through systems across an organization.

Customer data from a host system of an organization may be used by multiple systems across the organization to service the customer when the customer contacts the organization or when the organization proactively reaches out to the customer. During these interactions the customer data may pass through multiple network devices servers applications and user interfaces for example. Each of these devices may use a portion of the data to make certain decisions which may include decisions to route the customer to the right place. Customer data can traverse these devices either encrypted or unencrypted. Because the data is passed through these devices these devices invariably store the customer data in memory e.g. transient memory in disk e.g. logs and a database for reporting and analytics. The developer architect decides what data is used by each of these devices and stored for later use. Inevitably the data that is passed and also saved will contain sensitive data.

Current systems require significant cost and resources to secure the data end to end across multiple devices in transit and at rest and to further manage policies for storing and maintaining customer data.

Accordingly one aspect of the invention is to address one or more of the drawbacks set forth above. According to an embodiment of the present invention an automated computer implemented system for transmitting sensitive data in a contact center environment comprises a transient datastore containing data for each customer defining a customer s profile including historical interactions with a host entity and account information the customer profile containing sensitive and non sensitive data a computer processor coupled to the computer store and programmed to receive via an electronic input a contact from a customer via an electronic communication channel automatically capture current interaction data between the customer and an automated interactive entity receive an electronic request for a live agent from the customer generate using a computer processor a transient key associated with a subset of data for the customer based on the current interaction data and a customer identity transmit using a computer processor the transient key and non sensitive data to the live agent receive a request the transient key and a requester identifier from a requesting component of the system identify a corresponding subset of data responsive to the transient key and the requester identifier determine an appropriate security feature for the subset of data transmit the subset of data with the appropriate security feature to the requesting component and automatically remove the transient key from the transient datastore after a predetermined event.

According to another embodiment of the present invention an automated computer implemented method for transmitting sensitive data in a contact center environment comprises the steps of receiving via an electronic input a contact from a customer via an electronic communication channel automatically capturing current interaction data between the customer and an automated interactive entity receiving an electronic request for a live agent from the customer generating using a computer processor a transient key associated with a subset of data for the customer based on the current interaction data and a customer identity transmitting using a computer processor the transient key and non sensitive data to the live agent receiving a request the transient key and a requester identifier from a requesting component of the system identifying a corresponding subset of data responsive to the transient key and the requester identifier determining an appropriate security feature for the subset of data transmitting the subset of data with the appropriate security feature to the requesting component and automatically removing the transient key from a transient datastore after a predetermined event the transient datastore containing data for each customer defining a customer s profile including historical interactions with a host entity and account information the customer profile containing sensitive and non sensitive data.

These and other embodiments and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the various exemplary embodiments.

The following description is intended to convey an understanding of the present invention by providing specific embodiments and details. It is understood however that the present invention is not limited to these specific embodiments and details which are exemplary only. It is further understood that one possessing ordinary skill in the art in light of known systems and methods would appreciate the use of the invention for its intended purposes and benefits in any number of alternative embodiments depending upon specific design and other needs.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to a transient datastore for generating a key for transmitting sensitive data in a contact center environment. According to an embodiment of the present invention the transient datastore generates a key and provides only the relevant data. In some applications the relevant data may be pre determined pre processed and or filtered based on the request and or requesting component identity. For example the data may be provided to clients on a whitelist. The whitelist may represent a predefined list of clients or users allowed to access specific data elements to perform functions. The whitelist may be derived based on network elements and specific key structure in the request for data. In addition the data may be transient and available for a pre configured amount of time or based on a threshold e.g. end of the day after an event until the next interaction etc. for each interaction. The availability of data may be based on factors or conditions as well as a predetermined white list of clients. Data access requests may come to the transient datastore which then goes to a system of record. According to an embodiment of the present invention devices applications servers and other components may pass the generated key along with non sensitive data. Accordingly sensitive data is not passed between devices components and or systems within an organization. Each device application server and other component then if required or needed may query the transient datastore for additional information. For specific circumstances where sensitive data is required the data may be used in memory and then cleared after usage. Notably this data is not written to a disk e.g. logs databases etc. nor is the data passed to another application server device or other component. In addition an end user e.g. contact center agent specialist supervisor etc. may be required to demonstrate additional authentication to view the full customer profile if needed. For example this may be restricted to a specific group of users only.

In conventional systems all the data whether needed or not is passed to every component in the data or processing chain until the data finally reaches the end user e.g. live agent representative other recipient or receiving unit. The components in the data or processing chain do not need all the data and oftentimes only use a portion or subset of the data. In many instances sensitive data is not even needed. Regardless of whether the data is used or not each component however still logs in the data that is passed. This creates a security issue when customer sensitive data is passed and further logged or saved on each component or system in the chain. Accordingly this leads to unnecessary security measures and wasted efforts in saving logging and further protecting data that is not even needed. Because sensitive data is transmitted and saved an encryption algorithm or other security feature may be applied to the data in transit and at rest. Such systems end up maintaining and protecting data in multiple systems that do not even need the protected data.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to minimizing or eliminating the requirement to encrypt all data in transit as well as data at rest across multiple devices or even systems. Further an embodiment of the present invention is directed to significantly reducing or eliminating the complexity involved in implementing security practices based on data classification for each device component and or system In addition an embodiment of the present invention is directed to improving overall organizational security by focusing on the data as needed. An embodiment of the present invention provides a single access layer to the data with appropriate security practices using a transient datastore that generates a key.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the system and method provide significant reduction or elimination of distribution of sensitive data over multiple platforms and thereby address cyber security concerns. Accordingly a reduction in cost and improved standardization for data handling may be realized.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to providing relevant data as needed by each component for each interaction for authenticated users. Implementation of the various embodiments of the present invention across contact center platforms will improve security considerably and further manage cyber security threats quickly and easily. An embodiment of the present invention provides cost and maintenance reduction of managing encryption keys at rest and in transit. In addition an embodiment of the present invention may eliminate or reduce the requirement for encryption and or other forms of security measures.

Non sensitive data may include any data relating or relevant to a customer that may be helpful to a live agent and or other representative in interacting with the customer where the data is not deemed sensitive or confidential and therefore does not need to be secured. A contact center may refer to a centralized entity that receives requests and or other communications from customers users etc. Contact centers may include call centers help desk a centralized customer service unit etc. A contact center may receive requests via phone and or other modes of communication. The contact center may manage centralized handling of individual communications including email faxes social media instant message texts letters and or other forms of communication. The contact center may include an automated service that provides a first level of customer support. The automated service may include IVR VRU Voice Portal Speech Platform Automated Assistant multiple references speech recognition software and or other forms of interaction. At some point during the interaction a customer may opt to speak with a live agent. The contact center may then transfer the customer to an agent customer representative or other recipient or receiving unit.

IVR may represent a telephony technology in which a user uses a touch tone telephone or other tone device to interact with a database to acquire information from or enter data into the database. IVR technology does not require human interaction over the telephone as the user s interaction with the database is predetermined by what the IVR system will allow the user access to. For example banks and credit card companies may use IVR systems so that their customers can receive up to date account information instantly and easily without having to speak directly to a person. IVR technology is also used to gather information where the user is prompted to answer questions by pushing the numbers on a touch tone telephone.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the key or token may be valid for specific system specific customer and or specific interaction and may be valid for a particular period of time or other threshold. When the key expires none of the intermediate components will have access to the sensitive data. Because the key is transient none of the data is stored long term.

Depending on the particular industry other determinations may be made and other data may be analyzed. The information may also be used for routing agent selection targeted marketing and or other interactions with the customer. An embodiment of the present invention may be applied to customers who contact call centers as well as other customer interactions.

Other embodiments uses and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification and examples should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the invention is accordingly not intended to be limited thereby.

Also some data may be stored selectively in a database or other long term storage. Such data may be used for analytics reporting feedback marketing data mining etc.

In another example for each interaction a new key may be generated. According to another example a new key may reference prior keys for example when prior data is useful or helpful to the current interaction. Other variations may be applied.

For example an intermediate system may send a request for additional data. Based on the request the identity or type of the intermediate system and the authenticated key an embodiment of the present invention may identify a subset of data to be transmitted. Notably an embodiment of the present invention may recognize that a customer s social security does not need to be transmitted to this particular intermediate system. According to another example a routing platform may send a request and the key to the transient datastore where the transient datastore identifies the requested data e.g. resolution of the customer s prior interaction. Accordingly any sensitive data in the form of customer account number for example is not required for the routing platform to perform its routing function. Also the routing platform may need access to the customer s request captured during the IVR interaction. If this information is deemed sensitive the data itself may be encrypted. If not the non sensitive data may be passed to the routing platform and other intermediate components in the organization. According to another example if only a portion of the data is deemed sensitive an embodiment of the present invention may encrypt or protect just that portion and leave the remaining data.

Other variations may be realized and implemented in accordance with the embodiments of the present invention. For example multiple keys may be implemented for each customer interaction where each key may be associated with a subset of data. Also multiple levels of sensitivity and or encryption may be applied.

As shown in a host system may include a transient datastore . Host System may manage and maintain customer profile and personally identifiable information PII information. The host system may represent an organization or other entity. The organization itself may have other associations affiliations etc. The system architecture may include Data Access Layer to provide backend access and also support multiple protocols and multiple sources of data. Data Access Layer may represent a layer of a computer program that provides access to data stored in Transient Datastore . While a single transient datastore is illustrated the transient datastore may be distributed across multiple systems platforms remote locations etc. In addition transient datastore may be at a centralized location or facility. Accordingly Data Access Layer may support multiple datastores and database types. Data Access Layer provides a centralized location for all requests from various sources to the datastore.

A customer may interact with the host system via various forms of communication supported by voice portal dialer and company website . Other forms of inbound contacts and outbound contacts may be supported. Routing functions including multi channel routing may be performed and managed by contact routing .

The system may also support multi channel platforms including an inbound contact handler and an outbound contact handler. The various modes of communication may be supported by PBX ACD TDM VoIP SIP email chat click2call WebRTC .

PBX ACD TDM VoIP SIP represents voice communication. Private Branch Exchange PBX represents a telephone exchange or switching service that serves an organization and performs concentration of central office lines and provides intercommunication between a number of telephone stations in the organization. The central office lines provide connections to the public switched telephone network PSTN and permits the shared use of these lines between stations in the organization. Automatic Call Distributor ACD represents a system that distributes incoming calls to a specific group of terminals or agents based on various factors including customer need type and agent skill set. ACD also routes incoming calls based on a rule based set of instructions to determine the best available agent to respond to a given incoming call. Call routing may also use customer provided information e.g. why the customer is calling. Time Division Multiplexing TDM is a method of transmitting and receiving independent signals over a common signal path by using synchronized switches at each end of the transmission line. TDM allows transmission of multiple subscriber calls over the same transmission medium to effectively and efficiently utilize the bandwidth of the medium. Voice over IP VoIP refers to the delivery of voice communications and multimedia sessions over Internet Protocol IP networks such as the Internet. The Session Initiation Protocol SIP is a telecommunications protocol for signaling and controlling multimedia communication sessions. Common applications of SIP are in Internet telephony for voice and video calls as well as instant messaging over Internet Protocol IP networks. The SIP protocol defines the messages that are sent between endpoints which govern establishment termination and other essential elements of a call. SIP can be used for creating modifying and terminating sessions including one or several media streams.

An embodiment of the present invention also supports other forms of communication including email chat click2call and WebRTC . An embodiment of the present invention may support IP communication including telephony video messaging SMS and email with comprehensive support for traditional voice communication. By providing multiple forms of communication an embodiment of the present invention enables organizations to receive organize and manage all forms of communication.

Chat enables communication between callers via a chat feature. For example a customer may activate a chat feature and initiate an online chat with a customer representative. The customer may be automatically connected to a particular representative. Also the customer may select from a profile of representatives. According to another example a group chat conference may enable multiple customers or representatives to join a chat room. The IVR chat and conferencing feature provides real time services and answers for customer inquiries and requests.

Click2call is a web based communication where a user can click a hyperlink e.g. button image text etc. to request a connection with another person in real time by phone call VoIP or text. Click2call enables a user to make phone calls using an application on a mobile phone. Click2call uses a hyperlink that sends a command to initiate two phone calls one call to a VoIP subscriber phone and the other to an outbound number.

WebRTC represented by from the client interaction perspective will allow the user to start a chat conversation and then change seamlessly to voice and or video conversation without dropping the session and re establishing the session when the channel is changed. This will allow the user to have a seamless interaction with the contact center to resolve the reason for the contact.

WebRTC provides a bridge between Web protocols and SIP IMS protocols. WebRTC Web Real Time Communication is an application programming interface API definition that supports browser to browser applications for voice calling video chat and peer to peer P2P file sharing without the need of either internal or external plugins. WebRTC provides browsers and mobile applications with Real Time Communications RTC capabilities via simple APIs. For example WebRTC Gateways may enable real time communication between any browsers in the market without requiring any additional plugin installation. The Gateway may leverage WebRTC technology and provide the necessary conversion into Telecom protocols. It also enables real time communications from the web browsers into smartphones tablets PC softphones SIP phones and GSM PSTN phones. Other forms of voice and other communication may be supported by the various embodiments of the present invention.

The system may also include queuing platforms represented by Universal Queue and Omni Channel Solution . Multiple communications channels may be integrated into Universal Queue to standardize processing and handling. Universal Queue provides standardized routing recording handling reporting and management of communications in a contact center or across an organization. Omni Channel Solution may represent a device or service that converts media streams between disparate telecommunications networks. Omni Channel Solution provides context sharing across a multi channel environment allowing for optimal e.g. best in class customer experience and satisfaction improving overall NPS Net Promoter Score . Reporting platforms represented by provides multi channel reporting and contract center Key Performance Indicators KPI . KPI allows for optimal management of the business and are critical to tuning systems e.g. system interactions with customers and system to system interactions and agents e.g. agent interactions with customers 

Computer Telephony Integration CTI provides interactions on a telephone and a computer to be integrated and or coordinated. CTI provides desktop based interaction for assisting users to address customer concerns in a contact center environment. CTI may provide functions including automatic call routing of calls based on a caller s number or number dialed call reporting functions and voice recording integration. Additional features may include call information display automatic dialing computer controlled dialing phone control and feature control call transfers and call center agent state or status. Moreover CTI may provide context data to contact center agent . Analytics may be supported by Contact Recording and Contact Analytics . Contact Analytics may provide real time feedback based on analysis of historical data and current events as related to a customer contact at a particular moment in time. As shown in agent may represent an end user desktop and a live agent. Agent may also represent a processor system and or other receiving unit.

The interaction data from the IVR interaction may be cached. For example caching may be performed if there is a large amount of context data to be passed to an agent. The function of the cache may store the information in memory for a pre determined period of time and create a unique key or other identifier that gets passed to the agent. The agent may then use the key identifier to fetch the information from a transient database. The key in this exemplary scenario may be a location of this data as well as a simple https web service. For example the key may then be passed with a transfer to Contact Center Agent based on routing rules or other processing.

At step a customer may contact a contact center via a communication channel. The customer s contact may involve an initial interaction with an IVR or other automated entity. The user contact may involve voice commands touch tone commands biometrics and or other forms of interaction.

At step the customer may interact with the IVR. During the interaction customer data may be received such as customer identity customer identifier account number etc. Authentication and or other verification data may be accessed as well. The customer may provide authentication data to verify the customer s identity and authorization including credit card number account number name password username etc. The customer may also provide inputs including touch tone commands voice commands etc. in response to automated prompts. For example customer inputs can explain why the customer is contacting the organization or entity.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method and system for implementing a transient datastore that generates a key that corresponds to interaction data for a particular customer for a particular interaction. According to an embodiment of the present invention customer interaction data may be stored in a big data implementation including distributed storage and distributed processing of very large data sets. When the customer starts interaction with an entity such as a bank financial institution merchant service provider information service intermediary etc. an embodiment of the present invention may authenticate the customer and gather any interaction data. This initial interaction may include interaction with an automated service such as an IVR. For example the transient datastore may store customer profile data as well as analytics data that may include data relating to the customer s last interaction the problem resolved and whether there were any changes to the customer s account.

At step the system may capture the interaction data. The information gathered during the initial interaction with the IVR or other automated entity may be captured stored and or analyzed. Information may include current interaction data such as customer requests series of touch tones and underlying issues voice commands etc. During the interaction customer data may be received such as customer identity customer identifier account number etc.

Other information may be retrieved during the interaction such as account status geographic location data relating to any patterns etc. At step during the user contact the user may request a live agent. The user may also request a transfer to another system division unit etc. Other requests may be captured.

At step the host system may generate a key for the captured interaction data. Specifically a transient datastore may generate a key that is specific for the customer and the current interaction with the customer.

The key may refer to various forms of data which may include customer identification data e.g. name address demographics financials etc. account data e.g. balance late fees charges etc. prior interactions e.g. last interaction last request summary of prior contacts etc. current interaction e.g. issues identified via IVR interaction questions issues etc. and special instructions e.g. flags alerts warnings customer requests customer preferences etc. . The key may also include a reference to other data. The reference may in a format such as ASCII characters other character encoding schemes an XML string key to a datastore or other storage device a link a hyperlink code category visual link to data including images video etc. .

The key itself may be encrypted or hashed with varying forms of information. The information may depend on key size and or other factors. According to an exemplary application the key may include a plurality of identifiers such as a Producer ID e.g. fixed length a Consuming Client Component ID e.g. fixed length consuming client or component identifier may be one or more based on the number systems in the path a Data Sequence ID e.g. sequencing may be predetermined and configurable and a Data Sensitivity e.g. multiple levels may be configurable and or customizable . Other variations and other information may be included depending on the application and or environment.

At step the key may be passed to the agent or other recipient or receiving unit. According to an exemplary system the key from the transient datastore may have to traverse multiple devices systems components along the chain. This information may be used for proper routing to an agent other end user or destination. The key along with non sensitive data may be sent to the agent. Non sensitive data may refer to data that may be useful for the agent in corresponding with the customer for example.

According to an exemplary embodiment when the customer is forwarded to the live agent the live agent will have access to the key and other non sensitive data. Using the key the live agent may request additional information from the transient datastore. Also based on the receiving device an embodiment of the present invention may provide information without an affirmative request that might be useful or helpful.

At step the generated key may expire after a predetermined period of time or other threshold event. This prevents from the data being accessed again. The corresponding data in the datastore may be managed at another permanent storage for further analysis and reporting. Also selective data may be stored for other uses including analytics reporting feedback marketing data mining etc.

The embodiments of the present invention may be applied to various environments and applications such as the utilities industry e.g. electric gas phone etc. finance industry e.g. card loan etc. services industry e.g. airline hotel rental etc. to protect customer sensitive information such as account number name balance etc.

At step a host system may receive a request for data using a key. The host system may include a transient database that receives the key with a request for data. For example the agent may request additional information such as account information financial data etc. With this request the agent device may send the corresponding key generated for the current interaction. Another intermediate device may request additional data and in the same manner the intermediate device may send a request along with the corresponding key for the current interaction with the customer.

The elements of the key may be configurable and adjusted on the fly. According to an exemplary embodiment a client or component requesting data may send the generated key back to a transient data system. In addition to the key the client or component may also send a request including an application name client identifier and Domain Name System DNS name and or IP address port. An embodiment of the present invention may then authenticate validate the key and a corresponding entitlement for the particular client or component. Upon successful authentication validation the transient datastore may send the pre determined data set to the requesting client or component. The response message may then be sent back with an appropriate encryption corresponding to the data sensitivity.

An embodiment of the present invention may determine or identify what the requesting client or component needs. The determination may include determining what data is needed by the client component why the client component needs the data whether the client component will modify the data and how the system of record will be updated. The determination for each requester may be based on the basic principle of least privileges PLP . For example PLP may provide minimal user application privileges based on the necessity to perform the assigned function. Accordingly an embodiment of the present invention provides the specific data elements required for the client component to do perform its task or function.

At step the host system may authenticate the request using the key and an identifier corresponding to the requesting device. More specifically the transient datastore of the host system may authenticate the request by using the key confirming that the key is current and the same key generated for the instant interaction with the customer.

At step the host system may determine appropriate data. The host system may also identify the requesting device. Based on the identity or type of the requesting device a predetermined set of data may be identified. For example a routing device may need to know the subject matter of the customer s inquiry to direct the contact to an appropriate representative or recipient. Other relevant data may include the customer s initial interaction with the IVR or other automated entity such as current interaction data customer requests series of touch tones and underlying issues voice commands etc. Other information may be retrieved from the transient database including account status geographic location data relating to any patterns etc. Other data may include customer identification data e.g. name address demographics financials etc. account data e.g. balance late fees charges etc. prior interactions e.g. last interaction last request summary of prior contacts etc. current interaction e.g. issues identified via IVR interaction questions issues etc. and special instructions e.g. flags alerts warnings customer requests customer preferences etc. .

At step a determination may be made as to whether the data requested is sensitive. Sensitive may be categorized or otherwise identified as being sensitive or confidential. Such data may include a customer s account numbers financial history passwords customer identification information etc. Sensitive data may be identified by a flag category filter and or other indicator. Varying degrees of sensitivity may be identified.

At step if the data is sensitive an appropriate encryption may be applied. An embodiment of the present invention may recognize sensitive data and apply an encryption prior to transmitting the data to the requesting component. Depending on the level or degree of sensitive an embodiment of the present invention may apply a corresponding encryption algorithm. Other forms of security may be applied.

At step the key may expire after a predetermined time. For example after a predetermined period of time the key may expire thereby preventing access to any sensitive data. The key may expire after a predetermined time e.g. 4 hours after the interaction etc. a predetermined event e.g. at the end of the day etc. etc.

While the exemplary embodiments described herein may show the various embodiments of the invention or portions thereof collocated it is to be appreciated that the various components of the various embodiments may be located at distant portions of a distributed network such as a local area network a wide area network a telecommunications network an intranet and or the Internet or within a dedicated object handling system. Thus it should be appreciated that the components of the various embodiments may be combined into one or more devices or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network such as a telecommunications network for example. As will be appreciated from the following description and for reasons of computational efficiency the components of the various embodiments may be arranged at any location within a distributed network without affecting the operation of the respective system.

Data and information maintained by a Processor may be stored and cataloged in a Database which may comprise or interface with a searchable database. The database may comprise include or interface to a relational database. Other databases such as a query format database a Standard Query Language SQL format database a storage area network SAN or another similar data storage device query format platform or resource may be used. The database may comprise a single database or a collection of databases dedicated or otherwise. In one embodiment the database may store or cooperate with other databases to store the various data and information described herein. In some embodiments the database may comprise a file management system program or application for storing and maintaining data and information used or generated by the various features and functions of the systems and methods described herein. In some embodiments the database may store maintain and permit access to participant information transaction information account information and general information used to process transactions as described herein. In some embodiments the database is connected directly to the Processor which in some embodiments it is accessible through a network such as a communication network for example.

Communications network may be comprised of or may interface to any one or more of the Internet an intranet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line a Digital Data Service DDS connection a Digital Subscriber Line DSL connection an Ethernet connection an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN line a dial up port such as a V.90 a V.34 or a V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM connection a Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI connection or a Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI connection.

Communications network may also comprise include or interface to any one or more of a Wireless Application Protocol WAP link a General Packet Radio Service GPRS link a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM link a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA link or a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA link such as a cellular phone channel a Global Positioning System GPS link a cellular digital packet data CDPD link a Research in Motion Limited RIM duplex paging type device a Bluetooth radio link or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency link. Communications network may further comprise include or interface to any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fibre Channel connection an infrared IrDA port a Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI connection a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or another wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection.

In some embodiments communication network may comprise a satellite communications network such as a direct broadcast communication system DBS having the requisite number of dishes satellites and transmitter receiver boxes for example. Communications network may also comprise a telephone communications network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . In another embodiment communication network may comprise a Personal Branch Exchange PBX which may further connect to the PSTN.

In some embodiments the processor may include any terminal e.g. a typical home or personal computer system telephone personal digital assistant PDA or other like device whereby a user may interact with a network such as communications network for example that is responsible for transmitting and delivering data and information used by the various systems and methods described herein. The processor may include for instance a personal or laptop computer a telephone or PDA. The processor may include a microprocessor a microcontroller or other general or special purpose device operating under programmed control. The processor may further include an electronic memory such as a random access memory RAM or electronically programmable read only memory EPROM a storage such as a hard drive a CDROM or a rewritable CDROM or another magnetic optical or other media and other associated components connected over an electronic bus as will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art. The processor may be equipped with an integral or connectable cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD electroluminescent display a light emitting diode LED or another display screen panel or device for viewing and manipulating files data and other resources for instance using a graphical user interface GUI or a command line interface CLI . The processor may also include a network enabled appliance a browser equipped or other network enabled cellular telephone or another TCP IP client or other device.

The system of the invention or portions of the system of the invention may be in the form of a processing machine such as a general purpose computer for example. As used herein the term processing machine is to be understood to include at least one processor that uses at least one memory. The at least one memory stores a set of instructions. The instructions may be either permanently or temporarily stored in the memory or memories of the processing machine. The processor executes the instructions that are stored in the memory or memories in order to process data. The set of instructions may include various instructions that perform a particular task or tasks such as those tasks described above in the flowcharts. Such a set of instructions for performing a particular task may be characterized as a program software program or simply software.

As noted above the processing machine executes the instructions that are stored in the memory or memories to process data. This processing of data may be in response to commands by a user or users of the processing machine in response to previous processing in response to a request by another processing machine and or any other input for example. As described herein a module performing functionality may comprise a processor and vice versa.

As noted above the processing machine used to implement the invention may be a general purpose computer. However the processing machine described above may also utilize any of a wide variety of other technologies including a special purpose computer a computer system including a microcomputer mini computer or mainframe for example a programmed microprocessor a micro controller a peripheral integrated circuit element a CSIC Customer Specific Integrated Circuit or ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or other integrated circuit a logic circuit a digital signal processor a programmable logic device such as a FPGA PLD PLA or PAL or any other device or arrangement of devices that is capable of implementing the steps of the process of the invention.

It is appreciated that in order to practice the method of the invention as described above it is not necessary that the processors and or the memories of the processing machine be physically located in the same geographical place. That is each of the processors and the memories used in the invention may be located in geographically distinct locations and connected so as to communicate in any suitable manner. Additionally it is appreciated that each of the processor and or the memory may be composed of different physical pieces of equipment. Accordingly it is not necessary that the processor be one single piece of equipment in one location and that the memory be another single piece of equipment in another location. That is it is contemplated that the processor may be two pieces of equipment in two different physical locations. The two distinct pieces of equipment may be connected in any suitable manner. Additionally the memory may include two or more portions of memory in two or more physical locations.

To explain further processing as described above is performed by various components and various memories. However it is appreciated that the processing performed by two distinct components as described above may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single component. Further the processing performed by one distinct component as described above may be performed by two distinct components. In a similar manner the memory storage performed by two distinct memory portions as described above may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single memory portion. Further the memory storage performed by one distinct memory portion as described above may be performed by two memory portions.

Further various technologies may be used to provide communication between the various processors and or memories as well as to allow the processors and or the memories of the invention to communicate with any other entity e.g. so as to obtain further instructions or to access and use remote memory stores for example. Such technologies used to provide such communication might include a network the Internet Intranet Extranet LAN an Ethernet or any client server system that provides communication for example. Such communications technologies may use any suitable protocol such as TCP IP UDP or OSI for example.

As described above a set of instructions is used in the processing of the invention. The set of instructions may be in the form of a program or software. The software may be in the form of system software or application software for example. The software might also be in the form of a collection of separate programs a program module within a larger program or a portion of a program module for example The software used might also include modular programming in the form of object oriented programming. The software tells the processing machine what to do with the data being processed.

Further it is appreciated that the instructions or set of instructions used in the implementation and operation of the invention may be in a suitable form such that the processing machine may read the instructions. For example the instructions that form a program may be in the form of a suitable programming language which is converted to machine language or object code to allow the processor or processors to read the instructions. That is written lines of programming code or source code in a particular programming language are converted to machine language using a compiler assembler or interpreter. The machine language is binary coded machine instructions that are specific to a particular type of processing machine i.e. to a particular type of computer for example. The computer understands the machine language.

Any suitable programming language may be used in accordance with the various embodiments of the invention. Illustratively the programming language used may include assembly language Ada APL Basic C C COBOL dBase Forth Fortran Java Modula 2 Pascal Prolog RUM Visual Basic and or JavaScript for example. Further it is not necessary that a single type of instructions or single programming language be utilized in conjunction with the operation of the system and method of the invention. Rather any number of different programming languages may be utilized as is necessary or desirable.

Also the instructions and or data used in the practice of the invention may utilize any compression or encryption technique or algorithm as may be desired. An encryption module might be used to encrypt data. Further files or other data may be decrypted using a suitable decryption module for example.

As described above the invention may illustratively be embodied in the form of a processing machine including a computer or computer system for example that includes at least one memory. It is to be appreciated that the set of instructions i.e. the software for example that enables the computer operating system to perform the operations described above may be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium as desired. Further the data that is processed by the set of instructions might also be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium. That is the particular medium i.e. the memory in the processing machine utilized to hold the set of instructions and or the data used in the invention may take on any of a variety of physical forms or transmissions for example. Illustratively the medium may be in the form of paper paper transparencies a compact disk a DVD an integrated circuit a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk a magnetic tape a RAM a ROM a PROM a EPROM a wire a cable a fiber communications channel a satellite transmissions or other remote transmission as well as any other medium or source of data that may be read by the processors of the invention.

Further the memory or memories used in the processing machine that implements the invention may be in any of a wide variety of forms to allow the memory to hold instructions data or other information as is desired. Thus the memory might be in the form of a database to hold data. The database might use any desired arrangement of files such as a flat file arrangement or a relational database arrangement for example.

In the system and method of the invention a variety of user interfaces may be utilized to allow a user to interface with the processing machine or machines that are used to implement the invention. As used herein a user interface includes any hardware software or combination of hardware and software used by the processing machine that allows a user to interact with the processing machine. A user interface may be in the form of a dialogue screen for example. A user interface may also include any of a mouse touch screen keyboard voice reader voice recognizer dialogue screen menu box list checkbox toggle switch a pushbutton or any other device that allows a user to receive information regarding the operation of the processing machine as it processes a set of instructions and or provide the processing machine with information. Accordingly the user interface is any device that provides communication between a user and a processing machine. The information provided by the user to the processing machine through the user interface may be in the form of a command a selection of data or some other input for example.

As discussed above a user interface is utilized by the processing machine that performs a set of instructions such that the processing machine processes data for a user. The user interface is typically used by the processing machine for interacting with a user either to convey information or receive information from the user. However it should be appreciated that in accordance with some embodiments of the system and method of the invention it is not necessary that a human user actually interact with a user interface used by the processing machine of the invention. Rather it is contemplated that the user interface of the invention might interact i.e. convey and receive information with another processing machine rather than a human user. Accordingly the other processing machine might be characterized as a user. Further it is contemplated that a user interface utilized in the system and method of the invention may interact partially with another processing machine or processing machines while also interacting partially with a human user.

Further although the embodiments of the present inventions have been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the embodiments of the present inventions can be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the embodiments of the present inventions as disclosed herein.

