---

title: Identifiers for enterprise messages
abstract: A device of a first party may receive a message from a second party. The device may obtain mapping information. The mapping information may be associated with a third party verification that the enterprise identifier was assigned to the second party. The mapping information may be associated with mapping the enterprise identifier to a media identifier selected by the second party or the third party to represent the enterprise sender. The device may map the enterprise identifier to the media identifier based on the mapping information. The device may provide the media identifier with the message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09622051&OS=09622051&RS=09622051
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09622051
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150825
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 187 489 filed on Jul. 1 2015 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

An enterprise customer of a wireless service provider may utilize an enterprise server e.g. a message server to send a message to an individual customer of the wireless service provider. For example a bank may send an account access verification message to a customer via a network of the wireless service provider. The enterprise customer may be provided with an enterprise identifier e.g. a numeric code with which to send and or receive one or more messages.

The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

An enterprise client such as a company e.g. a bank a store a website etc. an organization e.g. a charity a trade group a government agency etc. or the like may provide messages to a large quantity of users. For example a bank may utilize one or more messages transmitted via short message service SMS messaging multimedia message service MMS messaging or the like to provide account verification codes to one or more customers of the bank. A messaging application server associated with a wireless service provider may assign an enterprise identifier to the enterprise client e.g. an alphanumeric code uniquely identifying the enterprise client with which to send and receive one or more messages. For example the bank may receive a six digit code that is displayed as a sender of a message from the bank. However the user may have difficulty identifying the source of a message from the enterprise identifier and may need to search the Internet to confirm that the sender of the message is genuine. Implementations described herein may map the enterprise identifier to a media identifier such as an icon e.g. a logo of an enterprise customer an image a video a sound or the like thereby providing a user of a mobile device with verification of the sender of a message.

As further shown in and by reference number messaging application server may request verification information from enterprise server . For example messaging application server may request that enterprise server provide information verifying that enterprise server is genuine e.g. is being operated by an enterprise client that is intended to be operating the enterprise server . As shown by reference number enterprise server may provide verification information and a media identifier that is to be associated with messages sent by enterprise server . For example enterprise server may provide information to messaging application server confirming an operator of enterprise server e.g. a company JennyCo and providing a logo a name or the like for the operator of enterprise server . The media identifier for the operator of enterprise server may be selected as having an increased likelihood of being recognized by a user of mobile device relative to an enterprise identifier. For example a recognized trademark of a company an advertising slogan of a company a sound associated with a company or the like may be selected as the media identifier.

As further shown in and by reference number messaging application server may provide third party verified mapping information e.g. mapping information verified for enterprise server and mobile device by application server associated with mapping a set of enterprise identifiers e.g. an identifier that is provided with a message sent by enterprise server such as a short code a long code or the like to a set of media identifiers. For example mobile device may provide an application programming interface API request for the mapping information such as a periodic request a request based on receiving a message or the like. Mobile device may store the mapping information e.g. via a data structure .

As further shown in and by reference number mobile device may receive a message from enterprise server . For example mobile device may receive from enterprise server a particular message that includes an enterprise identifier e.g. a numeric code 867 530 and a message e.g. an account verification code message for the user of mobile device . As shown by reference number mobile device may map the enterprise identifier to the media identifier. For example mobile device may utilize stored mapping information and may determine that the enterprise identifier corresponds to the media identifier associated with enterprise server e.g. the logo for JennyCo . As shown by reference mobile device may provide the media identifier with the message. For example mobile device may display the logo and the account verification code message via a user interface thereby providing a visual indication that the account verification code message is genuine e.g. is provided by the operator of enterprise server .

As shown in as another example messaging application server may include a media identifier repository which may include mapping information associated with mapping a set of enterprise identifiers to a set of media identifiers. Messaging application server may periodically receive one or more media identifiers e.g. different media identifiers updated media identifiers or the like for inclusion in media identifier repository . As shown by reference number mobile device may download a messaging application that includes mapping information e.g. the mapping information associated with mapping the set of enterprise identifiers to the set of media identifiers . For example messaging application server may provide mapping information as a resource of the messaging application rather than mobile device periodically performing an API call to receive mapping information.

As further shown in and by reference number mobile device may receive a message from enterprise server that is identified by an enterprise identifier. As shown by reference number mobile device may map the enterprise identifier to a corresponding media identifier included in mapping information . As shown by reference number based on mapping the enterprise identifier to the corresponding media identifier mobile device may provide for display the media identifier with the message thereby providing a visual indication of the sender of the message.

In this way mobile device may provide a media identifier that facilitates identification of a sender of an enterprise message. This permits mobile device to reduce relative to a message provided with a media identifier a likelihood of a successful phishing attempt by reducing a likelihood that a user misidentifies a non genuine enterprise message as being genuine. Moreover mobile device reduces a power consumption and or a network usage associated with mobile device based on providing information identifying the sender of the enterprise message rather than the user searching the Internet for the information identifying the sender of the enterprise message.

Some implementations are described herein as being performed within a long term evolution LTE network for explanatory purposes. Some implementations may be performed within a network that is not an LTE network such as a third generation 3G network.

Environment may include an evolved packet system EPS that includes an LTE network and or an evolved packet core EPC that operate based on a third generation partnership project 3GPP wireless communication standard. The LTE network may include a radio access network RAN that includes one or more base stations that take the form of evolved Node Bs eNBs via which mobile device communicates with the EPC. The EPC may include MME SGW PGW and or messaging application server that enable mobile device to communicate with network and or an Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS core. The IMS core may include HSS and or AAA and may manage device registration and authentication session initiation etc. associated with mobile devices . HSS and or AAA may reside in the EPC and or the IMS core.

Mobile device may include one or more devices capable of communicating with base station and or a network e.g. network . For example mobile device may include a wireless communication device a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a smart phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a personal gaming system and or a similar device. In some implementations mobile device corresponds to mobile device shown in . In some implementations mobile device may include information associated with mapping an enterprise identifier to a media identifier. In some implementations mobile device may operate a messaging application associated with receiving and or providing enterprise messages e.g. messages from and or to one or more enterprise servers . Mobile device may send traffic to and or receive traffic from network e.g. via base station SGW and or PGW .

Base station may include one or more devices capable of transferring traffic such as audio video text and or other traffic destined for and or received from mobile device . In some implementations base station may include an eNB associated with the LTE network that receives traffic from and or sends traffic to network via SGW and or PGW . Additionally or alternatively one or more base stations may be associated with a RAN that is not associated with the LTE network. Base station may send traffic to and or receive traffic from mobile device via an air interface. In some implementations base station may include a small cell base station such as a base station of a microcell a picocell and or a femtocell.

MME may include one or more devices such as one or more server devices capable of managing authentication activation deactivation and or mobility functions associated with mobile device . In some implementations MME may perform operations relating to authentication of mobile device . Additionally or alternatively MME may facilitate the selection of a particular SGW and or a particular PGW to serve traffic to and or from mobile device . MME may perform operations associated with handing off mobile device from a first base station to a second base station when mobile device is transitioning from a first cell associated with the first base station to a second cell associated with the second base station . Additionally or alternatively MME may select another MME not pictured to which mobile device should be handed off e.g. when mobile device moves out of range of MME .

SGW may include one or more devices capable of routing packets. For example SGW may include one or more data processing and or traffic transfer devices such as a gateway a router a modem a switch a firewall a network interface card NIC a hub a bridge a server device an optical add drop multiplexer OADM or any other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic. In some implementations SGW may aggregate traffic received from one or more base stations associated with the LTE network and may send the aggregated traffic to network e.g. via PGW and or other network devices associated with the EPC and or the IMS core. SGW may also receive traffic from network and or other network devices and may send the received traffic to mobile device via base station . Additionally or alternatively SGW may perform operations associated with handing off mobile device to and or from an LTE network.

PGW may include one or more devices capable of providing connectivity for mobile device to external packet data networks e.g. other than the depicted EPC and or LTE network . For example PGW may include one or more data processing and or traffic transfer devices such as a gateway a router a modem a switch a firewall a NIC a hub a bridge a server device an OADM or any other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic. In some implementations PGW may aggregate traffic received from one or more SGWs and may send the aggregated traffic to network . Additionally or alternatively PGW may receive traffic from network and may send the traffic to mobile device via SGW and base station . PGW may record data usage information e.g. byte usage and may provide the data usage information to AAA .

Messaging application server may include one or more devices capable of receiving generating storing processing and or providing information associated with a message. For example messaging application server may include a server device associated with verifying an identity of enterprise server receiving a media identifier associated with enterprise server e.g. an icon an image a video a sound or the like and providing information associated with mapping a corresponding enterprise identifier to the media identifier. In some implementations messaging application server corresponds to messaging application server shown in .

HSS may include one or more devices such as one or more server devices capable of managing e.g. receiving generating storing processing and or providing information associated with mobile device . For example HSS may manage subscription information associated with mobile device such as information that identifies a subscriber profile of a user associated with mobile device information that identifies services and or applications that are accessible to mobile device location information associated with mobile device a network identifier e.g. a network address that identifies mobile device information that identifies a treatment of mobile device e.g. quality of service information a quantity of minutes allowed per time period a quantity of data consumption allowed per time period etc. and or similar information. HSS may provide this information to one or more other devices of environment to support the operations performed by those devices.

AAA may include one or more devices such as one or more server devices that perform authentication authorization and or accounting operations for communication sessions associated with mobile device . For example AAA may perform authentication operations for mobile device and or a user of mobile device e.g. using one or more credentials may control access by mobile device to a service and or an application e.g. based on one or more restrictions such as time of day restrictions location restrictions single or multiple access restrictions read write restrictions etc. may track resources consumed by mobile device e.g. a quantity of voice minutes consumed a quantity of data consumed etc. and or may perform similar operations.

Enterprise server may include one or more devices associated with receiving generating storing processing and or providing information associated with an enterprise message e.g. a message provided by enterprise server . For example enterprise server may provide an icon representing an organization associated with enterprise server e.g. a bank a website a store etc. . Additionally or alternatively enterprise server may generate an enterprise message and may provide the enterprise message to mobile device e.g. via an enterprise messaging service of a wireless service provider being utilized by enterprise server and or mobile device . For example enterprise server may transmit the enterprise message e.g. a bank confirmation code a product offer etc. and the wireless service provider may route the message e.g. via the EPC the LTE network etc. to mobile device . Additionally or alternatively enterprise server may receive a message from mobile device . In some implementations enterprise server corresponds to enterprise server shown in .

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network e.g. an LTE network a 3G network a code division multiple access CDMA network etc. a public land mobile network PLMN a wireless local area network e.g. a Wi Fi network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a private network an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network a cloud computing network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in are provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. Additionally or alternatively a set of devices e.g. one or more devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of devices of environment .

Bus may include a component that permits communication among the components of device . Processor is implemented in hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software. Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU an accelerated processing unit APU etc. a microprocessor and or any processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions. Processor may include one or more processors that can be programmed to perform a function. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage device e.g. a flash memory a magnetic memory an optical memory etc. that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Storage component may store information and or software related to the operation and use of device . For example storage component may include a hard disk e.g. a magnetic disk an optical disk a magneto optic disk a solid state disk etc. a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a cartridge a magnetic tape and or another type of computer readable medium along with a corresponding drive.

Input component may include a component that permits device to receive information such as via user input e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch a microphone etc. . Additionally or alternatively input component may include a sensor for sensing information e.g. a global positioning system GPS component an accelerometer a gyroscope an actuator etc. . Output component may include a component that provides output information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component e.g. a transceiver a separate receiver and transmitter etc. that enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface may permit device to receive information from another device and or provide information to another device. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a Wi Fi interface a cellular network interface or the like.

Device may perform one or more processes described herein. Device may perform these processes in response to processor executing software instructions stored by a computer readable medium such as memory and or storage component . A computer readable medium is defined herein as a non transitory memory device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory and or storage component from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory and or storage component may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number and arrangement of components shown in are provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively a set of components e.g. one or more components of device may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of components of device .

As shown in process may include receiving mapping information block . For example mobile device may receive the mapping information associated with mapping a set of enterprise identifiers to a set of media identifiers. In some implementations mobile device may receive the mapping information based on receiving a messaging application. For example when a messaging application e.g. for receiving enterprise messages non enterprise messages a combination of enterprise messages and non enterprise messages etc. is downloaded to and or installed on mobile device the messaging application may include the mapping information which is third party verified.

In some implementations mobile device may receive third party verified mapping information. For example when mobile device e.g. a first party is associated with receiving an enterprise message with an enterprise identifier from enterprise server e.g. a second party messaging application server e.g. a third party may verify that the enterprise identifier corresponds to a media identifier intended to identify an operator of enterprise server . In this way mobile device may ensure that the mapping information can map an enterprise identifier to a media identifier based on verified information.

Additionally or alternatively mobile device may receive the mapping information based on requesting the mapping information. For example mobile device may perform a first application programming interface API call to obtain first mapping information as an API response that includes an enterprise identifier a media identifier and an indicator of a threshold period of time e.g. a time to live value indicating when the mapping information expires such as a 7 day threshold a 7 week threshold a 1 year threshold etc. . In this case mobile device may determine that the threshold period of time has elapsed and may perform a second API call to obtain second mapping information e.g. updated mapping information from messaging application server to replace the first mapping information. In some implementations the mapping information may not expire.

In some implementations mobile device may receive a set of media identifiers when obtaining the mapping information. For example mobile device may determine that the mapping information includes information associated with identifying a media identifier that corresponds to an enterprise identifier and includes the media identifier e.g. a text file an image file a sound file or the like . In this case mobile device may store the set of media identifiers via a data structure e.g. a local data structure a remote data structure or the like .

As further shown in process may include receiving a message from an enterprise sender block . For example mobile device may receive the message from the enterprise sender utilizing enterprise server . In some implementations mobile device may receive the message via a short message service SMS message a multimedia message service MMS message or the like.

In some implementations mobile device may receive the message from enterprise server based on requesting the message. For example when a user of mobile device requests multi factor authentication of login information for a website of a bank mobile device may receive an authentication code via a message from enterprise server which is associated with the bank . In this case the user may desire to verify that the message was provided by enterprise server rather than by another server associated with a malicious purpose e.g. operated by a sender performing a phishing attempt .

In some implementations mobile device may determine that an identifier associated with the message is an enterprise identifier. For example mobile device may parse the message and or information associated with the message to identify a short code a long code or the like that is associated with identifying an enterprise sender e.g. enterprise server . In this case mobile device may determine that the short code long code or the like is associated with identifying the enterprise sender based on the mapping information including the short code the long code or the like in a set of enterprise identifiers. In some implementations mobile device may determine that the message is an enterprise message based on determining that the identifier is an enterprise identifier.

In some implementations mobile device may verify the enterprise identifier as being genuine. For example mobile device may determine that a short code assigned by an operator of messaging application server to enterprise server is intended to be associated with enterprise server . In this way mobile device reduces a likelihood of a malicious user falsifying the enterprise identifier relative to failing to perform a verification on the short code of the enterprise identifier.

As further shown in process may include mapping an enterprise identifier of the message to a media identifier based on the mapping information block . For example mobile device may map the enterprise identifier of the message to the media identifier based on the mapping information. In some implementations mobile device may obtain the mapping information from a data structure for utilization in mapping the enterprise identifier to the media identifier. For example when the mapping information is stored via a data structure e.g. as a resource for a messaging application as storage after an API call or the like mobile device may obtain the mapping information to map the message to the media identifier.

Additionally or alternatively mobile device may request the mapping information based on receiving the enterprise identifier such as by requesting mapping information for a set of enterprise identifiers e.g. that includes the enterprise identifier requesting mapping information for the enterprise identifier or the like as described herein with regard to block .

In some implementations mobile device may determine that the enterprise identifier corresponds to the media identifier when mapping the enterprise identifier to the media identifier. For example mobile device may determine that the mapping information indicates that the enterprise identifier is associated with the media identifier.

As further shown in process may include providing the media identifier with the message based on mapping the enterprise identifier to the media identifier block . For example mobile device may provide for display via a user interface the media identifier with the message based on mapping the enterprise identifier to the media identifier. In some implementations mobile device may obtain the media identifier that is to be provided with the message. For example based on determining that the media identifier is associated with the enterprise identifier mobile device may obtain the media identifier e.g. a logo a name a name and a logo etc. from a data structure from messaging application server or the like.

In some implementations mobile device may provide the media identifier via a user interface. For example mobile device may provide a logo associated with an operator of enterprise server and a name associated with the operator of enterprise server via a user interface of a messaging application to identify the operator of enterprise server . In some implementations mobile device may provide the media identifier without providing the enterprise identifier. In some implementations mobile device may consolidate multiple messages into a single thread of messages that is identified by the media identifier when providing the media identifier for display. For example mobile device may determine that the message is provided by the same sender as one or more other messages and mobile device may generate a thread of multiple messages that includes the message and the one or more messages all of which are identified by the media identifier.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

In this way mobile device reduces a difficulty in determining an identity of a sender of a message e.g. an enterprise message by providing a media identifier relative to providing an enterprise identifier without a media identifier. Moreover mobile device may reduce network utilization and or battery utilization based on reducing a likelihood relative to providing the enterprise identifier that the user utilize a search engine via mobile device to identify the sender of the message.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

As used herein the term component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods described herein may be implemented in different forms of hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described herein without reference to specific software code it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Furthermore as used herein the term set is intended to include one or more items e.g. related items unrelated items a combination of related and unrelated items etc. and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Also as used herein the terms has have having or the like are intended to be open ended terms. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

