---

title: Home hub for IP multimedia subsystem (IMS) web services interaction
abstract: Systems and methods for home hub for IMS/Web services interaction are described. In one aspect, a data communication gateway operating as a home hub includes a processor that executes computer program instructions to provide IMS/Web services interaction to one or more client computing devices. The client computing device(s) are operatively coupled to the home hub. The client computing device(s) are not Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)-enabled devices. To provide SIP- or IMS-based services to such client computing devices, the home hub registers on behalf of the client computing device(s) to a SIP network. The home hub replies to SIP messages on behalf of the SIP network registered device(s) to process all SIP request(s) and provide the registered device(s) with corresponding SIP-based service(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392031&OS=09392031&RS=09392031
owner: T-Mobile USA, Inc.
number: 09392031
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150403
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 843 575 filed Jul. 26 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 003 044 and titled HOME HUB FOR IP MULTIMEDIA SUBSYSTEM IMS WEB SERVICES INTERACTION which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS is a standardized set of specifications that describes a Next Generation Network NGN with a generic architecture for Internet Protocol IP based telephony and multimedia services. Third Generation Partnership Projects 3GPP 3GPP2 enable and support the evolution of mobile networks beyond second generation 2G mobile systems such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and radio technology initially defined IMS. IMS was also adopted by other standardization bodies e.g. Wi MAX and TISPAN for their future networks. IMS uses Session Initiation Protocol SIP to control multimedia communication sessions such as video and voice calls over IP VoIP . Benefits of IMS core networks include for example VoIP and multimedia services as well as Instant Messaging and presence standardized interfaces reusable components and improved Quality of Service QoS mechanisms etc. . Telecommunication Service Providers TSPs are investing in and deploying IMS IP core networks to provide these benefits to subscribers.

TSPs with a legacy mobile network typically want to take advantage of IMS Application Server provided services. However due to limited protocol support and other limitations of device capabilities many legacy devices today lack implementation support for IMS services. Home telephones for example are often stand alone systems that communicate primarily using legacy wired telephone infrastructures. Although wireless home telephones are widely used they normally are not part of the more integrated infrastructure and information corpus with which our cellular phones and personal computers communicate. Such legacy devices cannot generally take advantage of IMS Operator provided services.

Systems and methods for Home Hub for IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Web Services Interaction allow consumer computing devices to access IMS services independent of whether the devices respectively support a Session Initiation Protocol SIP IMS client. To this end the consumer computing devices clients are operatively coupled e.g. via Personal Area Network or Local Area Network such as Wi Fi or Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT to a data communications gateway a home hub in the system. The data communications gateway connects to a communications infrastructure such as a home network the Internet telephony networks and other networks. The data communications gateway communicates with local communications devices such as handheld voice communication devices or handsets tablet media enabled devices etc. The gateway has one or more local ports that communicate with the local communication devices. The local ports can include a wireless network access point wired analog telephone ports a wireless telephone transceiver such as a Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT digital telephone transceiver and or other types of dedicated or networked ports such as Ethernet ports. In addition to network routing for use in conjunction with various types of connected devices the gateway provides for SIP IMS Web services interaction.

In one implementation for example the data communications gateway acts as a Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA Mobile Network Connectivity Function M NCF to provide a bridge between DLNA capable devices within the home network connectivity. The gateway also acts as a Media Interoperability Unit MIU to provide content transformation between devices in the home network and remote network.

As a hub the data communication gateway registers on behalf of all consumer devices to an SIP and or IMS network. Such registration may be based on IMS information including one or more of public and private user identities credentials and address of an IMS entry point. In one implementation such IMS information is stored in the data communication gateway or an add on device e.g. UICC . The gateway translates protocols used in IMS such as SIP Extensible Markup Language XML Configuration Access Protocol XCAP Real Time Protocol RTP and Message Sessions Relay Protocol MSRP into protocols supported by DLNA capable devices. As the gateway is aware of the connected DLNA devices the devices in the home network it forwards the content only to devices able to receive it. For example if several phones are connected an incoming call from outside can be forwarded to one several or all cell phones which are connected in the home network.

In one implementation the data communications gateway can bridge other networks e.g. networks using Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP or Google Wave technology based on XMPP . In one implementation and responsive to receiving requests in a particular native protocol e.g. HTTP or other protocol from a client device the systems and methods 

Jingle an extension of XMPP is utilized to set up manage and tear down multimedia sessions between gateway device and consumer devices operatively coupled thereto. Sessions can support a wide range of application types such as voice chat video chat and file transfer and use a wide range of media transport methods such as Transmission Control Protocol TCP User Datagram Protocol UDP Real Time Transport Protocol RTP or even in and XMPP. In the case of voice and video chat a jingle negotiation generally results in use of RTP as the media transport.

In another implementation media associated with a session are carried over HTTP and transformed as UDP TCP packets by the system data communications gateway according to RFC 3261 defined by IETF. Message Session Relay Protocol MSRP payloads are carried over TCP. In another implementation the gateway is an unlicensed spectrum home enterprise wireless access point a UMA GAN access point or a femtocell also called Home Node B by 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP .

In an alternate embodiment portable phones and communicate with data communication gateway via a Wi Fi communication link. In this embodiment the data communicated between portable phones and data communication gateway may be native UMA Unlicensed Mobile Access voice data.

Television displays various data received from data communication gateway such as program information video content audio content web site content and so forth. In the embodiment of television communicates with data communication gateway via a Wi Fi communication link using the DLNA Digital Living Network Alliance specification. Through the communication link with data communication gateway television is capable of communicating with Internet based web servers to retrieve content and interact with those servers.

Computer is shown in as a laptop or netbook style of computing device. Alternate embodiments may include any type of computing device such as a desktop computer a tablet a handheld computer a set top box a game console and the like. Computer communicates with data communication gateway via a Wi Fi communication link or other wireless communication system. In alternate embodiments computer may communicate with data communication gateway via a wired communication link using any data communication protocol.

Wired telephones and are traditional telephones that are coupled to data communication gateway via a traditional telephone cable. In a particular implementation data communication gateway includes support for two wired telephones. Alternate embodiments of data communication gateway include support for any number of wired telephones. In one implementation voice data associated with wired telephones and are communicated to other wired telephones via the Internet or other data communication network.

Data communication gateway also is coupled to network interface s which is coupled to a data communication network such as the Internet. Interface can comprise an Ethernet communications port for connection to an Internet data source or other wide area network source. Gateway may utilize other types of network interfaces. In some embodiments for example interface can be a radio or other wireless transceiver that transmits and receives radio frequency communications via an antenna. The radio interface may facilitate wireless connectivity between the data communications gateway and various cell towers base stations and or wide area access points.

Network interface s can communicate with a variety of web servers and other resources accessible via data communication network . Data communication network may include any number of data communication networks such as local area networks LANs home networks wide area networks WANs SIP enabled networks wireless networks e.g. Wi Fi Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT Wi MAX 3G LTE etc. wireline networks e.g. cable or DSL telephony service provider networks IMS networks and the like. Utilizing network includes for example network client end users e.g. connected to a home network mobile telephony operators offering traditional cellular Internet connection to mobile phones Internet Service Providers ISP IMS Operators providing IMS services to IMS devices third party application providers offering application services over the IMS network etc. In this particular implementation gateway is in a home network.

As used herein the term local device collectively refers to portable phones and television computer and wired telephones and . These devices generally are referred to as local devices due to their proximate location to data communication gateway and their ability to communicate with the gateway.

Processor executes various computer program instructions in memory to implement the functions described herein for IMS Web services interaction. Any number of program modules can be stored in memory . In this particular implementation program modules include for example communication module DLNA based modules IMS Web interaction module and other program modules e.g. device drivers an operating system etc. and data .

More particularly communication module allows data communication gateway to communicate with other devices and systems such as the systems and devices shown in . Additionally communication module allows data communication gateway to communicate with devices and systems via data communication network . In a particular embodiment communication module includes a Wi Fi communication interface DECT communication interface a Wi Max interface a Bluetooth interface that performs the function of transmitting and receiving wireless communications using for example the IEEE 802.11 802.16 and or 802.20 standards and various other data communication interfaces and protocols.

DLNA module includes Mobile Network Connectivity Functions module M NCF to provide a bridge between DLNA capable devices within the home network connectivity a respective portion of network . DLNA module further includes for example a Media Interoperability Unit MIU to provide content transformation between devices either in the home network and a remote network respective portions of network .

In one implementation for example the data communications gateway acts as an UPnP Universal Plug and Play control point which learns about device capabilities and provides content transformation between UPnP devices in the home network and remote network. In another implementation DLNA is used to determine non SIP device capabilities. The data communication gateway may utilize the discovered non SIP enabled device capabilities to forward SIP requests to only specific SIP service capable devices e.g. devices supporting any of the following mapped SIP services e.g. Voice over IP VoIP video instant messaging and presence . The data communications gateway may provide Network Address Translation NAT if IPv4 is used.

IMS Web interaction module interaction module allows consumer computing devices e.g. claim devices through of to access SIP and IMS services independent of whether the respective devices are SIP IMS enabled client devices. IMS services include all SIP extensions as defined in IMS. In this scenario the data communication gateway acts as an IMS client on behalf of non SIP enabled client computing devices. An IMS client refers to IMS phones IMS capable computing devices and so on. To this end the interaction module registers on behalf of all consumer devices operatively coupled to the data communication gateway . Interaction module translates protocols used in the IMS such as SIP XML Configuration Access Protocol XCAP real time protocol RTP and Message Sessions Relay Protocol MSRP into protocol supported by DLNA capable devices. Interaction module is aware of the connected DLNA devices the devices in the home network . Accordingly the interaction module forwards content only to devices able to receive it. For example if multiple phones are connected to data communication gateway interaction model forwards an incoming call from outside the home network to one several or all cell phones which are connected in the home network.

In one implementation interaction module bridges other networks e.g. networks using Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP or Google Wave technology based on XMPP . In some implementations responsive to receiving requests in a particular native protocol e.g. HTTP or other protocol from a client device interaction module 1 translates received requests into corresponding SIP methods directed to the IMS network and 2 translates corresponding SIP responses from the IMS network into the corresponding native protocol e.g. HTTP XMPP etc. for communication to the client and to provide the client with the requested IMS service s . In one implementation for example certain message translations are implemented via 

 URL including the arguments used to generate the corresponding SIP methods e.g. an XML document may be used and arguments could be based on the SIP Factory method defined in JSR 389 specification as an ASCII string identifiers of the sender from and recipient to .

In another implementation media associated with a session are carried over HTTP and transformed as UDP TCP packets by the interaction module according to RFC 3261. Message Session Relay Protocol MSRP payloads are carried over TCP. In some implementations data communication gateway in combination with logic implemented in interaction module operates as an unlicensed spectrum home enterprise wireless access point a UMA GAN access point or a femtocell also called Home Node B by 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP .

In one embodiment data communication gateway also includes a display a USB Universal Serial Bus interface and user interface controls . Display presents information to a user of data communication gateway such as operating information configuration settings and menu navigation information. USB interface allows data communication gateway to communicate with other devices using a USB port. A particular implementation of data communication gateway includes two USB ports. User interface controls may include one or more of buttons LEDs Light Emitting Diodes and the like to receive instructions from a user of data communication gateway and to communicate information to the user in combination with display as discussed above.

Data communication gateway further includes telephone interface for communicating with one or more conventional analog telephones such as wired telephones and shown in . Data received via telephone interface is communicated to other devices or systems connected directly to data communication gateway or coupled to the gateway via data communication network .

To illustrate this the data communication gateway after registering on behalf of one or more non SIP enabled client computing devices non SIP devices may receive a request from one of the devices over a non SIP network. In this scenario the data communication gateway will map the request to a SIP equivalent and forward the SIP equivalent to the SIP based network. Responsive to this forwarding the data communication gateway will receive a SIP acknowledgment. The data communication gateway maps and forwards the SIP acknowledgment to the requesting non SIP device. In this scenario media may be carried over IP protocols such as Real Time Protocol RTP and or Message Session Relay Protocol MSRP .

In one implementation the data communication gateway receives a SIP request from a SIP enabled device in a SIP network. The data communication gateway then forwards the SIP request only to end user selected non SIP enabled client computing device s . For example the user can identify via a web interface the particular device s to receive such requests into the home hub and dispatch received requests based on what the user has defined.

In this particular example the client computing device e.g. a device through operates a web browser to access Web server functionality in data communication gateway . Such Web server functionality is shown as a respective portion of other program modules and data . Here the interaction module translates a between the HTTP messages to from the client computing device and b SIP messages to from ISP IMS Operator . Via this interaction interaction module manages the identity of the client computing device in the IMS environment and provides non SIP clients that have HTTP capabilities with access to IMS services.

Exemplary XMPP SIP interactions according to one implementation wherein an XMPP user sends a message from a client device operatively coupled to data communication gateway follow 

To support receiving calls from the IMS the devices support long held HTTP requests which allow the data communication gateway to push data to a browser without the browser explicitly requesting it such as COMET if the data communication gateway acts as an HTTP including REST SIP gateway.

When data communication gateway acts as an XMPP SIP gateway it can support incoming and outgoing calls and messages e.g. instant messaging and presence .

Although the systems and methods for home hub for IMS Web services interaction have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological operations or actions it is understood that the implementations defined in the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or actions described. Rather the specific features and operations of data encryption and data communication are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed subject matter.

