---

title: Authorization and authentication based on an individual's social network
abstract: In particular embodiments, a method includes accessing a graph data structure comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting the nodes, receiving, a request to send content relating to the first user to the second user, and prohibiting sending of the content to the second user if the node corresponding to the first user and the second user are connected to each other in the graph data structure through a series of edges and nodes that comprises an unauthorized node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589023&OS=09589023&RS=09589023
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09589023
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150518
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 289 984 filed 29 May 2014 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 565 475 filed 2 Aug. 2012 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 782 753 on 15 Jul. 2014 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 897 766 filed 22 Jul. 2004 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 302 164 on 30 Oct. 2012 each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to authorizing activities and authenticating individuals and more specifically to methods for authorizing information flow to an individual and authenticating an individual for access to information or service based on that individual s social network.

One of the major benefits of the Internet has been the ease of communicating information to a large number of people. Some users have however been abusing this benefit by sending unwanted e mail solicitations known as SPAM to individuals over the Internet. The problem with SPAM has become so pervasive that some states have passed legislation prohibiting SPAM.

Further the open nature of the Internet has caused providers of content and service over the Internet to place controls on who may access its content or service. The controls are sometimes unnecessarily restrictive and the processes used to grant access tend to be overly cumbersome to the detriment of both users who might have benefited from the content or service and providers who might have benefited from revenues generated from these users.

The invention provides a method of authorizing transmission of content to an individual as a way to filter out unwanted communication such as SPAM or content that the individual might find to be offensive and a method of authenticating individuals for access to content or service that makes the content or service available to more users while limiting access to potentially abusive users of the content or service. In particular a service provider examines an individual s social network and a black list of persons that have been determined to be untrustworthy to determine whether to authorize transmission of content to that individual or authenticate that individual for access to information or service.

In a first embodiment of the invention the authorization is performed in connection with an e mail communication service. When an e mail communication with an individual is attempted that individual s social network is searched for a path between the sender and the individual. If the path exists and the path does not traverse through unauthorized nodes the e mail communication is authorized. If there is no such path the e mail communication is prohibited.

In a second embodiment of the invention the authorization is performed in connection with a search. When an individual enters a search query the search engine retrieves relevant search results for delivery to the individual. The search results that are delivered to the individual do not include content posted by those persons who are not connected to the individual in the individual s social network through authorized nodes.

In a third embodiment of the invention the service provider is a third party content provider. When an individual requests access to the content provided by this entity the entity examines its user base to determine if any of its users is related to this individual. If there is a relationship and the individual and the related user are connected through authorized nodes the individual is given access. If not access is denied to the individual.

In a fourth embodiment of the invention the service provider is a lender. When an individual applies for a loan the lender examines the credit ratings of members of the individual s social network who are connected to the individual through authorized nodes. If the average credit rating of these members is at least a minimum credit score the lender continues to process the loan application. Otherwise the loan application is rejected.

A social network is generally defined by the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two individuals. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two members is a measure of relatedness between the two members.

Degrees of separation in a social network are defined relative to an individual. For example in ME s social network H and ME are separated by 2 d s whereas in G s social network H and G are separated by only 1 d s. Accordingly each individual will have their own set of first second and third degree relationships.

As those skilled in the art understand an individual s social network may be extended to include nodes to an Nth degree of separation. As the number of degrees increases beyond three however the number of nodes typically grows at an explosive rate and quickly begins to mirror the ALL set.

The member database contains profile information for each of the members in the online social network managed by the system . The profile information may include among other things a unique member identifier name age gender location hometown references to image files listing of interests attributes and the like. The profile information also includes VISIBILITY and CONTACTABILITY settings the uses of which are described in a commonly owned application System and Method for Managing Information Flow Between Members of an Online Social Network U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 854 057 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 010 458 filed May 26 2004 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The relationship database stores information defining to the first degree relationships between members. The relationship database stores information relating to the first degree relationships between members In addition the contents of the member database are indexed and optimized for search and stored in the search database . The member database the relationship database and the search database are updated to reflect inputs of new member information and edits of existing member information that are made through the computers .

The application server also manages the information exchange requests that it receives from the remote computers . The graph servers receive a query from the application server process the query and return the query results to the application server . The graph servers manage a representation of the social network for all the members in the member database . The graph servers and related components are described in detail in a commonly owned application System and Method for Managing an Online Social Network U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 854 054 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 572 221 filed May 26 2004 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Graph servers store a graph representation of the social network defined by all of the members nodes and their corresponding relationships edges . The graph servers respond to requests from application server to identify relationships and the degree of separation between members of the online social network. The application server is further configured to process requests from a third party application to provide social network information e.g. the relationships between individuals for user records maintained in a third party database . The third party application makes the requests to the application server through an application programming interface API . The methods by which the social network information maintained in the system is shared with a third party is described in detail in a commonly owned application Method of Sharing Social Network Information with Existing User Databases U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 854 610 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 478 078 filed Jun. 14 2004 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention will be illustrated with the following four examples 1 authorizing an individual to communicate with a member of the social network by way of e mail instant messaging text messaging voicemail and other similar means 2 authorizing content made available by an individual to be transmitted to a member of the social network for viewing 3 authenticating a member of the social network for access to online content and 4 authenticating a member of the social network for access to a loan. In each of these examples the decision on whether to authorize the information flow to B examples 1 and 2 or to authenticate B for access to information or service examples 3 and 4 will be based on a black list and B s social network.

A black list used in authorizing information flow to a member examples 1 and 2 or in authenticating the member for access to a loan example 4 is defined with respect to the member. In the example given here a single black list is maintained for a member. However the black list may be defined separately for different types of activity. For example the black list used in authorizing e mail communication to B may be different from the black list used in authorizing content made available by an individual to be transmitted to B for viewing.

A black list that is defined with respect to a member is typically updated by that member. For example if B received an unwanted communication e.g. SPAM from D and L or while browsing profiles of other members in the social network came across D s content and L s content that B found to be offensive B will add D and L to its black list. This black list is shown in .

A black list used in authenticating a member for access to online content or service example 3 is defined globally with respect to everyone seeking access but it is maintained separately for each different online content service provider. For example a black list used in authenticating a member for access to information or service made available by a provider ABC is different from a black list used in authenticating a member for access to information or service made available by provider XYZ. This type of black list is typically updated by the provider of the information or service. For example if the black list shown in is ABC s black list this would signify that ABC had previously determined that D and L abused their online access provided by ABC and added D and L to its black list.

A gray list is derived from a black list and the social network of the member with respect to whom authorization and authentication is being carried out. In examples 1 2 and 4 the gray list is derived from the black list of member B and B s social network. In example 3 the gray list is derived from the black list of the provider of content or service to which member B is seeking access and B s social network. The gray list simply includes all members of B s social network who are one degree separated from any member of B s social network who is on the black list. The gray list derived from the black list of and the social network of would include C I J F and M and is shown in .

Alternatively the gray list may be limited to all members of B s social network who are i one degree separated from any member of B s social network who is on the black list and ii included in a path between the black list member and the member with respect to whom authorization and authentication is being carried out. The gray list derived in this manner would include members C and F but not members I J and M.

Individuals identified in the gray list of a member become non traversing nodes with respect to that member. A non traversing node with respect to a member is a node through which a connection to the member cannot be made. For example referring to and using the gray list of a connection from B to E cannot be made because the path from B to E traverses through C who is on the gray list and is a non traversing node. The connection from B to C on the other hand can be made because the path from B to C ends at C and does not traverse through C.

In the example given above the party that is providing the e mail communication service and the search engine service and carrying out the authorizations is the operator of B s social network. The invention is applicable to situations where the party that is providing the e mail communication service and the search engine service and carrying out the authorizations is a third party that has access to the database containing B s black list and information about B s social network. In such a case the third party will retrieve B s black list and a graph representation of B s social network from this database in accordance with the methods described in the application Method of Sharing Social Network Information with Existing User Databases U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 854 610 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 478 078 filed Jun. 14 2004. The third party carries out the remaining steps described above Steps in the same manner.

Also a person who is not a member of B s social network may be permitted to communicate with B if the person is identified in a contact list of a member who is not identified in the gray list and connected to B along a path that does not pass through a non traversing node. For example referring to G will be able to send e mail to B because G is identified in the contact list of G who is not identified in the gray list and none of the nodes connecting G to B are non traversing nodes. By contrast C will not be able to send e mail to B because C is identified in the gray list and E will not be able to send e mail to B because the only path from E to B is through a non traversing node C .

In an alternative embodiment a white list identifying all members of B s social network who are authorized to transmit content to B may be generated either real time or off line as a batch process and searched each time content transmission to B is attempted. The white list generated in this manner includes all members of B s social network who are connected to B along a path that does not traverse through a member identified in B s gray list and e mail addresses stored in the contact lists of members who are identified in the white list and not in the gray list. The white list can be further narrowed by limiting it to those members who are within a maximum degree of separation from B where the maximum degree of separation may be specified by either B or the operator of the social network.

The above examples of the white list the black list and the gray list store member identifiers e.g. A B C etc. to identify members of the social network. Other identifying information such as e mail addresses may be stored in these lists. In cases where the lists identify persons who are outside the social network the e mail address is stored in place of the member identifier. For example a SPAM e mail address not corresponding to any e mail address within the social network may be added to a member s black list. Any future attempts to send e mail from this e mail address will be prohibited pursuant to the decision block in Step of . Also if the SPAM e mail address added to the member s black list corresponds to an e mail address stored in a contact list maintained by a person in the social network the gray list that is derived from this black list will include the member identifier corresponding to the person who has the blacklisted e mail address in his or her contact list.

While particular embodiments according to the invention have been illustrated and described above those skilled in the art understand that the invention can take a variety of forms and embodiments within the scope of the appended claims.

