---

title: Power semiconductor devices having superjunction structures with implanted sidewalls
abstract: A semiconductor device has a drift region having an upper surface and a lower surface. A first contact is on the upper surface of the drift region and a second contact is on the lower surface of the drift region. The drift region includes a first semiconductor pillar that has a tapered sidewall and that is doped with first conductivity type impurities and a second semiconductor pillar on the tapered sidewall of the first semiconductor pillar, the second semiconductor pillar doped with second conductivity type impurities that have an opposite conductivity from the first conductivity type impurities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09515199&OS=09515199&RS=09515199
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09515199
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150102
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N00014 10 D 0145 awarded by the Office of Naval Research. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to power semiconductor devices and more particularly to power semiconductor devices having superjunction structures and to methods of fabricating such devices.

Power semiconductor devices are widely used to carry large currents and support high voltages. A wide variety of power semiconductor devices are known in the art including for example power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors MOSFET Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors IGBT Schottky diodes Junction Barrier Schottky JBS diodes merged p n Schottky MPS diodes Gate Turn Off Transistors GTO MOS controlled thyristors and various other devices. Modern power semiconductor devices are generally fabricated from monocrystalline silicon semiconductor material or more recently from silicon carbide SiC or gallium nitride GaN based semiconductors.

Power semiconductor devices can have a lateral structure or a vertical structure. In a lateral structure the terminals of the device e.g. the drain gate and source terminals for a power MOSFET device are on the same major surface i.e. top or bottom of a semiconductor layer structure. In contrast in a vertical structure terminals are provided on both major surfaces of the semiconductor layer structure e.g. in a vertical MOSFET the source may be on the top surface of the semiconductor layer structure and the drain may be on the bottom surface of the semiconductor layer structure . The semiconductor layer structure may or may not include an underlying substrate. Herein the term semiconductor layer structure refers to a structure that includes at least two semiconductor layers in a stacked relationship or to at least a single semiconductor layer having regions that are doped with different types of dopants.

A conventional silicon carbide power device typically has a silicon carbide substrate such as a silicon carbide wafer having a first conductivity type e.g. an n type substrate on which an epitaxial layer having the first conductivity type e.g. n type is formed. This epitaxial layer which may comprise one or more separate layers functions as a drift region of the power semiconductor device. The device typically includes an active region which includes one or more power semiconductor devices that have a p n junction and or a Schottky junction. The active region may be formed on and or in the drift region. The active region acts as a main junction for blocking voltage in the reverse bias direction and providing current flow in the forward bias direction. The device may also have an edge termination region that is adjacent the active region. One or more power semiconductor devices may be formed on the substrate and each power semiconductor device will typically have its own edge termination. After the substrate is fully formed and processed the substrate may be diced to separate the individual edge terminated power semiconductor devices if multiple devices are formed on the same substrate. In many cases the power semiconductor devices on the substrate may have a unit cell structure in which the active region of each power semiconductor device includes a large number of individual devices that are disposed in parallel to each other and that together function as a single power semiconductor device.

Power semiconductor devices are designed to block in the forward or reverse blocking state or pass in the forward operating state large voltages and or currents. For example in the blocking state a power semiconductor device may be designed to sustain tens hundreds or thousands of volts of electric potential or even higher voltages. However as the voltage approaches or passes the voltage level that the device is designed to block non trivial levels of current may begin to flow through the power semiconductor device. Such current which is typically referred to as leakage current may be highly undesirable. Leakage current may begin to flow if the voltage is increased beyond the design voltage blocking capability of the device which may be a function of among other things the doping and thickness of the drift layer. However current leakage can occur for other reasons such as failure of the edge termination and or the primary junction of the device. If the voltage on the device is increased past the breakdown voltage to a critical level which is referred to as the theoretical avalanche breakdown point the increasing electric field may result in runaway generation of charge carriers within the semiconductor device leading to a condition known as avalanche breakdown. When avalanche breakdown occurs the reverse current increases sharply and typically becomes uncontrollable. When uncontrolled such failures are generally catastrophic and may damage or destroy the power semiconductor device.

A power semiconductor device may also begin to break down and allow non trivial amounts of leakage current to flow at a voltage that is lower than the design breakdown voltage of the device. In particular leakage current may begin to flow at the edges of the active region where high electric fields may be experienced due to electric field crowding effects. In order to reduce this electric field crowding and the resulting increased leakage currents edge termination structures may be provided that surround part or all of the active region of a power semiconductor device. These edge terminations may spread the electric field out over a greater area thereby reducing the electric field crowding.

Conventionally a tradeoff exists in vertical power semiconductor devices between the breakdown voltage of the device and the doping level of the drift region. In particular to increase the breakdown voltage of the device it was necessary to decrease the doping concentration of the drift region and to increase the thickness of the drift region. Since the drift region is the current path for the device in the forward on state the decreased doping concentration in the drift region may result in a higher on state resistance for the device which may be undesirable in many applications.

Recently superjunction type drift regions have been introduced in which the drift region is divided into alternating side by side heavily doped n type and p type regions. In vertical semiconductor devices these side by side n type and p type regions are often referred to as pillars. The thickness and doping of these pillars may be controlled so that the superjunction will act like a p n junction with low resistance and a high breakdown voltage.

The drift region may comprise a silicon carbide semiconductor region that includes an n type pillar and a p type pillar . The n type pillar and the p type pillar may each comprise epitaxially grown silicon carbide layers that are doped with n type and p type dopants respectively via ion implantation. The number of charges in the n type pillar may be approximately equal to the number of charges in the p type pillar .

Pursuant to embodiments of the present invention semiconductor devices are provided that include a drift region a first contact on an upper surface of the drift region and a second contact on a lower surface of the drift region. The drift region includes a first semiconductor pillar that has a tapered sidewall and that is doped with first conductivity type impurities and a second semiconductor pillar on the tapered sidewall of the first semiconductor pillar the second semiconductor pillar doped with second conductivity type impurities that have an opposite conductivity from the first conductivity type impurities.

In some embodiments the semiconductor device may further include a third semiconductor pillar on the second semiconductor pillar the third semiconductor pillar doped with first conductivity type impurities. The third semiconductor pillar may for example have a doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities that is at least fifty times lower than the doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities in the first semiconductor pillar. The first through third semiconductor pillars may be charge balanced such that the charges in the first and third semiconductor pillars approximately equal the charges in the second semiconductor pillar.

In some embodiments the drift region may be formed on a semiconductor substrate. The substrate may be between the lower surface of the drift region and the second contact. The tapered sidewall may form an angle of at least 100 degrees with respect to an upper surface of the substrate. The semiconductor substrate may be for example a 4H silicon carbide substrate. In such embodiments the first semiconductor pillar and the second semiconductor pillar may each be silicon carbide pillars. A lower surface of the third semiconductor pillar may directly contact an upper surface of the substrate. An axis that is normal to an upper surface of the substrate that penetrates the tapered sidewall of the first semiconductor pillar may also penetrate an upper portion of the third semiconductor pillar. In embodiments that include a 4H silicon carbide substrate an active region of the semiconductor device may for example extend along the crystallographic direction of the substrate or may extend in a direction that forms a first oblique angle with the crystallographic direction of the substrate and that forms a second oblique angle with respect to the crystallographic direction of the substrate.

In some embodiments the semiconductor device may include an edge termination and the second semiconductor pillar may be between the first semiconductor pillar and the edge termination. The edge termination may comprise for example a plurality of rings in the third semiconductor pillar that are doped with second conductivity type impurities.

In some embodiments the third semiconductor pillar may surround the first semiconductor pillar and the second semiconductor pillar may be between the first semiconductor pillar and the third semiconductor pillar. In some embodiments the third semiconductor pillar may have a doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities that is at least fifty times lower than the doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities in the first semiconductor pillar. In other embodiments the first semiconductor pillar may have a doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities that is at least fifty times lower than the doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities in the third semiconductor pillar. A width of the first semiconductor pillar may in some embodiments be at least three times a width of the second semiconductor pillar.

Pursuant to further embodiments of the present invention semiconductor devices are provided that include a drift region having an upper surface and a lower surface a first contact on the upper surface of the drift region and a second contact on the lower surface of the drift region. The drift region of these devices includes a first semiconductor pillar that is doped with first conductivity type impurities and a second semiconductor pillar that is doped with first conductivity type impurities on the first semiconductor pillar. The second semiconductor pillar has a doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities that is at least fifty times lower than the doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities in the first semiconductor pillar.

In some embodiments. the semiconductor device further includes a third semiconductor pillar between the first semiconductor pillar and the second semiconductor pillar. This third semiconductor pillar may be doped with second conductivity type impurities that have an opposite conductivity from the first conductivity type impurities. The first through third semiconductor pillars may form a superjunction structure.

In some embodiments the first through third semiconductor pillars may be on an upper surface of a substrate and the third semiconductor pillar may have a tapered sidewall so that it forms an oblique angle with the upper surface of the substrate. This oblique angle may be for example less than eighty degrees or greater than 100 degrees. The drift region may be at least 5 microns thick in some embodiments. The first through third semiconductor pillars may be charge balanced such that the charges in the first and second semiconductor pillars approximately equal the charges in the third semiconductor pillar. The third semiconductor pillar may for example surround the first semiconductor pillar.

In some embodiments the drift region is on a 4H silicon carbide substrate and the first semiconductor pillar and the second semiconductor pillar each comprise silicon carbide pillars. In such embodiments an active region of the semiconductor device may extend along the crystallographic direction of the substrate or in a direction that forms a first oblique angle with the crystallographic direction of the substrate and that forms a second oblique angle with respect to the crystallographic direction of the substrate.

In some embodiments the semiconductor device may include an edge termination and the third semiconductor pillar may be between the first semiconductor pillar and the edge termination. The second semiconductor pillar may have a doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities that is at least fifty times lower than the doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities in the first semiconductor pillar. Alternatively the first semiconductor pillar may have a doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities that is at least fifty times lower than the doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities in the second semiconductor pillar

In some embodiments an axis that is normal to the upper surface of the substrate may penetrate both the tapered sidewall of the first semiconductor pillar and an upper portion of the second semiconductor pillar.

Pursuant to still further embodiments of the present invention methods of forming a power semiconductor device are provided in which a semiconductor drift layer that is doped with impurities having a first conductivity type is formed on a semiconductor substrate. A portion of the semiconductor drift layer is then removed to form a recessed region in the semiconductor drift layer and to define a first semiconductor pillar. Impurities having a second conductivity type that is opposite the first conductivity type are implanted into a first sidewall of the semiconductor drift layer that is exposed by the recessed region to convert a portion of the first semiconductor pillar into a second semiconductor pillar. A third semiconductor pillar may then be formed by forming a semiconductor layer in the recessed region.

In some embodiments the first sidewall may be tapered by an angle of at least 5 degrees with respect to a bottom surface of the semiconductor drift layer. The first semiconductor pillar may have a doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities that is at least fifty times greater than the doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities in the third semiconductor pillar or that is at least fifty times less than the doping concentration of the first conductivity type impurities in the third semiconductor pillar. The first through third semiconductor pillars may comprise silicon carbide pillars that together form a superjunction type drift region of the power semiconductor device.

In some embodiments the first semiconductor pillar may include an active or passive semiconductor structure herein a channel or a channel region that passes current in the on state and blocks voltage in the blocking state. The first semiconductor pillar may in some embodiments have a concentration of the impurities having a first conductivity type of at least 1 10 cm. In other embodiments the first semiconductor pillar may have a higher concentration of the impurities having the first conductivity type e.g. at least 1 10 cm while in other embodiments concentrations of lower 1 10 cmmay be used. The second semiconductor pillar may surround the first semiconductor pillar and charges in the second semiconductor pillar may approximately balance charges in the first semiconductor pillar. The impurities having the second conductivity type that are implanted into the exposed first sidewall of the semiconductor drift layer may be implanted along an axis that forms an oblique angle with a top surface of the semiconductor substrate. The impurities having the second conductivity type may be implanted into the exposed first sidewall of the semiconductor drift layer at an oblique angle.

Pursuant to still further embodiments semiconductor devices are provided that have a drift region having an upper portion and a lower portion a first contact on the upper portion of the drift region and a second contact on the lower portion of the drift region. In these devices the drift region includes a first semiconductor pillar that has a tapered sidewall a second semiconductor pillar on the tapered sidewall of the first semiconductor pillar and a third semiconductor pillar on the second semiconductor pillar.

Conventional power semiconductor devices having superjunction type drift regions may be formed in two different ways. First the drift region may be epitaxially grown on the substrate and then n type and p type dopants may be selectively implanted into the drift region to form the respective n type and p type pillars. The implanted dopants may be diffused throughout the pillars via for example thermal annealing. If necessary multiple epitaxial growth and ion implantation steps may be performed to form a superjunction type drift region having a desired thickness. In a second approach a drift region of a first conductivity type e.g. n type may be epitaxially grown on a substrate and then an etching step may be performed to form a trench in the epitaxial layer at a location where a pillar having the second conductivity type is to be formed. The sidewall of the trench may then be oxidized and the trench may then be refilled with the semiconductor material that forms the drift region that is doped with impurities having the second conductivity type. Either approach may be used to form superjunction type drift regions in for example silicon power devices. As will be apparent from the discussion that follows the semiconductor pillars that are used to form superjunction type drift regions are regions which extend from a bottom of the drift region to a top of the drift region and can have a variety of different shapes.

It has been discovered that the above techniques may not be very well suited for forming superjunction type drift regions in other semiconductor materials such as for example silicon carbide. For example the first conventional fabrication method that is discussed above may not work well in silicon carbide because n type and p type dopants do not tend to diffuse well in silicon carbide even at high temperatures. This is also true in various other compound semiconductor materials such as gallium nitride based semiconductor materials which dissociate before thermal diffusion can occur. As such even if large implantation energies are used in the ion implantation process which may have disadvantages in terms of manufacturing costs and damage to the semiconductor material a very large number of successive epitaxial growth steps followed by ion implantation may be necessary to obtain breakdown voltages on the order of several kilovolts given the thickness of drift layers of such devices. Such large numbers of growth and implantation steps may be impractical for large scale manufacturing operations.

The second of the above described conventional techniques namely forming a trench in the drift region that is refilled with semiconductor material of the second conductivity type may also be problematic in silicon carbide and certain other compound semiconductor materials because the breakdown voltage of the oxide layer that is formed between the n type and p type pillars is about the same as the breakdown voltage for silicon carbide. As a result during reverse bias operation tunneling into the oxide layer may occur that can result in leakage currents through the oxide or even destructive avalanche breakdown. Additionally in silicon carbide non uniform incorporation of the second conductivity type dopants may occur in the vicinity of the trench sidewalls during the epitaxial trench refill step which may make it difficult to control the charge of the second conductivity type pillar.

Pursuant to embodiments of the present invention power semiconductor devices are provided that have superjunction type drift regions which may overcome difficulties that may arise when attempting to form superjunction structures in silicon carbide or various other compound semiconductor materials. In some embodiments the superjunction type drift region may include a first semiconductor pillar that is doped with first conductivity type impurities that has a tapered sidewall that is doped with opposite conductivity type impurities. As used herein a pillar that has a tapered sidewall refers to a pillar having a sidewall that at least a portion of which extends at an oblique angle with respect to a bottom surface of the pillar. The portion of the tapered sidewall that is doped with opposite conductivity impurities may act as a second semiconductor pillar that may for example balance the charges in the first semiconductor pillar. By doping the first and second semiconductor pillars so that the product of the width of each pillar times the charge density in each pillar is equal a relatively uniform electric field profile may be obtained in the voltage blocking state which allows for higher blocking voltages than otherwise could be achieved. Moreover as both the first and second semiconductor pillars may have relatively heavy doping densities the on state resistance of the semiconductor device may be significantly reduced. Thus the semiconductor devices according to embodiments of the present invention may exhibit higher breakdown voltages than conventional devices while also having lower drift region resistance when the devices are in their on state.

Embodiments of the present invention further provide power semiconductor devices having superjunction type drift regions that include a first semiconductor pillar that is doped with first conductivity type impurities and a second semiconductor pillar that is doped with first conductivity type impurities on the first semiconductor pillar where the second semiconductor pillar has a doping concentration that is at least fifty times lower than the doping concentration of the first semiconductor pillar. A third semiconductor pillar that is doped with second conductivity impurities may be provided between the first and second semiconductor pillars. In some embodiments one or more of the first through third semiconductor pillars may have a sidewall that forms an oblique angle with an upper surface of a semiconductor substrate that underlies the drift region.

Example embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the attached drawings.

As shown in the JBS diode includes a substrate a drift region that includes a superjunction structure contact layers a blocking junction and a channel region .

The substrate may comprise for example a 4H silicon carbide semiconductor wafer that has an upper surface and a lower surface . The substrate may be heavily doped with n type impurities i.e. an n silicon carbide substrate . The impurities may comprise for example nitrogen or phosphorous. The doping concentration of the substrate may be for example between 1 10atoms cmand 1 10atoms cm. The substrate may be any appropriate thickness. In example embodiments the substrate may be between 100 and 500 microns thick.

The drift region may comprise for example a silicon carbide drift region that is formed on the upper surface of the substrate . In example embodiments the drift region may be between 5 and 100 microns thick. The drift region includes a superjunction structure that comprises a first n type silicon carbide pillar a p type silicon carbide pillar and a second n type silicon carbide pillar . The first n type silicon carbide pillar may have an outer sidewall . In some embodiments the first sidewall may be tapered i.e. angled from a vertical plane with respect to the upper surface of substrate . In the depicted embodiment the outer sidewall and the upper surface of substrate define an obtuse angle . In some embodiments the angle may be at least 95 degrees and less than 120 degrees. Other angles may be used. The first n type silicon carbide pillar may have an average width of Wand a charge density N. The charge density Nmay be substantially uniform throughout the first n type silicon carbide pillar in some embodiments. The charge density Nis the number of activated n type impurities donors per unit volume and may be measured as the number of donors cm. The charge density Nmay be directly related to the concentration of n type impurities that are doped into the first n type silicon carbide pillar . In particular typically only a percentage of the impurities that are doped into a semiconductor pillar e.g. by doping during growth or by ion implantation may become activated impurities i.e. charges . The percentage of dopant impurities that become activated may be generally estimated by a variety of known techniques.

The p type silicon carbide pillar may directly abut the outer sidewall of the first n type silicon carbide pillar . Consequently if the sidewall of the first n type silicon carbide pillar is tapered then the p type silicon carbide pillar may also be tapered with respect to the upper surface of substrate . The p type silicon carbide pillar may have a relatively constant width W. Thus if the sidewall of the first n type silicon carbide pillar is tapered then an outer sidewall of the p type silicon carbide pillar may also be tapered to form an angle with respect to the upper surface of the substrate . The angle may be the same as the angle . The p type silicon carbide pillar may have a substantially uniform charge density of N. The charge density Nis the number of activated p type impurities acceptors per unit volume and may be measured as the number of acceptors cm. The width Wof the p type silicon carbide pillar may be substantially smaller than the width Wof the first n type silicon carbide pillar .

The second n type silicon carbide pillar may directly abut the outer sidewall of the p type silicon carbide pillar . Consequently the inner sidewall of the second n type silicon carbide pillar may also be tapered with respect to the upper surface of substrate . The second n type silicon carbide pillar may have an average width of Wand a substantially uniform charge density of N. The charge density Nmay be substantially less than the charge density N. For example in some embodiments the charge density Nmay be at least 50 times smaller than the charge density N. In other embodiments the charge density Nmay be at least 100 times two orders of magnitude or more smaller than the charge density N. In still other embodiments the charge density Nmay be three to four orders of magnitude smaller than the charge density N. The sidewall of the first n type silicon carbide pillar may directly contact the p type silicon carbide pillar and the sidewall of the p type silicon carbide pillar may directly contact the second n type silicon carbide pillar .

Equation 1 assumes that a the heights of the pillars are substantially equal b that the lengths of the pillars are substantially equal and c that each pillar has a relatively constant charge density. If these conditions are not net Equation 1 may be modified accordingly. As noted above Nmay be much lower than N e.g. 3 4 orders of magnitude lower while Wmay be approximately equal to W. For example in a typical device the first n type silicon carbide pillar may be doped with n type impurities to a concentration of 1 10 the p type silicon carbide pillar may be doped with p type impurities to a concentration of 1 10 and the second n type silicon carbide pillar may be doped with n type impurities to a concentration of 1 10or 1 10. If the second n type silicon carbide pillar has a much lower charge density Nas compared to the charge density Nof the first n type silicon carbide pillar and Wand Ware relatively equal then Equation 1 effectively simplifies to 2 

Referring again to the contact layers include an ohmic contact layer that is on the bottom surface of the substrate a cathode contact that is on the ohmic contact layer a Schottky contact layer that is on a top surface of the drift region and an anode contact that is on the Schottky contact layer . The ohmic contact layer may comprise a material that forms an ohmic contact to the substrate . For example if the substrate comprises a heavily doped n type silicon carbide substrate the ohmic contact layer may comprise a silicon cobalt layer. The cathode contact may comprise a highly conductive metal contact such as a silver layer. In some embodiments the cathode contact may comprise a multilayer metal structure such as for example a Ti Ni Ag structure. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the substrate may be removed prior to formation of the ohmic contact layer and the cathode contact .

The Schottky contact layer may comprise a conductive layer that forms a Schottky contact with the silicon carbide drift region . In some embodiments the Schottky contact layer may comprise a nickel layer. The anode contact may comprise a highly conductive metal contact such as an aluminum layer.

The blocking junction may comprise a highly doped p type region in an upper portion of the drift region . As shown in in some embodiments the blocking junction may substantially or completely cover a top surface of the second n type silicon carbide pillar and may substantially or completely cover a top surface of the p type silicon carbide pillar . The blocking junction may also partially cover a top surface of the first n type silicon carbide pillar . The blocking junction may reduce the electric field to help shield the Schottky contact from the electric field when the device operates in the blocking state. This reduction in the electric field can be seen in which are discussed below. A channel may be provided between the first n type silicon carbide pillar and the Schottky contact . Current flows through the channel when the JBS diode is in its on state. The blocking junction may incorporate for example a MOSFET JFET BJT or thyristor type structure to allow controllable flow of current through the device.

The superjunction type drift region may be designed to be charge balanced between the alternating n type and p type pillars. In some embodiments the number of charges in the p type silicon carbide pillar may be equal to the sum of the charges in the first n type silicon carbide pillar and the charges in the second n type silicon carbide pillar . The number of charges in each pillar is a function of the density of the charges in each region and the volume of each pillar region . As the p type silicon carbide pillar may be much smaller than the first and second n type silicon carbide pillars the charge density Nin the p type silicon carbide pillar may exceed the density of charges N Nin both the first n type silicon carbide pillar and the second n type silicon carbide .

As noted above in some embodiments the second n type silicon carbide pillar may be a lightly doped n type silicon carbide region. For example the second n type silicon carbide pillar may have an impurity concentration and hence a charge density that is two to three orders of magnitude or more less than the impurity concentration of the first n type silicon carbide pillar . In such embodiments the number of charges in the first n type silicon carbide pillar may be approximately equal to the number of charges in the p type silicon carbide pillar .

Thus charge balance may be achieved in the drift region by controlling the widths and charge densities of the silicon carbide pillars . By designing the number of charges in the p type pillar to be substantially equal to the number of charges in the first and second n type pillars the electric field profile in the drift region of diode may be relatively uniform when the diode is in its blocking state allowing the diode to block substantially higher voltages than would be possible if the diode instead had a standard n type drift region structure. It should be noted that exact charge balance is not required and likely could not be consistently achieved. However even approximate charge balance may provide a much more uniform electric field profile and a resultant reduction in leakage current. Moreover because the first n type silicon carbide drift region which is the portion of the drift region that is under the channel has a high dopant impurity concentration as compared to conventional devices that are designed to block similar voltage levels the on state resistance of the JBS diode may be reduced substantially.

As noted above conventional methods of forming superconductor type drift regions that are used in silicon may not be commercially practical in silicon carbide and various other semiconductor materials. For example the first conventional fabrication method uses thermal annealing to diffuse dopants throughout one or both conductivity type pillars however such a technique may not work well in silicon carbide because n type and p type dopants do not tend to diffuse well in 4H silicon carbide even at high temperatures. As a result dopant impurities that are incorporated into silicon carbide by ion implantation cannot be readily spread out in either the horizontal or vertical direction by diffusion e.g. diffusion at elevated temperatures . In fact even if MeV scale ion implantation energies are used in order to more deeply implant the dopants many epitaxial growth and ion implantation cycles would be required to grow the drift region to a sufficient thickness to support kilovolt scale blocking voltages. Use of such high energy ion implantation increases manufacturing costs and may cause increased damage to the implanted layers. Thus forming a superconductor type drift region in a silicon carbide power device may not be commercially practical using the conventional grow and implant technique.

The second conventional technique for forming a superconductor type drift region is to grow an epitaxial layer that is doped during growth with first conductivity type impurities and to then remove a portion of this epitaxial layer via etching to form a recess in the epitaxial layer. Then a sidewall of the remaining epitaxial material may be oxidized and semiconductor material that is doped with opposite conductivity type impurities is formed in the recessed region. This fabrication method may also not work well in silicon carbide because the breakdown voltage of the oxide layer is about the same as the breakdown voltage for silicon carbide. As a result during reverse bias operation tunneling into the oxide layer may occur that can result in leakage currents through the oxide or even destructive avalanche breakdown. Additionally non uniform incorporation of the second conductivity type dopants may occur in the vicinity of the trench sidewalls during the epitaxial trench refill step which may make it difficult to control the charge of the second conductivity type pillar.

Pursuant to embodiments of the present invention power semiconductor devices are provided that have modified superconductor type drift regions that may allow commercial production of such devices in silicon carbide and other semiconductor materials. Similar to the second conventional technique described above in embodiments of the present invention an epitaxial layer that is doped during growth with first conductivity type impurities is grown on a substrate and a portion thereof is then removed via for example etching to form a trench or other recess in the epitaxial layer so that the epitaxial layer may be converted into a first semiconductor pillar. Second conductivity type impurities are then implanted into a sidewall of the first semiconductor pillar to form a second semiconductor pillar. As the second conductivity impurities may not be implanted deeply into the sidewall they may be implanted at a high concentration as compared to the first conductivity type impurities that are implanted in the first semiconductor pillar. A third semiconductor pillar may be formed that fills the trench or other recess. The third semiconductor pillar may for example be lightly doped with the first conductivity type impurities.

As shown in the semiconductor device includes a semiconductor drift region that has a plurality of first n type silicon carbide pillars a plurality of p type silicon carbide pillars and a plurality of second n type silicon carbide pillars . In the particular embodiment of each first n type silicon carbide pillar comprises a bar shaped pillar that extends along a first direction the y axis direction on the top surface of a substrate shown in . Each p type silicon carbide pillar surrounds a respective one of the of first n type silicon carbide pillars . As discussed above the p type silicon carbide pillars may be formed by selectively etching an n type silicon carbide layer that is formed on the substrate to form the first n type silicon carbide pillars and then implanting a heavy dosage of p type impurities into the exposed sidewalls of the first n type silicon carbide pillars to convert the sidewall regions thereof into the p type silicon carbide pillars .

Once the p type silicon carbide pillars are formed a second silicon carbide layer may be formed on the substrate . This second silicon carbide layer may be formed for example via epitaxial growth. In some embodiments the second silicon carbide layer may be lightly doped with n type impurities. Once the second silicon carbide layer is grown a planarization process e.g. chemical mechanical polishing may be performed to convert the second silicon carbide layer into the second n type silicon carbide pillars . As shown in the second n type silicon carbide pillars may be bar shaped and may extend in the y axis direction between adjacent ones of the first n type silicon carbide pillars . In the depicted embodiment the second n type silicon carbide pillars are connected to each other in the x direction at opposed first and second sides of the device and hence the second n type silicon carbide pillars form a continuous pattern on the substrate .

As is also shown in a plurality of guard rings surround the first n type silicon carbide pillars and the p type silicon carbide pillars . The guard rings may comprise edge termination structures. As known to those of skill in the art when power semiconductor devices are operated in the blocking state leakage currents may begin to flow at the edges of the active region as the voltage is increased. Leakage currents tend to flow in these edge regions because electric field crowding effects at the edge of the device may result in increased electric fields in these regions. As noted above if the voltage on the device is increased past the breakdown voltage to a critical level the increasing electric field may result in runaway generation of charge carriers within the semiconductor device leading to a condition known as avalanche breakdown. When avalanche breakdown occurs the current increases sharply and may become uncontrollable and an avalanche breakdown event may damage or destroy the semiconductor device.

In order to reduce this electric field crowding and the resulting increased leakage currents edge termination structures such as the guard rings may be provided that surround part or all of the active region of a power semiconductor device. These edge termination structures may be designed to spread the electric field out over a greater area thereby reducing the electric field crowding. Guard rings are one known type of edge termination structure. As shown in which is a cross sectional diagram taken along line of the guard rings may comprise spaced apart p type trenches that are formed in an upper region of an n type silicon carbide epitaxial layer that surrounds the active region of the semiconductor device . The n type silicon carbide epitaxial layer may be part of the same epitaxial layer that forms the second n type silicon carbide pillars and may simply be an extension of those pillars that surrounds the active region. While illustrate a power semiconductor device that uses several guard rings as an edge termination structure it will be appreciated that any appropriate edge termination structure may be used. For example in other embodiments the guard rings may be replaced with a junction termination extension. It will also be appreciated that the edge termination structure may be omitted in some embodiments.

As shown in the semiconductor device is very similar to the semiconductor device of except that the first n type silicon carbide pillars in the device of are arranged in rows and columns as opposed to the offset row column approach in the embodiment of . The p type silicon carbide pillars and the second n type silicon carbide pillars in the device are modified accordingly to surround the first n type silicon pillars . The superjunction structure comprising the silicon carbide pillars in the power semiconductor device may operate in the same fashion as the power semiconductor devices of and hence further discussion of power semiconductor device will be omitted.

As shown in the power semiconductor devices can be oriented on the wafer so that the pillars thereof which in the power semiconductor device are elongated pillars extend in the y axis direction and hence are perpendicular to the crystallographic direction and extend along the x axis direction i.e. the pillars extend parallel to the crystallographic direction .

The power semiconductor devices can be oriented on the wafer so that the pillars thereof which in the power semiconductor device are elongated pillars are tilted or angled with respect to both the crystallographic direction and the crystallographic direction. This can be accomplished via photolithography so that the etching masks are designed to run in a diagonal direction across the wafer or alternatively the major flat of the wafer may be cut so that it is not along the crystallographic direction but instead is at an oblique angle to the crystallographic direction. Whether or not the trenches etched into the n type epitaxial layer are aligned along a particular crystallographic direction of the wafer will impact the epitaxial refill process used to form the second n type silicon carbide pillars .

As shown in the electric field in the drift region of the device i.e. in the pillars is relatively constant although a small decrease in the electric field occurs in the channel region . is a graph that show the simulated electric field as a function of distance from the substrate in microns along the line B B of . As shown in the electric field potential in the silicon carbide drift region differs by about a factor of three i.e. from about 700 000 V cm to about 2 100 000 V cm . This is much more uniform than a conventional power semiconductor device that does not have a superjunction type drift region. The simulation shows that the device according to embodiments of the present invention will have approximately one half the on resistance of a conventional drift structure namely a resistance of about 13 ohm cmat 150 C. versus an on resistance of about 25 ohm cmfor a conventional drift region. Notably the simulated device of has a relatively large cell pitch and relatively low doping levels. If the cell pitch is reduced and the doping density increased the reduction in on resistance will be even more pronounced.

Referring to a mask layer not shown may be deposited on the n type silicon carbide layer and this mask layer may then be patterned via for example photolithography. The n type silicon carbide layer may then be etched via for example wet and or dry etching to remove a portion of the n type silicon carbide layer . As shown in the n type silicon carbide layer may be patterned to form a trench that exposes the upper surface of the substrate . The patterning of n type silicon carbide layer may convert the n type silicon carbide layer into a first n type silicon carbide pillar that has a sidewall . In the depicted embodiment the sidewall is a tapered sidewall . The tapered sidewall may be formed for example by performing a partially anisotropic etch. In some embodiments the tapered sidewall may form an angle of between about 95 degrees and about 120 degrees with respect to the top surface of the silicon carbide substrate . It will be appreciated however that sidewalls that form other angles may be used. It will also be appreciated that in some embodiments the first n type silicon carbide pillar may have a substantially vertical sidewall . The use of tapered sidewalls may also reduce the likelihood that voids form during a subsequent epitaxial growth process described below that is used to fill the recess . In other embodiments the tapered sidewall may be formed by controlling the plasma conditions of a reactive ion etching step or by transferring a tapered profile to a consumable hard mask such as for example a thick photoresist that has been reflowed via heating to produce a tapered angle.

The n type silicon carbide layer may be etched sufficiently so as to expose the substrate . The substrate may be heavily doped with n type impurities. For example the substrate may have a doping concentration that is two orders of magnitude or more greater than the doping density of the n type silicon carbide layer . Given the high doping level of the substrate the substrate will not turn p type during a subsequent ion implantation step involving p type impurities. The ion implantation step may also be performed at an angle see discussion below which may help shield the substrate from the p type impurities.

Referring to one or more ion implantation processes may be performed to implant p type impurities into the sidewall of the first n type silicon carbide pillar . The p type impurities may be for example aluminum atoms. The implanted p type impurities may convert a portion of the first n type silicon carbide pillar into a p type silicon carbide pillar . The p type silicon carbide pillar may be more heavily doped than the first n type silicon carbide pillar . For example the p type silicon carbide pillar may be doped with p type impurities to a concentration of for example between 1 10 cmand 1 10 cm. As the p type silicon carbide pillar is formed by implanting the sidewall of the first n type silicon carbide pillar an outer sidewall of the p type silicon carbide pillar may form an oblique angle with respect to the top surface of the substrate . This oblique angle may be the same as the angle that the sidewall of the first n type silicon carbide pillar forms with the top surface of the substrate . In some embodiments the dopant concentration in the p type silicon carbide pillar may be relatively constant as a function of vertical distance from the substrate . Since the p type silicon carbide pillar is formed in a portion of the first n type silicon carbide pillar after the p type silicon carbide pillar is formed the lateral width of the first n type silicon carbide pillar is reduced since the sidewall shifts inwardly and becomes sidewall as shown in .

In some embodiments the ion implantation process may vertically implant the ions into the sidewall of the first n type silicon carbide pillar . Such vertical implantation may be most effective when the sidewall is at a steeper angle with respect to the top surface of the substrate . In other embodiments the ions may be implanted at an angle that is offset from the vertical. For example as shown in the ions may be implanted along an axis that forms an acute angle with the top surface of the substrate . Such angled ion implantation may be particularly beneficial with vertical sidewalls or sidewalls that are only tapered a small amount from a vertical axis bisecting the substrate . The aspect ratio of the trench recess may limit how low the angle g can be set to while still allowing the ion implantation process to implant the full length of the sidewall . As is also shown in the impurities may be implanted into the sidewall at an oblique angle .

Referring to an epitaxial trench refill process may be performed to grow an n type epitaxial layer not shown in the recess formed by the patterning process described above with reference to . The n type epitaxial layer may comprise a lightly doped n type silicon carbide layer. The n type epitaxial layer may then be planarized by for example a chemical mechanical polishing process to expose the top surfaces of the first n type silicon carbide pillar and the p type silicon carbide pillar . This planarization process may convert the n type epitaxial layer into a second n type silicon carbide pillar . The second n type silicon carbide pillar may directly contact the exposed sidewall of the p type silicon carbide pillar and may also directly contact the top surface of the silicon carbide substrate . The widths and doping densities of the pillars may be designed so that a semiconductor device that is formed from these pillars may be charge balanced i.e. the total number of p type charges may approximately equal the total number of n type charges as described above. The recess may be oriented with respect to the substrate in a manner that facilitates growth of a high quality epitaxial layer on the substrate .

The first n type silicon carbide pillar the p type silicon carbide pillar and the second n type silicon carbide pillar together form a drift region of the semiconductor device that has a superjunction structure. This superjunction type drift region may be formed in some embodiments in four steps as shown in regardless of the vertical thickness of the drift region . If the second n type silicon carbide pillar is only lightly doped then the charge in this region may have little or no impact on the overall charge balance of the superjunction structure. In some embodiments the second n type silicon carbide pillar may be an undoped pillar.

Referring to a heavily doped p type region may be formed in upper regions of the first n type silicon carbide pillar the p type silicon carbide pillar and the second n type silicon carbide pillar to form a blocking junction . The blocking junction defines a channel region in an upper portion of the first n type silicon carbide pillar . When the semiconductor device is in its on state current will flow through the channel region . Contact structures may also be added to the device. As shown in the contact structures may include for example an ohmic contact layer that is on the bottom surface of the substrate a cathode contact that is on the ohmic contact layer a Schottky contact layer that is on a top surface of the drift region and an anode contact that is on the Schottky contact layer .

The device illustrated in is a JBS diode. However it will be appreciated that other power semiconductor devices such as for example Schottky diodes MOSFETs JFETs and other power semiconductor devices may be formed to have superjunction drift regions according to embodiments of the present invention. It will also be appreciated that the superjunction drift regions disclosed herein and the methods of forming devices including such superjunction drift regions may also be used with bipolar junction transistors BJTs PiN diodes GTOs IGBTs MOS controlled thyristors or other bipolar semiconductor devices as such devices can for example be formed to operate primarily in a unipolar regime.

While not shown in edge termination structures such as for example guard rings junction termination extensions field plates mesa terminations and the like may also be formed to complete the semiconductor device. The lightly doped second n type pillar may allow the electric field to spread quickly in the lateral direction which may allow a standard guard ring termination to be used. It will also be appreciated that the edge terminations need not be located in the upper surface of the drift region but may alternatively or additionally be located within center portions along a vertical axis of the drift region.

While the above described embodiments of the present invention first form a heavily doped n type semiconductor pillar then form the p type pillar and lastly form a lightly doped n type semiconductor pillar in the recess it will be appreciated that in each of the above described embodiments the first pillar that is formed may be lightly doped and the third pillar that is formed may be heavily doped. Thus for example in the embodiment of the first n type silicon carbide pillar could instead by a very lightly doped pillar while the second n type silicon carbide pillar could be more heavily doped. The location of the blocking junction would be changed so that the blocking junction covers the lightly doped pillar and the p type pillar and perhaps part of the heavily doped pillar. The same change could be made to each of the embodiments described herein. In embodiments where the lightly doped pillar is formed first the taper of the sidewall of the heavily doped region is reversed i.e. the heavily doped pillar will now have a greater width adjacent the blocking junction and a smaller width adjacent the substrate as compared to the embodiment of where the heavily doped pillar has a smaller width adjacent the blocking junction and a greater width adjacent the substrate . This may be useful for tailoring electric field profiles in the blocking state.

While in the description above the example embodiments are described with respect to semiconductor devices that have n type substrates and channels in n type portions of the drift layers it will be appreciated that opposite conductivity type devices may be formed by simply reversing the conductivity of the n type and p type layers in each of the above embodiments. Thus it will be appreciated that the present invention covers both n type and p type devices.

The power semiconductor devices and methods of forming the same according to embodiments of the present invention may provide a number of advantages as compared to prior art techniques. For example by forming the p type pillars in the sidewalls of n type pillars p type pillars may be formed using a single ion implantation step even when very thick drift regions are used. The semiconductor devices according to embodiments of the present invention may also be formed with in some cases as few as two epitaxial growth steps. The resulting devices may block higher voltages and exhibit lower on state resistance than comparable conventional power semiconductor devices.

The power semiconductor devices according to embodiments of the present invention may be more lightly doped at the edge regions than conventional power semiconductor devices as the second n type pillar may be very lightly doped. This may be advantageous as it may allow the use of simpler junction terminations such as guard rings that may not be suitable for use when the edge regions of the device are more heavily doped.

It will be appreciated that many modifications may be made to the example embodiments that are described above and pictured in the attached figures without departing from the scope of the present invention. By way of example while pillars having example shapes have been shown and described it will be appreciated that the pillars may have any appropriate shape. Preferably the n type and p type pillars are substantially charge balanced although it will be appreciated that some mismatch in charge balance may be tolerated while still obtaining some benefits albeit possibly at reduced levels of performance improvement. It will also be appreciated that the lateral size of the pillars may be selected so that the charges in the n type and p type regions sufficiently interact to achieve charge balance. The acceptable distance may be a function of the doping concentration. Typically the width of the first n type pillar will be between about 2 microns and about 50 microns although these numbers may vary depending upon other factors such as the type of the device the designed blocking voltage and the like. It will also be appreciated that the number of pillars may be modified. For example multiple alternating n type and p type pillars may be provided in some embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention have been described above with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. It will be appreciated however that this invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth above. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. are used throughout this specification to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. The term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Relative terms such as below or above or upper or lower or top or bottom or horizontal or lateral or vertical may be used herein to describe a relationship of one element layer or region to another element layer or region as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected.

Some embodiments of the invention are described with reference to semiconductor layers and or regions which are characterized as having a conductivity type such as n type or p type which refers to the majority carrier concentration in the layer and or region. Thus n type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of negatively charged electrons while p type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of positively charged holes. Some material may be designated with a or as in n n p p n n p p or the like to indicate a relatively larger or smaller concentration of majority carriers compared to another layer or region. However such notation does not imply the existence of a particular concentration of majority or minority carriers in a layer or region.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

