---

title: Turbine airfoil tip shelf and squealer pocket cooling
abstract: An airfoil includes a pressure surface and a suction surface extending from a root section of the airfoil to a tip section of the airfoil. The airfoil also includes a leading edge and a trailing edge defining a chord length of the airfoil therebetween. The airfoil further includes a tip shelf formed along the tip section of the airfoil between the pressure surface and a tip shelf wall. The tip shelf wall is spaced between the pressure surface and the suction surface and the tip shelf extends from within 10% of the chord length measured from the leading edge to within 10% of the chord length measured from the trailing edge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429027&OS=09429027&RS=09429027
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 09429027
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150624
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 250 166 filed on Apr. 10 2014 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 440 297 filed on Apr. 5 2012. application Ser. No. 14 250 166 and application Ser. No. 13 440 297 are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by Department of the Air Force. The Federal Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates generally to turbomachinery and specifically to turbine rotor components. In particular the invention concerns rotor blades for a gas turbine engine.

Gas turbine engines are rotary type combustion turbine engines built around a power core made up of a compressor combustor and turbine arranged in flow series with an upstream inlet and downstream exhaust. The compressor compresses air from the inlet which is mixed with fuel in the combustor and ignited to generate hot combustion gas. The turbine extracts energy from the expanding combustion gas and drives the compressor via a common shaft. Energy is delivered in the form of rotational energy in the shaft reactive thrust from the exhaust or both.

Gas turbine engines provide efficient reliable power for a wide range of applications including aviation and industrial power generation. Smaller scale engines such as auxiliary power units typically utilize a one spool design with co rotating compressor and turbine sections. Larger scale jet engines and industrial gas turbines are generally arranged into a number of coaxially nested spools which operate at different pressures and temperatures and rotate at different speeds.

The individual compressor and turbine sections in each spool are subdivided into a number of stages which are formed of alternating rows of rotor blade and stator vane airfoils. The airfoils are shaped to turn accelerate and compress the working fluid flow or to generate lift for conversion to rotational energy in the turbine.

Aviation applications include turbojet turbofan turboprop and turboshaft engines. In turbojet engines thrust is generated primarily from the exhaust. Modern fixed wing aircraft generally employ turbofan and turboprop designs in which the low pressure spool is coupled to a propulsion fan or propeller. Turboshaft engines are typically used on rotary wing aircraft including helicopters.

Turbofan engines are commonly divided into high and low bypass configurations. High bypass turbofans generate thrust primarily from the fan which drives airflow through a bypass duct oriented around the engine core. This design is common on commercial aircraft and military transports where noise and fuel efficiency are primary concerns. Low bypass turbofans generate proportionally more thrust from the exhaust flow providing greater specific thrust for use on high performance aircraft including supersonic jet fighters. Unducted open rotor turbofans and ducted propeller engines are also known in a variety of counter rotating and aft mounted configurations.

Turbofan engine performance depends on precise control of the working fluid flow including flow across the airfoil tip. Where clearance abrasion and temperature effects are of concern moreover these factors often pose competing design demands on compressor and turbine rotor geometry particularly in the tip region of the airfoil.

In one aspect of the invention an airfoil includes a pressure surface and a suction surface extending from a root section of the airfoil to a tip section of the airfoil. The airfoil also includes a leading edge and a trailing edge defining a chord length of the airfoil therebetween. The airfoil further includes a tip shelf formed along the tip section of the airfoil between the pressure surface and a tip shelf wall. The tip shelf wall is spaced between the pressure surface and the suction surface and the tip shelf extends from within 10 of the chord length measured from the leading edge to within 10 of the chord length measured from the trailing edge.

In another aspect of the invention a gas turbine engine blade includes an airfoil comprising convex and concave surfaces extending from a root section to a tip section and from a leading edge to a trailing edge the leading and trailing edges defining a chord length therebetween. The gas turbine engine blade also includes a tip shelf defining an open perimeter recess between the concave surface and a tip shelf wall. The tip shelf wall is spaced between the convex surface and the concave surface and the open perimeter recess extends from a region within 5 of the chord length measured from the leading edge of the airfoil to a region within 5 of the chord length measured from the trailing edge of the airfoil.

Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other aspects and embodiments of the present invention are possible in view of the entirety of the present disclosure including the accompanying figures.

While the above identified drawing figures set forth one or more embodiments of the invention other embodiments are also contemplated. In all cases this disclosure presents the invention by way of representation and not limitation. It should be understood that numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art which fall within the scope and spirit of the principles of the invention. The figures may not be drawn to scale and applications and embodiments of the present invention may include features and components not specifically shown in the drawings. Like reference numerals identify similar structural elements.

In the two spool high bypass configuration of compressor section includes low pressure compressor and high pressure compressor . Turbine section includes high pressure turbine and low pressure turbine .

Low pressure compressor is rotationally coupled to low pressure turbine via low pressure shaft forming the low pressure spool or low spool. High pressure compressor is rotationally coupled to high pressure turbine via high pressure shaft forming the high pressure spool or high spool.

In operation of gas turbine engine fan accelerates air flow from inlet through bypass duct generating thrust. The core airflow is compressed in low pressure compressor and high pressure compressor then mixed with fuel in combustor and ignited to generate combustion gas.

The combustion gas expands to drive high and low pressure turbines and which are rotationally coupled to high pressure compressor and low pressure compressor respectively. Expanded combustion gases exit through exhaust nozzle which is shaped to generate additional thrust from the exhaust gas flow.

In advanced turbofan designs low pressure shaft is coupled to fan via geared drive mechanism providing improved fan speed control for increased efficiency and reduced engine noise. Propulsion fan may also function as a first stage compressor for gas turbine engine with low pressure compressor performing as an intermediate stage compressor or booster. Alternatively the low pressure compressor stages are absent and air from fan is provided directly to high pressure compressor or to an independently rotating intermediate compressor spool.

Gas turbine engine thus encompasses a range of different shaft and spool geometries including one spool two spool and three spool configurations in both co rotating and counter rotating designs. Gas turbine engine may also be configured as a low bypass turbofan an open rotor turbofan a ducted or unducted propeller engine or an industrial gas turbine.

As installed in the fan or compressor section of a gas turbine engine or other turbomachine airfoil extends axially from leading edge to trailing edge and radially from root section adjacent inner diameter platform to tip section . Root section typically has fillet radius R along leading edge trailing edge or both forming a smooth aerodynamic and stress relief transition to platform with attachment .

Pressure surface front and suction surface back extend axially from leading edge to trailing edge defining the profile of airfoil therebetween. Pressure concave surface and suction convex surface extend radially from root section and platform to tip section defining span height H of airfoil .

Tip shelf forms an open radial recess along tip section of airfoil extending axially from leading edge to trailing edge along pressure surface . Squealer pocket forms a closed radial recess in tip section of airfoil extending axially from leading edge to trailing edge between pressure surface and suction surface .

When airfoil is exposed to high temperature flow for example in the turbine and high pressure compressor sections of a low bypass turbofan for military applications tip section experiences oxidation erosion burn through and other high temperature effects. To address this problem tip section of airfoil is formed with a combined tip shelf and squealer pocket structure with tip shelf extending along pressure surface adjacent squealer tip cavity between tip shelf and suction surface .

Squealer tip cavity or squealer pocket maintains a region or pocket of cooling fluid e.g. air along tip section of airfoil between pressure surface and suction surface . Tip shelf maintains a region or pocket of cooling fluid along pressure surface between leading edge and trailing edge in tip section . The pockets of cooling fluid provide a more uniform cooling temperature along tip section for better oxidation resistance reduced erosion and less burn through.

As shown in tip shelf defines an open perimeter radial recess in tip section of airfoil . That is the tip shelf recess is open along pressure surface extending axially from leading edge to trailing edge with tip shelf defined between pressure surface and vertical wall .

Vertical tip shelf wall extends radially or vertically upward from tip shelf as shown in adjacent squealer tip cavity . Tip shelf wall also extends axially along tip section from leading edge to trailing edge . Tip shelf wall is thus defined between tip shelf and squealer tip cavity spaced from pressure surface by tip shelf and spaced from suction surface by squealer tip cavity .

Tip shelf wall defines an open perimeter cavity for tip shelf extending more than 90 of chord length L between leading edge and trailing edge of airfoil at tip section or more than 95 of the chord length. In particular tip shelf extends along tip section of airfoil for substantially all of chord length L including leading edge region A within 5 10 of chord length L from leading edge midchord region B between 5 10 and 90 95 of chord length L and trailing edge region C within 5 10 of chord length L from trailing edge .

In this configuration tip shelf extends substantially all of the way along pressure surface to trailing edge for example within 2 or 5 of chord length L of trailing edge in order to prevent localized oxidation in this region. Similarly tip shelf extends substantially all of the way along pressure surface to leading edge for example within 2 or 5 of chord length L of leading edge in order to prevent localized oxidation in that region.

Squealer tip cavity defines a closed perimeter radial recess in tip section of airfoil between tip shelf wall and squealer tip wall . Squealer tip wall extends axially along suction surface of airfoil at tip section from leading edge to trailing edge .

Squealer tip wall is coextensive with suction surface and spaced from tip shelf wall by squealer tip cavity in midchord region B. Tip shelf wall and squealer tip wall meet in leading edge region A along leading edge and in trailing edge region C along trailing edge .

First tip shelf and second squealer tip walls and define a closed perimeter cavity for squealer tip cavity where cavity extends for more than 75 of chord length L but less than 90 of chord length L. In particular squealer tip cavity extends along tip section of airfoil through midchord region B to leading edge region A within 5 10 of chord length L from leading edge . Squealer tip cavity also extends along through midchord region B to terminate in aft region D at least 10 25 of chord length L from trailing edge .

Squealer tip cavity does not extend into trailing edge region C within 5 10 of chord length L from trailing edge . Thus tip shelf is longer than squealer tip cavity along chord L. This configuration decreases tip leakage over substantially the entire length of airfoil along tip section improving rotor stage efficiency by reducing the tip loss penalty.

Airfoil also includes internal cooling channels . Internal cooling channels provide cooling fluid i.e. air flow to tip shelf via tip shelf cooling holes and to squealer tip cavity via squealer tip cooling holes . In some designs internal cooling channels also provide additional cooling flow for example to trailing edge cooling holes or cooling slots along trailing edge . In additional designs leading edge is provided with additional structure such as leading edge indentation recessed trench which reduces the heatflux into the leading edge airfoil and increases the residence time of the leading edge showerhead film cooling in the recess trenched region improving the heat transfer and flow characteristics along the leading edge stagnation region.

Tip shelf cooling holes maintain a pocket or region of cooling fluid in tip shelf recess extending between tip shelf wall and pressure surface of airfoil from leading edge to trailing edge along tip section . Squealer tip cooling holes maintain a pocket or region of cooling fluid in squealer tip recess extending between tip shelf wall and squealer tip wall from leading edge toward trailing edge along tip section . In addition tip shelf wall forms a lip of metal between tip shelf and squealer tip cavity increasing heat loss and reducing leakage across tip section of airfoil .

The combination of tip shelf and squealer tip cavity also reduces the heat transfer coefficient across tip section which reduces the net heat flux into airfoil tip region improving the performance and service life of airfoil . In particular the heat transfer coefficient may be substantially proportional to the Reynold s Number which in turn may be substantially proportional to the mass flow. The structure of tip shelf and squealer tip cavity reduces mass flow so the heat transfer coefficient goes down in airfoil tip . That is there is less heat transfer from the hot gas working fluid into airfoil tip section resulting in decreases thermal effects and improved service life for airfoil .

Additionally transient thermal strains are reduced due to the removal of hot metal volume with the incorporation of squealer pocket . Conventional airfoil tip designs that do not incorporate a squealer pocket have significant hot metal volume locally in the tip region. During transient operation of the gas turbine engine there is interaction between the airfoil blade tip surface and the blade outer airseal BOAS . As a result of this rub friction interaction heat is generated along the tip airfoil surface due to the frictional interaction and blade airfoil tip metal temperatures become hotter.

Interaction of the blade tip and blade outer airseal is desirable in that it ensures minimum or lower tip clearance during engine operation. Reductions in tip clearance minimize or reduce leakage flow over the blade tip region with lower losses and increased turbine efficiency. The interaction however does not come without penalty to airfoil blade tip cooling performance impacting durability.

Due to the cyclic nature of gas turbine operations transient thermal response rates of the airfoil metal are relevant to mitigating compressive or thermal strains. Thermal strains result from differences in the relative transient response rates of local metal temperatures including the tip region of the airfoil which historically has significant hot metal mass that transiently responds at a different or slower rate than the surrounding pressure and suction side walls.

As a result of the difference in relative cooling and heating rates compressive or thermal strain is induced in the airfoil tip region during transient operation. In other designs without the improvements described here the cyclic nature of gas turbine engine operations combined with locally high strain may result in the initiation and propagation of thermal mechanical fatigue TMF cracking.

To alleviate compressive or thermal strains it is desirable to more closely match the transient response rates of tip section of airfoil with the local airfoil walls and . Removing in operation hot metal volume with the incorporation of squealer pocket enables the transient response of airfoil tip region and airfoil walls and to be more closely matched eliminating or reducing a propensity to initiate and propagate TMF cracks e.g. through wall TMF cracks in airfoil tip region improving durability and performance of airfoil in tip region and reducing premature oxidation erosion distress which effects could otherwise increase airfoil tip clearance and tip leakage flow. The net effect of these improvements to airfoil is an improvement in turbine efficiency and overall engine performance which positively impacts fuel burn and engine on wing time and service life performance.

In this configuration the length of tip shelf or trench is extended through region A to wrap tip shelf around leading edge surface extending tip shelf onto suction surface or suction side of airfoil in tip section . In addition the length of tip shelf is extended along pressure surface so that tip shelf extends through region C to extreme trailing edge surface terminating approximately at the downstream intersection of pressure surface and suction surface .

This example however is merely representative. In other designs tip shelf wraps around leading edge and extends onto suction surface but tip shelf does not extend to trailing edge . Instead tip shelf terminates at a location upstream of trailing edge along pressure surface as described above.

Alternatively tip shelf extends to extreme trailing edge surface terminating approximately at the downstream intersection between pressure surface and suction surface but tip shelf does not wrap around leading edge . Instead tip shelf terminates at extreme leading edge surface or approximately the upstream intersection of pressure surface and suction surface or tip shelf terminates at a location downstream of leading edge along pressure surface as described above.

Squealer discharge flow channel extends from squealer tip cavity to the downstream intersection of pressure surface and suction surface at extreme trailing edge surface . Squealer discharge flow channel is configured to reduce the magnitude of vortex flow in tip leakage flow f by axially aligning squealer discharge flow channel at trailing edge and reducing penetration of leakage flow over blade tip by discharging a portion of the coolant flow from tip shelf and squealer pocket in a predominately axial direction aligned with suction side streamlines adjacent tip section and trailing edge which streamlines are predominately axial in nature. This alignment of flow f from squealer pocket at trailing edge reduces the magnitude and strength of the tip leakage vortex or tip leakage vortex flow improving efficiency performance and durability.

In some designs cooling fluid flow from tip shelf and squealer discharge flow channel merge at or upstream of extreme trailing edge surface . In these designs squealer discharge flow channel discharges a portion of the cooling fluid flow from tip shelf and squealer pocket so that tip discharge flow f include contributions of cooling fluid flow from tip shelf and squealer pocket . In some designs squealer pocket extends from within 5 10 of chord length L measured from leading edge to terminate less than 85 of chord length L measured from trailing edge . As discussed below the configurations shown in disclose squealer pocket of tip section terminating between 25 and 80 of chord length L measured from trailing edge .

The length of tip shelf as shown in can be extended through region A to wrap tip shelf around leading edge surface extending tip shelf onto suction surface or suction side of airfoil in tip section similar to the embodiment shown in . The length of tip shelf can also extend along pressure surface so that tip shelf extends through region C to extreme trailing edge surface terminating approximately at the downstream intersection of pressure surface and suction surface .

For example region D can be 50 of chord length L measured from trailing edge of airfoil such that squealer pocket extends for more than 15 of chord length L and less than 75 of chord length L. The length of tip shelf as shown in can be similar to the embodiment shown in .

Tip shelf cooling holes are formed in tip shelf to maintain a pocket of cooling fluid along tip section of airfoil between tip shelf wall and concave pressure surface . As shown in each of tip shelf cooling holes formed in tip shelf can include a transition opening that tapers inward into tip shelf to diffuse the cooling fluid as it exits tip shelf cooling holes . Diffusing the cooling fluid as it exits tip shelf cooling holes reduces the speed of the cooling fluid and increases surface area covered by the cooling fluid exiting tip shelf cooling holes .

Similar to the embodiments shown in tip shelf and the open perimeter recess defined by the tip shelf can extend around leading edge and onto suction surface to terminate on suction surface between leading edge and trailing edge of airfoil . Tip shelf can also extend to trailing edge of airfoil to terminate at a downstream intersection of pressure surface and suction surface such that tip shelf communicates with both pressure surface and suction surface proximate to trailing edge . Similar to the embodiments shown in leading edge in the embodiments shown in can comprises a leading edge indentation recessed trench formed on airfoil leading edge . Indentation can extend along leading edge between root section of airfoil and tip section of airfoil and can intersect tip shelf at leading edge .

As shown in airfoil can also include a plurality of cooling holes formed in tip shelf proximate leading edge of airfoil and a plurality of cooling holes formed in the leading edge indentation recessed trench formed on leading edge of airfoil . Similar to the plurality of cooling holes formed in tip shelf proximate concave pressure surface both pluralities of cooling holes and can be fluidically connected to internal cooling channels of airfoil such that internal cooling channels provide cooling fluid i.e. air flow to leading edge via cooling holes and . The pluralities of cooling holes and can extend the pocket or region of cooling fluid on tip shelf around leading edge and into indentation . As discussed below with reference to cooling holes and can include a variety of geometries and orientations.

At least one of the plurality of cooling holes formed in tip shelf proximate leading edge can extend at least partially in a radial direction the radial direction being defined as the direction in which airfoil extends from root section shown in . Because cooling holes formed in tip shelf proximate leading edge can extend partially in the vertical direction the length of cooling holes between tip shelf and internal cooling channels is longer than a cooling hole that merely extends axially or laterally between tip shelf and internal cooling channels . Increasing the length of cooling holes is beneficial because the increased length of cooling holes increases the convective surface area of each of cooling holes thereby increasing the thermal efficiency of cooling holes . Similar to cooling holes at least one of the plurality of cooling holes formed in indentation recessed trench can extend at least partially in the radial direction. Cooling holes and A formed in tip shelf proximate pressure surface can also extend at least partially in the radial direction.

As shown in cooling holes A and can include an oval shaped cross sectional profile. The oval shaped cross sectional profiles of cooling holes A and can help cooling fluid diffuse over leading edge and tip shelf as the cooling fluid exits cooling holes A and to protect tip section of airfoil from thermal degradation. At least one of cooling holes A and cooling holes can also include a transition opening that tapers inward into the tip shelf and leading edge respectively to further diffuse the cooling fluid as it exits cooling holes A and . Diffusing the cooling fluid as it exits cooling holes A and reduces the speed of the cooling fluid and increases surface area covered by the cooling fluid exiting cooling holes A and . Thus cooling holes A and can include various hole type geometries such as cylindrical and circular holes holes with shaped diffusers having lateral expansion holes with shaped diffusers having both lateral expansion and stream wise expansion slots and rectangular slots. In addition holes A and can utilize a single hole geometry such as a circular geometry shown in or holes A and can include a combination of various hole geometries such as circular holes and rectangular slots .

Tip shelf can also include step transition disposed between 55 and 25 of the chord length measured from trailing edge of airfoil . Step transition can shift a portion of tip shelf generally radially outward toward tip section . Tip shelf can also narrow in width at step transition the width of tip shelf being defined as the dimension that extends between pressure surface and vertical wall . Including step transition and narrowing the width of tip shelf at step transition allows the downstream portion of tip section to maintain enough thickness to reduce the likelihood of deformation of tip section as tip section interacts with a blade outer airseal of a gas turbine engine. Between leading edge and step transition cooling holes and A can be disposed on tip shelf in two rows that decreases to a single row of cooling holes between step transition and trailing edge . Cooling holes and A can be reduced to a single row of cooling holes between step transition and trailing edge due to tip shelf narrowing in width between step transition and trailing edge .

In one embodiment an airfoil includes a pressure surface and a suction surface extending from a root section of the airfoil to a tip section of the airfoil. The airfoil also includes a leading edge and a trailing edge defining a chord length of the airfoil therebetween. The airfoil further includes a tip shelf formed along the tip section of the airfoil between the pressure surface and a tip shelf wall. The tip shelf wall is spaced between the pressure surface and the suction surface and the tip shelf extends from within 10 of the chord length measured from the leading edge to within 10 of the chord length measured from the trailing edge.

The airfoil of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following features configurations and or additional components 

a squealer pocket formed along the tip section of the airfoil between the tip shelf wall and a squealer tip wall extending from the suction surface 

the tip shelf extends around the leading edge and onto the suction surface to terminate on the suction surface between the leading edge and the trailing edge of the airfoil 

the leading edge further comprises an indentation formed on the leading edge the indentation extending along the leading edge between the root section of the airfoil and the tip section of the airfoil and wherein the indentation intersects the tip shelf at the leading edge 

at least one of the plurality of cooling holes formed in the indentation extends partially in a radial direction 

at least one of the plurality of cooling holes formed in the indentation includes a transition opening that tapers inward into the leading edge of the airfoil 

the tip shelf extends to the trailing edge of the airfoil to terminate at a downstream intersection of the pressure and suction surfaces such that the tip shelf communicates with both the pressure surface and the suction surface proximate to the trailing edge 

the plurality of cooling holes are arranged in at least two rows on the tip shelf for a first portion of the chord length and the plurality of cooling holes are arranged in a single row for a second portion of the chord length 

at least one of the plurality of cooling holes formed in the tip shelf proximate the leading edge of the airfoil includes a transition opening that tapers inward into the tip shelf 

at least one of the plurality of cooling holes formed in the tip shelf proximate the leading edge of the airfoil includes an oval cross sectional profile and or

at least one of the plurality of cooling holes formed in the tip shelf extends at least partially in a radial direction.

In another embodiment a gas turbine engine blade includes an airfoil comprising convex and concave surfaces extending from a root section to a tip section and from a leading edge to a trailing edge the leading and trailing edges defining a chord length therebetween. The gas turbine engine blade also includes a tip shelf defining an open perimeter recess between the concave surface and a tip shelf wall. The tip shelf wall is spaced between the convex surface and the concave surface and the open perimeter recess extends from a region within 5 of the chord length measured from the leading edge of the airfoil to a region within 5 of the chord length measured from the trailing edge of the airfoil.

The gas turbine engine blade of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following steps features and or configurations 

a squealer pocket defining a closed perimeter recess between the tip shelf wall and a squealer tip wall extending congruently from the convex surface wherein the closed perimeter recess extends from a region within 5 of the chord length measured from the leading edge of the airfoil to terminate in a region between 25 and 80 of the chord length measured from the trailing edge of the airfoil 

the open perimeter recess defined by the tip shelf extends from an intersection of the convex and concave surfaces at the trailing edge and around the leading edge of the airfoil onto the convex surface the open perimeter recess and the tip shelf terminating on the convex surface proximate the leading edge 

a plurality of cooling holes formed in the tip shelf at the leading edge and proximate to the concave surface 

each of the plurality of cooling holes formed in the tip shelf includes a transition opening that tapers inward into the tip shelf and or

the tip shelf comprises a step disposed between 55 and 25 of the chord length measured from the trailing edge of the airfoil wherein the step shifts a portion of the tip shelf generally radially outward toward the tip section.

Any relative terms or terms of degree used herein such as substantially essentially generally and the like should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to any applicable definitions or limits expressly stated herein. In all instances any relative terms or terms of degree used herein should be interpreted to broadly encompass any relevant disclosed embodiments as well as such ranges or variations as would be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art in view of the entirety of the present disclosure such as to encompass ordinary manufacturing tolerance variations incidental alignment variations transitory vibrations and sway movements temporary alignment or shape variations induced by operational conditions and the like.

While this invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. In addition modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore the invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed herein but includes all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

