---

title: System and method for controlling output of multiple audio output devices
abstract: Multiple audio output devices are individually triggered to generate an acoustic identification signal. A controller device can perform a comparison of the acoustic identification signal from each of the multiple audio output devices. The output from one or multiple audio output devices is controlled based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578418&OS=09578418&RS=09578418
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09578418
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150121
---
Audio systems exist that utilize network connected audio output devices e.g. speakers . In such systems multiple connected speakers can be used to output the same content.

According to some embodiments a set of audio output devices can be established and configured to output channel specific audio. Once established the channel configuration can be changed and updated in response to events such as changes to user preference or the addition or subtraction of audio output devices to the network. In some embodiments the reconfiguration can be performed on the fly while audio content is being outputted by the devices.

In some embodiments the audio output devices can be controlled so that the output of the device is calibrated to the position of the user. In particular the arrival time and or volume of the audio can be calibrated so that the user experiences the output from perspective of being equally separated from each audio output device with each audio output device providing a uniform audio output.

Embodiments described herein provide for a system method and device for outputting audio content over a network. In some embodiments multiple audio output devices that are connected on a network to form an audio output set for receiving and outputting at least a portion of an audio content originating from a source. A controller device can determine a channel configuration for the audio output set. The channel configuration can include a channel assignment for each audio output device that is connected on the network to form the audio output set. When the audio content is being outputted the controller device can respond to an event or condition by changing the channel configuration.

In some embodiments a controller device determines a channel configuration for the audio output set. The channel configuration may include a channel assignment for each audio output device that is connected on the network to form the audio output set. The controller device receives audio content from a source and outputs a channel portion of the audio content based on a channel assignment of the given audio output device. For each of the other audio output devices the controller device communicates at least another portion of the audio content to the other audio output device. Additionally the controller responds to an event or condition by changing the channel configuration and then outputting the channel portion of the audio content based on the new channel assignments.

In some embodiments each of multiple audio output devices are triggered to generate an acoustic identification signal. A controller device can perform a comparison of the acoustic identification signal from each of the multiple audio output devices. The output from one or multiple audio output devices is controlled based on the comparison.

As used herein a speaker is intended to mean an audio output device such as a network connected audio output device. One example of a speaker includes a dedicated device that outputs audio such as music. Another non limiting example of a speaker includes a multifunctional device such as a mobile device or tablet which can output video capture and store audio content enable user interaction and or perform numerous other actions.

Various embodiments described herein provide that methods techniques and actions performed by a computing device are performed programmatically or as a computer implemented method. Programmatically means through the use of code or computer executable instructions. A programmatically performed step may or may not be automatic.

Various embodiments described herein may be implemented using programmatic modules or components. A programmatic module or component may include a program a subroutine a portion of a program or software or a hardware component capable of performing one or more stated tasks or functions. As used herein a module or component can exist on a hardware component independently of other modules or components. Alternatively a module or component can be a shared element or process of other modules programs or machines.

Furthermore various embodiments described herein may be implemented through instructions that are executable by one or more processors. These instructions may be carried on a computer readable medium. Machines shown or described with figures below provide examples of processing resources and computer readable mediums on which instructions for implementing embodiments of the invention can be carried and or executed. In particular the numerous machines shown with embodiments of the invention include processor s and various forms of memory for holding data and instructions. Examples of computer readable mediums include permanent memory storage devices such as hard drives on personal computers or servers. Other examples of computer storage mediums include portable storage units such as CD or DVD units flash or solid state memory such as carried on many cell phones and consumer electronic devices and magnetic memory. Computers terminals network enabled devices e.g. mobile devices such as cell phones are all examples of machines and devices that utilize processors memory and instructions stored on computer readable mediums. Additionally embodiments may be implemented in the form of computer programs or a computer usable carrier medium capable of carrying such a program.

The audio output devices and can be connected and positioned in a physical region of the network based on preference of a user. A physical region of the network can correspond to a dwelling or alternatively to a room or space within the dwelling. By way of example an environment of the network can correspond to a home network in which multiple speakers or other audio output devices are provided with network connectivity for purpose of outputting audio content selected by the user. In this context the user may selectively position individual connected speakers about a room to enhance the user s enjoyment of rendered audio content.

In some embodiments the audio output devices and can be heterogeneous in nature meaning that the audio output devices and can have different manufacturers capabilities resources and or purposes. For example one or more of the audio output devices and can correspond to a television for which audio output is not a primary purpose. One or more of the audio output devices and can also include programming or other logic to enable that audio output device to communicate with other devices on the network. An example of such programming or logic includes ALLPLAY platform manufactured by QUALCOMM CONNECTED EXPERIENCES which can be installed or otherwise provided through firmware on wireless speakers. While some examples describe audio output devices and as speakers or dedicated audio output devices other variations provide for audio output devices and which have mufti purposes including televisions desktop computers or other multifunction audio output devices.

The controller device operates to execute an application software platform or other programming logic in order to communicate with and control the audio output devices and . By way of example the controller device can correspond to a mobile computing device such as a multifunction cellular telephony messaging device tablet hybrid device so called phablet or wearable computing device.

The controller device can operate to control and configure the output of audio using the audio output devices and . Any one of multiple audio distribution configurations can be used for purpose of outputting the audio content on multiple audio output devices and in accordance with a dynamically selected channel configuration. In some embodiments the controller device can be operated modally in order to select from multiple possible audio distribution configurations.

The controller device distributes audio content AC directly or indirectly to each of the multiple audio output devices or . In some implementations the controller device is the source of the audio content being distributed. For example the audio content can correspond to media files MF that are accessed from a media library of the user. Depending on implementation the media library can be local to the controller device distributed amongst multiple devices on the network or remote to the controller device . For example some or all of the media library can be stored on other devices including one or more of the audio output devices or or resources of the network and the controller device can communicate with another device on the network e.g. home computer cable box etc. in order to retrieve media files from the media library . Still further the controller device can access network services NS for the audio content such as online media sites e.g. PANDORA SPOTIFY GOOGLE PLUS etc. . The controller device can also generate audio content from other content sources CS such as cable satellite or over the air broadcasts. Additionally the controller device can distribute the audio content originating from multimedia content that is rendered on the device. For example the controller device can execute different applications which generate multimedia content e.g. games and audio from these active applications can be distributed as the audio content . In other variations the controller device can access another device or resource on the network such as a device that communicates with one or more of the audio output devices or through the wireless access point . Depending on the capabilities of the respective devices the controller device can use peer to peer wireless communications e.g. Wi Fi Direct in order directly transmit the audio content to each of the desired audio output devices and on the network .

In some implementations the controller device distributes the audio content through one of the audio output devices that implement functionality for operating as the leader of the active output devices on the network . The controller device may select one of the audio output devices to serve as the leader device. In an example of the audio output device that is selected as the leader can receive the audio content from the controller device which can access the media library network service or content source for distribution to the other audio output devices . In variations the audio output device can receive the audio content from another source e.g. another device of network under direction or control of the controller device for distribution to the other audio output devices .

In alternative variations or modes either the controller device or the audio output device that operates as the leader can channel filter or augment the audio content for transmission to the respective audio output devices. When channel filtered the audio content can be delineated into multiple channel portions and each channel portion of the audio content is communicated to an assigned audio output device and . When augmented the audio content can be pre structured into channeled components and the augmented audio aug. audio can be transmitted to the other audio output devices where the augmented audio is filtered into a corresponding channel portion .

In an example of the controller device includes an audio distribution logic a dynamic selection logic a channel configuration logic and a calibration logic . Furthermore in an example of one or more of the audio output devices and can be selected to implement the functionality of the leader which can include components and functionality e.g. as described with an example of . The functionality shown to be described with either the controller device or the audio output device that is selected as the leader can be interchangeable amongst the two devices or amongst another device that can be substituted as the leader for the audio output device . For example in some variations the controller device can include functionality for implementing channel filtering or channel augmentation e.g. as shown in . Likewise in some variations the audio output device can operate as the leader and also include one or more of the components of the controller device such as one or more of the dynamic selection logic channel configuration logic or calibration logic .

According to some embodiments the controller device includes the channel configuration logic for performing operations to determine a channel configuration of the set of audio output devices and . The channel configuration can be determined by i a number of available audio output devices and ii a configuration scheme or layout that is based on preference and or the number of available audio output devices and and or iii the relative positioning of each audio output device and within the space or environment of the network . Accordingly the channel configuration can specify channel assignments for each audio output device and given a desired or available configuration scheme and the relative positioning of the audio output devices. Once determined channel assignments can be communicated to the audio output devices as control or command data. Depending on implementation or mode of operation the channel assignments can be communicated directly from the controller device or from the audio output device that is acting as the leader. As described with various examples the channel configuration logic can dynamically re determine and implement the channel configuration based on the occurrence of conditions and events that affect usage of the audio output devices and on the network .

Still further in some variations the controller device can have different modes of operation in order to implement an audio distribution configuration in which the audio distribution logic directly distributes the audio content to each of the audio output devices and . The audio distribution logic of the controller device can communicate either a full or partial stream to multiple audio output devices.

According to variations in an alternative mode the controller device can use the dynamic selection logic to select one of the multiple audio output devices as a leader. In some variations the determination to use the particular audio output device as the leader can be made programmatically based on for example available resources of the controller device and or preferences of the user. Various criteria can be used to select one audio output device as the leader for the other audio output devices or of the network . Among the criteria the audio output device and that is selected to be the leader may be required to have a minimum set of resources such as a minimum processing capability and or the ability to establish multiple simultaneous peer to peer connections with other devices on the network . Alternatively the audio output device that is selected as the leader can have the most or best of a desired resource or capability. For example the audio output device can be selected as the leader because the audio output device satisfies a criterion of containing digital signal processor DSP or because the audio output device is deemed to have the greatest amount of available bandwidth as compared to the other audio output devices.

In some variations the control device can communicate a leader selection to the selected audio output device or . In some embodiments the controller device makes the leader selection programmatically using for example the dynamic selection logic .

In some implementations the audio output device receives the audio content from a content source CS and then distributes the audio content as the channel portions to each of the other audio output devices of the network . The source of the audio content can for example correspond to controller device . For example controller device can generate the audio content e.g. gaming content and or store portions of the media library such as a library of songs or albums and the audio content can correspond to a media file from the media library . Alternatively controller device can also serve as a source for audio content retrieved from both local network and remote sources. For example the controller device can access other media resource devices e.g. home computer cable box etc. on the network in order to retrieve the media files of the user s media library. Still further the controller device can access commercially available third party network services for the audio content e.g. PANDORA SPOTIFY GOOGLE PLUS etc. . In other variations the content source for the audio content can be another device on the network such as a device that communicates with the controller device and or output device through the wireless access point . Still further in other variations the source of the audio content can be another content source e.g. cable or over the air broadcast available through the network .

According to some variations the audio output device processes the audio content full audio data to delineate the channel portions from the full audio content . Each channel portion can then be communicated to corresponding audio output device . The channel portion for the audio output device can be played using a local audio output resource in concert with the playback of the channel portions of the other audio output devices .

According to some embodiments the channel configuration can be dynamically determined on the fly based on conditions or events detected on the network . For example the controller device can detect a particular network condition e.g. limited bandwidth and then output the channel configuration to include an alternative set of channel assignments for the respective audio output devices and . Still further the controller device can receive input or otherwise detect the addition or subtraction of an audio output device or so as to affect a number of audio output devices and that are in use. In some cases a change in the number of audio output devices and that are in use can also change the configuration scheme e.g. from 7.1 to 5.1 and or require further changes to the channel assignment in order to accommodate a different number of audio output devices and that are in use or available for use on the network . The ability of the controller device to dynamically determine and implement channel configurations can enable for example playback of the audio content from some or all of the audio output devices and to continue substantially uninterrupted while one or more channel assignments takes place. In addition to dynamically determining the channel configuration the controller device can dynamically select the audio output device that is the leader. The determination of which audio output device serves as the leader can be based on for example the available bandwidth for each of audio output device or that satisfy one or more criteria for being the leader.

As still another example the modal operation of the controller device in distributing the audio content can also be dynamically changed. For example the controller device can switch from using one audio output device as the leader to directly transmitting the audio content or channel portions thereof to each audio output device and . Still further the selection of which audio output device serves as the leader can also be dynamic based on factors such as the available bandwidth to the respective audio output devices .

In some variations the controller device includes the calibration logic . The calibration logic can operate to adjust output of the audio output devices to accommodate a relative position of the user in the physical space of the environment of the network . The calibration logic can operate to accommodate the proximity of the user to one or more of the audio output devices and . The calibration logic can implement operations so that the audio experienced by the user at a given location is uniform from all direction. In particular the calibration logic can implement adjustments in the form of delays in individual audio output devices and so that the arrival time of audio transmissions from each of the respective audio output devices is near simultaneous with respect to the user even though the user may be closer to one audio output device as compared to another. Still further the calibration logic can implement adjustments in the form of volume adjustment for the individual audio output devices so that the volume experience by the user from each of the audio output devices is the same even when the user is closer to one audio output device as compared to another.

The audio receiver can receive audio content from the controller device . Alternatively the audio receiver can receive the audio content from another source such as from an online source or from another device. The audio content can be received either directly or indirectly e.g. via an access point or from the controller device .

The audio output device can also receive channel configuration data from the controller device shown via the device interface . In variations the audio output device includes channel configuration logic for determining channel configuration data independently of any communication from another device. The channel configuration logic can determine channel configuration data from for example user input such as provided through the user s interaction with a user interface of the audio output device . The channel configuration logic can also determine channel configuration data based on settings or preferences of the user or device.

In some implementations or modes of operation the audio receiver can communicate the full stream of audio content full stream AC to the channel filter of control logic . The channel filter filters the full stream of audio content into channeled portions based on channel assignments defined by the channel configuration data . Once channels are delineated from the audio content audio output resource receives the channel portion for the channel assigned to the audio output device . The portion of the audio content for the channels assigned to the other audio output devices can be transmitted to the other audio output devices via the device interface .

In a variation the audio output device can implement channel augmentation . Channel augmentation can structure the full stream of the audio content into an augmented stream that can be transmitted to the other audio output devices via the device interface . The augmented stream can be readily filtered for an appropriate channel at the corresponding audio output device which coincides with the point of output for the particular channel output. The device interface can communicate a full augmented stream which can be readily filtered for a given channel. In this way the channel augmentation can provide an alternative to filtering the audio content in advance of transmission.

The device interface can include programming or logic to enable audio output device to be interconnected and operable with multiple other devices of different kinds on the network . In some implementations the device interface includes an application program interface provided through for example ALLPLAY manufactured by QUALCOMM CONNECTED EXPERIENCES.

In some embodiments the audio output device includes functionality for triggering or implementing calibration control . In some implementations the calibration control receives calibration input from another device such as from controller device . In one example controller device includes resources and logic for receiving input that is indicative of calibration variations and further includes resources and logic to determine calibration actions that can be taken on one or more of the audio output devices in order to calibrate the audio output for the location of the user. As mentioned with other examples the calibration actions serve to affect an audio output experienced by the user with specific consideration for a relative proximity of the user to individual audio output devices of the network .

In some embodiments the calibration actions of the calibration control can include delay control . The control logic can process and communicate the delay control to other audio output devices via the device interface . Another example of calibration actions of calibration control includes volume control . The control logic can communicate the volume control to the other audio output devices via the device interface .

As an addition or alternative in some embodiments the controller device operates to detect and process transmissions for purpose of estimating a proximity of the controller device to individual audio output devices that are operating on the network . With such proximity information the controller device can operate to calibrate an output of one or more of the audio output devices on the network .

In some embodiments the controller device includes a user interface audio output device control logic AOD control logic device position logic and an audio output device interface . The user interface can display prompts that guide the user into providing input that identifies basic input information about the audio output devices employed on the network . For example the user interface can display a virtualized room or space within the dwelling and provide features that enable the user to indicate among other information i a number of audio output devices employed on the network and ii a general location for a given audio output device which can be labeled. The user interface can also execute to prompt the user to provide input information that identifies additional information about the audio output devices such as a manufacturer capability or connectivity status. The user interface can output device position information which can identify the number of audio output devices and their relative position in a space represented through the user interface . The device position logic can receive the position information and optionally generate one or more response queries that can configure content on the user interface to for example prompt the user to provide additional input information .

By way of example the response queries can prompt the user to provide additional input information that can approximate the length or total distance between the audio output devices on the network so as to provide dimensionality to the virtualized representation of the space within the network. Still further the response query can prompt the user to specify audio output devices for different rooms of a dwelling of the network . More generally the response query can prompt the user interface to display content for enabling the user to define different rooms or spaces of the dwelling covered by the network . In some variations the input information can prompt the user into entering information corresponding to i group size information corresponding to a number of audio output devices on the network and ii device position information which identifies a general or relative location of audio output devices within the space of the network e.g. within the individual rooms . Still further while some embodiments provide for the user interface to prompt the user for input information other embodiments provide for the user interface to guide the user into selecting one or more configurations affecting the audio output devices including input for selecting channel configuration .

In some embodiments the device position logic can operate to determine a set of the channel configurations based at least in part on the group size information and the device position information of the individual audio output devices . The channel configuration can specify a speaker configuration layout C. Lay such as 3 5 7 or more Surround Sound layout or Dolby 5.1 or 7.1 speaker layout. The channel configurations for the audio output devices can include channel assignments Chan. Ass. for individual audio output devices. In some variations the configuration layout can be based on one or more criterion such as the number of audio output devices e.g. provided with group size information and or the positioning of the audio output devices e.g. as specified from device position information . In some variations configuration layout can be selected by default. In another variation the user can be provided a selection feature via the user interface in order to make selection of a particular configuration layout . A configuration library can retain information about different possible configuration layouts and provide a mechanism for selecting one or more configuration layouts based on the group size information and or the device position information of each audio output devices . The device position information of each audio output device can be also indicated by input information received via the user interface as well as other input from the user e.g. input that is indicative of a preference of the user . The channel assignments can be made programmatically based on for example the configuration layout the group size information and or device position information of the audio output devices in the space of the dwelling.

The channel configuration can be communicated to the audio output interface . As mentioned with other examples the audio output interface can provide an application programming interface that enables the controller device to communicate with other connected devices of the network . For example the audio output interface can be used for wireless peer to peer communications such as provided through a Wi Fi Direct medium. In some variations the audio output interface communicates the channel configurations to the audio output device that is selected to be the leader for a particular session on the network.

As mentioned in some embodiments the controller device includes functionality for calibrating an output of the audio output devices on the network based on a location of the user at a given moment. As the location of the user changes the controller device can implement functionality to dynamically control an output of individual audio output devices on the network so that the audio experience of the user equally reflects the output from individual audio output devices.

In some embodiments the controller device includes an acoustic input interface a timing analysis component and the audio output device control logic . The audio output device control logic can include a delay or latency control and volume control . The acoustic input interface can include a programming component that interfaces with a microphone of a mobile computing device on which controller device is implemented. In particular the acoustic input interface can be configured to detect reference acoustic reference transmissions AREFTR from each of the active audio output devices on the network . The acoustic input interface can include logic that recognizes for example a predetermined characteristic of the acoustic reference transmissions such as a signal pattern.

In some embodiments each audio output device transmits a locally unique acoustic reference transmission signaling an identifier for the transmitting device. Depending on implementation the acoustic reference transmission of each audio output device can be in the audible or inaudible range. In some embodiments the acoustic reference transmission of the each audio output device is communicated at a frequency range that is detectable to a microphone of the mobile computing device on which the controller device is provided. Additionally each of the audio output devices communicates a corresponding acoustic reference transmission representing a portion e.g. a frame or series of frames of an audio content e.g. song that is outputted from each of the respective audio output devices.

The acoustic input interface can include logic to detect the acoustic reference transmission from each of the audio output devices . The acoustic input interface can also compare the arrival time of each of the acoustic reference transmissions in order to determine a delay or other difference between the arrival times of the acoustic reference transmissions from different audio output devices on the network . By way of example embodiments recognize that it takes sound slightly less than 1 millisecond to travel 1 foot and that if the user moves by relatively small amounts e.g. one foot a detectable delay may result that affects the quality of the user experience in listening to the collective audio output from the audio output system .

The timing analysis component can analyze the arrival time of each of the acoustic reference transmissions in order to detect sufficiently significant variations amongst the arrival times that are attributed to the individual audio output devices . The difference in arrival times can be indicative of user location and more specifically of a relative location or proximity of the user to individual audio output devices of the system.

In some variations a contextual analysis component can also be implemented in connection with the timing analysis component . The contextual analysis component can determine contextual information from timing differentials as identified by arrival times of the acoustic reference transmissions from the different audio output devices . In some variations the contextual analysis component can detect a trend or event from the movement of the user within a network space or region. For example the contextual analysis component can reference known information about the location of individual audio output devices which can be approximated from input information and or from location detection technology in order to determine that the user has switched rooms. Accordingly one determination that can be made from the contextual analysis component includes the determination to power down or up select audio output devices based on the determined location of the user. The contextual analysis component can signal a contextual determination CD to the audio output device control logic which in turn can send control commands CC to select audio output devices for purpose of powering those audio output devices up or down based on contextual determinations . By way of example the contextual determinations can include information that locates a particular audio output device in one room or floor and the user in another room or floor of the dwelling.

Additionally timing analysis component can generate a timing parameter TP which is indicative of a difference in the arrival times of one or more acoustic reference transmissions . The delay control of the audio output device control logic can utilize the timing parameter to generate a delay command DC for one or more of the audio output devices . By way of example when output provided from the acoustic input interface indicates that the user has become proximate to one of the audio output devices and distal to another of the audio output devices the proximate audio output device can be provided the delay command . The delay command can serve to slow down or delay the output of the proximate audio output device . The delay caused to the proximate audio output device can be based on the detected difference in the arrival times of the acoustic reference transmissions from the distal and proximate audio output devices . The delay command can generate a delay that substantially equalizes the arrival times of the proximate and distal audio output devices .

Still further the volume control of the audio output device control logic can use the timing parameter to determine an adjustment to the volume of one or more of the audio output devices with the purpose of having the user experience a same volume from all of the audio output devices regardless of the fact that the user may move or otherwise become close to one or more of the audio output devices at the expense of another. In some implementations the volume control can generate a volume command VC to cause one of i a decreasing adjustment to the volume of a proximate audio output device in response to user movement and ii an increasing adjustment to the volume of a distal audio output device in response to the user movement or iii a combination of increasing and decreasing volume of the distal and proximate audio output device respectively in response to user movement. The particular volume command that is selected can be based on for example a default setting or a user preference.

The audio output interface can communicate one or more of the control command delay command and or volume command to the connected audio output devices of the network . In particular the delay command and or volume command can be generated in response to continued polling or checking of user location as determined from the mobile computing device of controller device . In this way the delay commands and or volume commands can provide a mechanism to calibrate output characteristics of individual audio output devices on the network . Among other benefits the calibration functionality enables the user to experience audio content as equal contributions from multiple audio output devices of the network that are spaced non equidistantly. The calibration functionality also enables the user to experience audio content from multiple contributing audio output devices equally even when the user is in motion or when the user is measurably closer to one audio output device over another. The calibration functionality such as described can also enable the collective audio output to be equalized in contributions from the different audio output devices that are generating output on the network despite differences existing in the manufacturing quality or capability of the individual audio output devices.

With reference to the memory may store instructions for implementing various functionality described with for example controller device . In some variations the memory stores device control instructions Device Control Instruct. which may be executed by the processor in connection with control and calibration functionality e.g. as described with an example of . The microphone of the mobile computing device receives the acoustic reference transmissions AREFTR from the individual audio output devices . The acoustic reference transmissions may be received as encoded signals Enc. Signal and may include data that identifies the particular audio output device from which the acoustic reference transmission originated. The processor may execute the device control instructions in order to i collect the acoustic reference transmissions from the different audio output devices for a given point in time and ii implement timing analysis component to determine timing parameters reflecting differences in the arrival times of the acoustic reference transmissions .

According to some embodiments the processor can execute the device control instructions in order to determine calibration commands based at least in part on the determined timing parameters . Furthermore the processor can use the network interface to communicate calibration commands to one or more audio output devices on the network of the mobile computing device . The calibration commands can include for example delay commands DC which cause specific audio output devices to selectively delay or otherwise adjust timing of their respective outputs in order to calibrate the arrival time of a given segment of audio content to the user. As an addition or variation the calibration commands can include volume commands VC which adjust the volume of individual audio output devices up or down based on for example a proximity of the user to one audio output device as opposed to another.

According to some variations the processor can also execute the device control instructions in order to implement contextual analysis component as described with an example of and make contextual determinations . From the contextual determinations control commands CC can be communicated to selectively power audio output devices on or off based on the location of the user relative to individual audio output devices. The contextual analysis component can make the contextual determinations based on contextual information such as for example information defining the spacing leveling or segmentation e.g. rooms of the dwelling of network .

As an addition or alternative the memory can also store user interface instructions UI Instruct. . The processor can execute the user interface instructions in order to generate a user interface UI on the display . The user interface can provide the user with prompts and other interfaces to facilitate the user in providing input information about the audio output devices that are in use on the network . In particular the input information received through the user interface can include configuration input ConFIG. Input including i the group size information which identifies a number of audio output devices on the network ii device position information including a location indication for one or more of the audio output devices and or iii a selected or preferred layout. In one example the mobile computing device determines the channel configurations based at least in part on a configuration input of the user. The configuration input can be determined through user interaction with the user interface provided on the display .

Still further the memory can include position logic instructions Position Logic Instruct. which when executed by the processor result in the processor generating channel configurations . As described with some other examples channel configurations can include one or more the following i an audio output device layout or scheme and or ii a channel assignment for each audio output device on the network based on the selected device layout. The position logic instructions can determine channel configurations based on additional information such as input information provided from the user and or information known about a particular type or model of one or more of the audio output devices . For example a user may enter information about a specific audio output device using the user interface and the capability known for the particular audio output device may favor use of that device for a particular location are channel assignment.

With reference to in more detail the audio output device includes a buffer a processor an audio output component a network interface and a memory . In variations the audio output device includes a digital signal processor DSP . The memory can store instructions for execution by the processor including interface instructions and or leader device instructions . When operating on the network the processor can execute interface instructions in order to receive an incoming audio stream at the buffer via the network interface . In some implementations i at least a portion of the audio stream is directed to the audio output component which generates an audio content output ACO and ii transmit at least portions of the audio stream to other audio output devices . In some embodiments the DSP processes the audio stream in to enhanced audio output data which can for example structure the audio stream into delineable channeled portions that can be readily filtered at the playback location. The audio output component can receive audio output data from the DSP . In variations the audio output component receives the audio stream from the buffer . Still further the audio output component can receive a channel portion of the audio stream based on the channel assignment as determined by the processor . The audio output component can transform the audio output data or audio stream into sound which is emitted from the audio output device onto the physical space of the network .

Additionally as a leader the processor of the audio output device can execute leader device instructions in order to i determine and communicate channel assignments to other audio output devices on the network ii distribute the audio stream or portions thereof to the other audio output devices and or iii implement or otherwise communicate calibration actions that affect the generation of audio output on the other audio output devices . In variations the processor can execute the leader device instructions to utilize and distribute the enhanced form of the audio stream from the DSP shown as the audio output data .

The audio output device can also execute the leader device instructions to receive input information from the controller device . Among other items the input information can include group size information GS channel layout information CL e.g. positioning of the individual audio output devices about a dwelling in accordance with Dolby 5.1 7.1 etc. and configuration input CI . The input information can be received by for example user input provided through an interaction with the user interface .

In some implementations the channel assignments can be determined by the controller device and received by the audio output device the network interface . In some variations the channel assignments can be determined by channel selection instructions executing on the audio output device . The channel selection instructions can utilize input information including i group size information corresponding to a number of audio output devices ii the channel layout and iii a general configuration of the audio output devices provided as configuration input . The channel selection instructions utilize the various inputs in order to determine the channel assignments for individual audio output devices . The inputs for the channel selection instructions can be received over the network interface from for example the mobile computing device as the controller device .

Some embodiments provides for the audio output device to distribute as the leader audio transmission data ATD to other audio output devices using the network interface . Depending on implementation the audio transmission data can correspond to i the full audio stream which can be filtered by the other audio output devices which receive the audio stream ii the audio output data which structures the full audio stream into pre determined and delineable channeled portions that can be readily filtered at the playback location and or iii separated channel portions which can be individually transmitted to specific audio output devices based on the channel assignment of the audio output devices .

In some embodiments the selection of a leader amongst the audio output devices can be a modal implementation which can be dynamically implemented by the controller device . In alternative modes the audio output device that is the leader can be replaced by for example the source of the audio stream the access point the mobile computing device acting as the controller device which can also act as the source of the content or another one of the audio output devices . In other variations the designation of one audio output device as the leader can be subject to change based on selection logic on the controller device . For example the controller device can execute selection logic to change the leader in response to an event or condition such as presence of low bandwidth at the originally selected leader device.

According to some embodiments the audio stream can be received over the network interface then buffered at buffer and processed. The input audio stream can represent a full stream without any delineation or segmentation of channels from the greater content. The processor or DSP if used can execute filtering logic filter in order to create multiple channel portions of the audio stream . Each of the channel portions can correspond to one of the channels of the determined channel configuration. Specifically the audio stream can be filtered into multiple channel portions with each channel portion being designated for a particular channel that is assigned to one of the audio output devices on the network . The channel portions of the audio stream can then be transmitted to the other audio output devices using the network interface .

With regard to the calibration actions the audio output device may receive calibration commands Cal. Comm. from the mobile computing device and then implement the calibration commands as calibration actions . The calibration actions may correspond to or be based on the calibration commands . The calibration actions may be implemented directly through distribution of the audio transmission data or through communication with the other audio output devices via the network interface . In some variations the audio output device receives calibration related measurements and data from the mobile computing device such as the timing parameter . In variations the audio output device may also include logic to determine calibration actions that include or correspond to calibration commands delay volume etc. based on the measurements and data of the mobile computing device e.g. different in arrival times for a common audio segment timing parameters etc. .

With reference to a set of audio output devices for a given network can be identified by a controller device . In some implementations the audio output devices can be identified by input information from a user. In some implementations input information can be provided through the user interface of the controller device which can be provided on a mobile computing device . In a variation the audio output devices that are connected on the network can be identified programmatically using for example object tracking and detection technology. For example the audio output devices of the network can be equipped with a receiver for receiving transmissions of ultrasonic acoustic waves. The controller device can transmit the ultrasonic acoustic waves to the individual audio output devices and the audio output devices can include programming or logic to detect the ultrasonic acoustic waves. The ultrasonic acoustic waves can provide for use of a dimensional parameter based on the received transmission.

Additional configuration information can also be determined for the identified audio output devices of the network . The additional configuration information can include a selected device layout e.g. 5.1 arrangement 7.1 arrangement etc. as well as a relative location of the individual audio output devices about a physical region of the network . For example a user can specify the approximate location of individual audio output devices using a virtual interface of a generic room provided through the user interface of the controller device .

Once the audio output devices are identified and other configuration information is determined the channel configuration for the audio output devices can be determined . As described with other examples the channel configuration can specify channel assignment for identified audio output devices . In some examples the channel configuration can be determined from for example the mobile computing device on which the controller device is implemented. In a variation the channel configuration can be determined from the audio output device that is selected as the leader by the user and or controller device . Still further in another variation the channel configuration can be determined from multiple components including the controller device or audio output device that operates as the leader.

According to some embodiments when the audio output devices are in use an event or condition can be detected requiring a dynamic or on the fly change to the configuration of the audio output devices . In some implementations the occurrence of the condition or event can correspond to a new audio output device being introduced to the network . Alternatively the condition or event can correspond to one of the existing audio output devices being removed or taken down from the network . Still further there may be a change in a network bandwidth resulting in some audio output devices having their bandwidth changed for better or worse as compared to other audio output devices . As another variation the audio content being played by the various audio output devices can change. For example the channel configuration may merit change if the audio content shifts from having a relatively normal or low bit count to having a relatively high bit count.

Still further the network condition or event can correspond to the user moving about a region where the audio output devices are in use and present . As described some embodiments provide that when the user moves about the movement of the user is detected and one or more calibration actions may take place to equalize the experience of audio generated by the audio output devices on the network . As an addition or variation one response to the user moving in the physical region of the audio output devices can be that the channel configuration is altered to accommodate the movement of the user.

In response to detecting the event or condition the controller device and or audio output device that is the leader can respond by changing the channel configuration . More specifically in some implementations the channel configuration can be changed by altering the various channel assignments to accommodate more or fewer audio output devices in the event that an audio output device is added or subtracted from the network . Additionally the channel configuration can be changed by altering a layout so as to favor the change to for example the number of the audio output devices . Still further the change in channel configuration can be responsive to the addition or deletion of the channel assignment .

With reference to a leader of the audio output devices is selected . The selection of the audio output device that is the leader can also be dynamic in that some variations provide that the audio output device that is the leader can be selected and or changed by the controller device . By way of example the audio output device that is selected as the leader can change as a result of variations to the bandwidth available to that device particularly as compared to the other audio output devices on the network .

According to some embodiments some or all of the channel configurations can be implemented through the audio output device that is the leader . Still further the audio output device that is the leader and or controller device can combine to implement the various channel configurations for all of the audio output devices . The channel configurations can also be determined from the controller device and then communicated to the audio output device that operates as the leader. As described with other examples the channel configurations can include channel assignments for each of the audio output devices . In some variations the channel configurations can also include other information such as a presumed layout for the audio output devices .

In operation audio content can be received on the audio output device that is the leader for distribution to other audio output devices of the network . While receiving and distributing the audio content the leader audio output device can also output a portion of the audio content that is assigned to its own channel .

In some variations the audio content is received on the audio output device and then sent to the other audio output devices that are on the network in accordance with the determined channel configuration . In some implementations the audio output device that acts as the leader operates to filter the audio content for individual channels and then sends the portion of the filtered audio to each of the other audio output devices based on the channel assignment . As an addition or variation the full audio content can be sent from the audio output device to other audio output devices of the network . In such an implementation the audio output devices which receive the full audio content from the leader perform the filtering at the point of output and further at the time just proceeding output . Further along the lines some variations provide for the audio content to be augmented and more specifically processed on either the controller device or audio output device that is the leader for purpose of generating structure in the audio content . The added structure can facilitate the other audio output devices in performing filtering operations on a full audio content.

As mentioned with respect to the method an event or condition is detected which initiates a change in the channel configuration and or other selections e.g. selection of the particular leader device or motive implementation etc. . By way of example the event or condition can correspond to a change in the bandwidth of some or all of the audio output devices a change in the content being outputted e.g. the bit value of the content the addition or subtraction of an audio output device from the network and or movement by the user sufficient to trigger calibration actions.

In response to a detected event or condition one or more processes can be triggered to dynamically adjust the channel configurations and other selections made by either the controller device or audio output device operating as the leader . In some implementations the controller device and or audio output device that is the leader can respond by adjusting the channel configurations of the respective audio output devices while the output continues on the network . The change in the channel configurations can include i changing the channel assignment of a given output device ii creating or eliminating a channel assignment based on the addition or subtraction of an audio output device to the network and or iii changing a selected layout for the audio output device based on any one or more of user input a change in the number of audio output devices or other criteria. The channel configurations can be changed dynamically so that the change to the channel configurations is relatively seamless and not interruptive to the listening experience of the user. For example one or more changes can be made to the channel configurations while at least one or more of the audio output devices continue to output audio content.

Other changes that can be implemented dynamically include the selection of the audio output device that is to operate as the leader . For example the audio output device that operates as the leader can implement a mode change so that the other audio output devices receive the audio content from the controller device or source and not from the leader audio output device. Likewise another mode change can be made to select a new audio output device as the leader based on criteria such the amount of bandwidth available to the selected audio output device. Thus for example the selection of the audio output device that acts as the leader can be dynamic and made on the fly. Likewise other selections that can be made dynamically include i the selection of the mode of operation such as whether any one of the audio output device can be used as leader after having been leader in the same session ii whether the audio content is filtered or structured e.g. with or without leader device and or iii whether the audio content is to be filtered or augmented for the other audio output devices before transmission.

With reference to a location of a user can be tracked within the network environment based on measurements made by a mobile computing device of the user when audio is being outputted by the audio output devices . More specifically a relative proximity of the mobile computing device which presumably is carried by the user to one or more audio output devices on the network can be approximated . Based on the determined relative position of the user as indicated by the user s mobile computing device one or more output characteristics of the audio content can be calibrated to accommodate the presumed relative proximity of the user to the audio output devices of the network . As mentioned with other examples the calibration can include controlling or otherwise adjusting the volume of one or more audio output devices . As an addition or variation the calibration can include adjusting or inserting delays into the output of audio content from one or more audio output devices . The insertion of delays can be based on for example a proximity determination as between select audio output devices and the user as compared to other devices connected to the same network .

With reference to each audio output device is triggered to send an acoustic identification signal to the controller device e.g. mobile computing device . The acoustic identification signal can be an audible and encoded transmission that identifies the source of the acoustic transmission . In variations the acoustic identification signal can be an inaudible and encoded transmission that is detectable to resources e.g. microphone of the mobile computing device on which the controller device is implemented .

The mobile computing device can perform a comparison of arrival times for the acoustic identification signal transmitted from each audio output device . Each acoustic identification signal can include a particular segment of the audio content being played back. For example each acoustic identification signal can represent one or two frames of the audio content. Each audio output device can transmit an acoustic identification signal for a common portion of the audio content being outputted on that device. The acoustic identification signal can provide a mechanism for the mobile computing device of the user to make measurements that are indicative of a relative position of the mobile computing device to one or more other audio output devices .

In some implementations the mobile computing device includes software or other programmatic functionality to time stamp the incoming audio signal extract the encoded identifier and store the time stamp and identifier of the incoming audio signal for subsequent analysis. Each audio transmission can be encoded to coincide with a particular instance in time in the audio content. For example a particular audio frame in a song can be selected for encoding by each audio output device and each audio output device can then output its portion of the audio frame when the song is being played. The microphone on the mobile computing device can detect the encoded audio signals from each audio output device and then record the arrival times and the identifier for each signal. Once all the transmissions for a given instant are recorded a comparison of arrival times can be performed. The comparison can identify variation in the audio output device s arrival time with the assumption that sound travels about 1 foot in 1 millisecond. If the arrival times reflect a discrepancy of more than 1 millisecond then the arrival times indicate the mobile computing device has moved a correlated amount. More specifically the comparison of arrival times can indicate a proximity of the mobile computing device of the user on which the control device is implemented relative to one or more of the audio output devices that are connected to the network .

An output from one or more of the audio output devices can be controlled in order to calibrate the audio output from all of the audio output devices as well as to harmonize the user s experience . As described some embodiments provide for the calibration actions to include i adjusting the timing for individual audio output devices so that the arrival time of multiple audio output devices is substantially the same at least from the perspective of the user and ii adjusting the volume of an individual audio output device so that the user experiences each of the device as being equal in volume regardless of the distance between the user and the particular audio output device .

With reference to a user interface can be generated on a mobile computing device on which the controller device is implemented in order to enable the user to provide some or all of the configuration inputs for determining the channel configurations as well as various other dynamic determinations e.g. mode of operation selection of the leader device etc. .

According to various embodiments the audio output devices of the network can be located and linked . As mentioned with other examples each audio output device can be capable of network communications such as wireless communication e.g. peer to peer wireless communications such as provided by Wi Fi Direct . The audio output devices can be linked regardless of manufacturer or primary purpose. Still further in variations the audio output devices can be heterogeneous in terms of manufacturer functionality programmatic resources and or primary resource.

The user interface can be generated to prompt or otherwise guide the user into providing information about the audio output devices that are connected on the network . For example a number of audio output devices that are connected to the network can be specified by user input provided through the user interface . Furthermore the user can identify each audio output device and further identify a relative location of each audio output device in the user s dwelling or network space. For example the user can be provided with the user interface that depicts a general outline of a room e.g. . The outline can be generic or include user specified features e.g. extra wall rounded walls etc. The user can identify specific audio output devices in the user s set and then further indicate a location in the space or dwelling where the specific audio output devices are positioned.

Once the number of audio output devices and their respective location are generally identified functionality provided by the audio output devices can trigger determination of the channel assignments . As described with other embodiments in determining channel assignments the number of audio output devices the location of each audio output device and the selected layout or configuration can serve as inputs for determining the channel assignments.

Once channel assignments and locations are determined the calibration can be performed based on the relative location of the user . An initial calibration can for example calibrate the arrival time and volume level of the media content output from each audio output device based on an initial location of the user relative to the audio output devices. Subsequently the user can elect to have calibration performed periodically or repeatedly so to track the steps of the user in the dwelling or space.

Once the audio output devices are positioned the user can select the calibration feature to initiate a calibration process such as described with the method . The calibration feature can be triggered once to locate the user relative to the audio output devices . The calibration feature can correct any imprecision or error by the user in specifying the location of individual audio output devices . Additionally the calibration feature can be implemented in a track mode where the calibration is performed repeatedly to track whether the user moves.

Although illustrative embodiments have been described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings variations to specific embodiments and details are encompassed by this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of embodiments described herein be defined by claims and their equivalents. Furthermore it is contemplated that a particular feature described either individually or as part of various embodiments can be combined with other individually described features or parts of other embodiments. Thus absence of describing combinations should not preclude the inventor s from claiming rights to such combinations.

