---

title: System and method for testing and evaluating vehicle components
abstract: A vehicle includes a set of devises for determining a state of the vehicle at an instant of time and a processor operatively connected to a memory for processing parameters of the state of the vehicle collected over a plurality of instances of time for a period of time from an initial instance of time till a current instant of time to determine a set of driving conditions leading to a current state of the vehicle at the current instant of time. Each driving condition indicates a condition of an operation of the vehicle for the period of time. The vehicle also includes a communication module for outputting the current state of the vehicle determined by the set of devices at the current instant of time and for outputting the set of driving conditions leading to the current state of the vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633490&OS=09633490&RS=09633490
owner: Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Inc.
number: 09633490
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150611
---
This invention relates generally to a system and a method for testing and evaluating a vehicle or components of the vehicle and more particularly a system and a method for evaluating a performance of the components of the vehicle under different operating conditions.

Usually any component of a vehicle is tested before being deployed on the vehicle. Such a testing is necessary to ensure that the component can properly operate without malfunctioning during an operation of the vehicle. Throughout a product development cycle the design performance of one or more vehicle components is typically tested through simulation. For example the performance of components in a manual transmission system or a brake system can be determined under various component designs or arrangements see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 8 539 825. Similarly after a newly developed vehicle component is mounted on a vehicle performance of the component or erroneous operation of the component can be tested during various driving tests and or additional simulations see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 8 290 661.

However the simulation of the operating conditions or selected conditions for the different driving tests do not reflect the multitude of actual operational conditions of the modern vehicles. With the advancement of the global market the vehicles of the same model can be deployed for the usage under different terrain and weather conditions and can undergo different driving styles and extend of use. It is just difficult and impractical to test the components of the vehicle under all possible driving conditions.

There is a need for a system and a method for evaluating performance of a vehicle and or components of the vehicle operating under different driving conditions.

It is an object of one embodiment of an invention to provide a system and a method for evaluating performance of a vehicle and or components of the vehicle operating under different driving conditions. It is an object of another embodiment of the invention to evaluate and test various components of the vehicle operated under different but actual driving conditions.

Some embodiments of the invention are based on recognition that a method for testing and or evaluating a vehicle and or components of the vehicle requires knowledge of at least two types of parameters. The first type of parameters describes the state of the vehicle at an instant of time e.g. the time instant of measurements. The second type of parameters describes driving conditions leading to a current state of the vehicle at the current instant of time.

For example the state of the vehicle can include a total distance traveled by the vehicle. Conversely the driving conditions for the vehicle traveled the total distance can include a distribution of the distance over time a ratio of city versus highway distance a ratio of indoor versus outdoor parking distribution of the weather condition over period of time for which the vehicle traveled that total distance. The knowledge of such driving conditions can be used to understand the effect of the traveled distance on different components of the vehicle.

For example the state of the vehicle can include a level of fuel in the vehicle at the instant of time and the driving condition relevant to such a state parameter can include a distribution of the level of fuel in the vehicle for the period of time. Such a time distribution of the level of fuel can be used to evaluate performance of a fuel injection system for admitting fuel into an internal combustion engine of the vehicle.

Some embodiments of the invention are based on recognition that when the operational conditions of the vehicle are simulated the knowledge of those two types of parameters is readily available. For example the parameters describing the current state of the vehicle can be measured using various sensing devises and the driving conditions leading to the current state of the vehicles are parameters of simulation determined in advance. However during the actual operation of the vehicle the driving conditions leading to the current state of the vehicle are unavailable e.g. not measured or discarded after the measurements. This usually is not considered as a problem but as a fact of life especially considering the multitude of different driving conditions.

Some embodiments of the invention are based on a realization that the driving conditions leading to the current state of the vehicle can be determined from parameters of the state of the vehicle collected over a plurality of instances of time for a period of time. Such a set of driving conditions can be outputted together with the current state of the vehicle which allows testing and evaluating different components of the vehicle under actual conditions of the operation.

Additionally or alternatively some embodiments of the invention use the determined driving conditions to compare conditions of different vehicles and or performance of different combination of components including the combination of components produced by different manufacturers. Additionally or alternatively some embodiments of the invention determine the driving condition using a combination of measurements produced by measuring devises and other sensors currently installed on the vehicle. Those embodiments allow determining the driving conditions without installation of additional sensors.

Accordingly one embodiment discloses a vehicle including a set of devises for determining a state of the vehicle at an instant of time the set of devices includes an odometer for determining a total distance traveled by the vehicle at the instant of time a processor for processing parameters of the state of the vehicle collected over a plurality of instances of time for a period of time from an initial instance of time till a current instant of time to determine a set of driving conditions leading to a current state of the vehicle at the current instant of time such that each driving condition indicates a condition of an operation of the vehicle for the period of time and a communication module for outputting the current state of the vehicle determined by the set of devices at the current instant of time and for outputting the set of driving conditions leading to the current state of the vehicle.

Another embodiment discloses a system in communication with a set of vehicles wherein the system receives a current state and driving conditions of each vehicle and determines a condition of the vehicle based on a function of the current state and the driving conditions of the vehicle. Each vehicle includes a set of devises for determining a state of the vehicle at an instant of time the set of devices includes an odometer for determining a total distance traveled by the vehicle at the instant of time a processor operatively connected to a memory for processing parameters of the state of the vehicle collected over a plurality of instances of time for a period of time from an initial instance of time till a current instant of time to determine a set of driving conditions leading to a current state of the vehicle at the current instant of time such that each driving condition indicates a condition of an operation of the vehicle for the period of time and a communication module for outputting the current state of the vehicle determined by the set of devices at the current instant of time and for outputting the set of driving conditions leading to the current state of the vehicle.

A method for testing and or evaluating a vehicle and or components of the vehicle requires knowledge of at least two types of parameters. The first type of parameters describes the state of the vehicle at an instant of time e.g. a time instant of measurements. The second type of parameters describes driving conditions leading to a current state of the vehicle at the current instant of time.

The unit also includes a processor connected to a memory for processing parameters of the state of the vehicle collected by the devices over a plurality of instances of time for a period of time. For example the processor determines the state of the vehicle at each instance of time from an initial instance of time till a current instant of time and stores those set of states in the memory. An aggregation of the set of states over a plurality of instances of time determines a set of driving conditions leading to a current state of the vehicle at the current instant of time.

As contrasted with the state of the vehicle at the instant of time each driving condition indicates a condition of an operation of the vehicle for the period of time. For example the state of the vehicle can include a total distance traveled by the vehicle. Conversely the driving conditions for the vehicle traveled the total distance can include a distribution of the distance over time a ratio of city versus highway distance a ratio of indoor versus outdoor parking distribution of the weather condition over period of time for which the vehicle traveled that total distance. The knowledge of such driving conditions can be used to understand the effect of the traveled distance on different components of the vehicle.

Some embodiments of the invention are based on recognition that the driving conditions leading to the current state of the vehicle can be determined from parameters of the state of the vehicle collected from the devices over a plurality of instances of time for a period of time. Such a set of driving conditions combined together with the current state of the vehicle forms the overall vehicle condition which allows testing and evaluating different components of the vehicle under actual conditions of the operation. For example the state of the vehicle can include a level of fuel in the vehicle at the instant of time and the driving condition relevant to such a state parameter can include a distribution of the level of fuel in the vehicle for the period of time. Such a time distribution of the level of fuel can be used to evaluate performance of a fuel injection system for admitting fuel into an internal combustion engine of the vehicle.

The unit also includes a communication module for outputting the current state of the vehicle determined by the set of devices at the current instant of time and for outputting the set of driving conditions leading to the current state of the vehicle. For example the communication module can transmit the current state and the driving conditions of the vehicle to an external system that determines a condition of the vehicle based on a function of the current state and the driving conditions.

Additionally or alternatively the external system can be in communication with the communication module of multiple vehicles which allows the system to evaluate the condition of one vehicle with respect to the condition of another vehicle. For example such a comparison can be useful for evaluation performance of a component of a vehicle operating under different driving conditions.

For example in one embodiment the system receives the current state and the driving conditions from a first vehicle and receives the current state and the driving conditions from a second vehicle and determines a condition of the first vehicle with respect to a condition of the second vehicle based on a function of the current state and the driving conditions of the first and the second vehicles

In different embodiments the driving conditions are determined using one or a combination of the devices . For example the driving conditions can include one or combination of a ratio of city versus highway distance a ratio of indoors versus outdoors parking a parameter indicative of a distribution of the weather conditions for the period of time a parameter indicating amount of excessive shock impulses acted on the vehicle within the period of time a parameter indicating amount excessive acceleration or deceleration of the vehicle within the period of time. Different embodiments select measurements of one or combination of the devices to determine the corresponding driving condition.

The embodiment uses the GPS sensor for determining highway distance ratio . For example the embodiment can use a semantic map and a set of GPS information e.g. timestamp latitude longitude and altitude of the vehicle to determine if the vehicle is moving on a highway or in a city. Semantic map provides a label for each coordinate on the map. Therefore the embodiment can determine whether a vehicle is moving on a highway or not when the semantic map info is combined with the GPS measurements. For every mile a vehicle is moving on a highway the highway distance count is increased by the processor . For every mile the vehicle is traveling in city the city distance count is increased. Sometimes when the vehicle is on a highway because of traffic congestion the speed and mobility pattern match that in the city. For example if a vehicle is traveling at a low speed on a highway location e.g. 15 miles or 25 km per hour the city distance count can be increased instead. Thus according to some embodiments of the invention the speed of the vehicle is optionally used to determine the highway distance ratio.

The embodiment in shows the exemplar use of the GPS sensor for determining indoor versus outdoor time of the vehicle. The embodiment uses a semantic map and a set of GPS information e.g. a timestamp a latitude a longitude and an altitude of the vehicle to determine if the vehicle is parked indoor or outdoor. Semantic map provides a label for each coordinate on the map. Therefore some embodiments determine whether a vehicle is indoor or outdoor by combining semantic map info with the GPS info. For example every time unit e.g. 1 hour the vehicle indoor count and outdoor count is updated by the processor .

For example one embodiment can use the GPS sensor for determining outdoor time of the vehicle versus weather condition type . The system according to some embodiments of the invention uses a weather portal data and a set of GPS information e.g. a timestamp a latitude a longitude and an altitude of the vehicle to determine if the vehicle is exposed to certain weather conditions such as rain or snow. The weather portal data provides a label for each coordinate on the map. Therefore some embodiments can determine whether a vehicle is driven under the snow and on salted roads. The processor updates for every specified time unit e.g. 1 hour the vehicle driving condition based on weather type.

Knowledge of the weather conditions is advantageous for evaluating deterioration of various components of the vehicle. For example under the snow conditions salt and grains are spread on roads to prevent icing which have detrimental effects on vehicles in the form of corrosion dimples and dents. The model according to one embodiment of the invention captures deterioration of vehicle based on weather condition because deicing chemicals is one of the sources of vehicle corrosion.

For example the fuel tank level measured by the fuel sensor can also be considered to be a factor that would impact vehicle condition. As the fuel tank reaches a near zero fuel level minute particles and debris accumulated at the bottom of the tank would more easily make their way into the injection system and contaminate filters. The processor compares the fuel level to a threshold . If the threshold crossing event occurs the fuel level critically low indicator is incremented.

For example a payload weight sensor can be used to measure the total passenger weight or count. The sensor includes an image sensor and a strain gauge on each seat in the vehicle. The differential change in tire pressures before and after the engine is on can be used to determine the total passenger weight and count during a trip. High passenger weight would impact vehicle condition more negatively e.g. more wearing and tearing of shock absorbers tires and seats. According to some embodiments of the invention the total number of distance driven for a range of passenger count or weight is derived in the form of a histogram. Additionally or alternatively the percentage of distance driven under different weight profiles can be quantified via a histogram.

Additionally or alternatively in another embodiment the set of devices includes a wheel column sensor for determining one or combination of acceleration and force acting on a wheel column at the instant of time and the set of driving conditions includes a parameter indicating amount of excessive force acted on the wheel column within the period of time.

For example the embodiment can determine acceleration sensor output g levels versus frequency of occurrence for each sensor axis as a driving condition indicator. In almost every vehicle today there are multi axis acceleration sensors . The processor reads the data from each axis of the acceleration sensor and records the corresponding gravity force in units of meters per square seconds m s to detect sudden brakes in the form of a histogram to estimate degradation of brake pads and loss of braking effectiveness.

In some embodiments of the invention the testing and evaluating the components of the vehicle is performed by a system in communication with the communication module of the vehicle. The system receives the current state and the driving conditions of the vehicle and determines a condition of the vehicle based on a function of the current state and the driving conditions.

In some embodiment the system is a remote system in communication with the vehicle over a wireless interface. In alternative embodiment the system is implemented by various components of the vehicle. For example the system can be in wired or wireless communication with the processor and the memory or can be even implemented using the processor . In some embodiments the system is implemented in a distributed manner.

In some embodiments the vehicle also includes a display for rendering the results of the evaluation. The display can also render the valuation of the vehicle and its relative ranking with respect to the other vehicles in the marketplace is performed by the condition server in the cloud . The condition device reads data from the sensors on the vehicle over a controller area network CAN bus connection and then computes the current state and condition information which are then passed to the condition server .

The condition server includes memory units processor and database . The connectivity between the external servers can be over the Internet. The connectivity between the vehicle communication unit and the condition server can employ cellular communication or the Internet via WiFi. Vehicle maker servers can provide the condition server with vehicle trim information including e.g. make model color accessories electro mechanical features recall info for each unique vehicle identification number. The vehicle dealer servers can provide the condition server with information including performed vehicle services and future service needs and their corresponding attributes. Pricing portals provide transaction based pricing of vehicles.

The vehicle product sub database includes for each member vehicle the followings. The sub database can include a unique identification number e.g. IP V6 address of the value meter device vehicle identification number VIN of the vehicle. For example the value meter device can read VIN of a vehicle directly from the vehicle CAN bus interface. The sub database can also include vehicle attributes such as make model year color trim location. This information can be entered once into the value meter device at the time of installation and then uploaded to the database.

The sub database can also include vehicle sensor values such as distance fuel level statistics e.g. minimum fuel level refill start level refill stop level refill start level distribution refill stop level distribution failed sensors. By periodically or a periodically reading the fuel level from the vehicle CAN bus the unit can derive fuel statistics. Notably any jump increase in fuel level while the vehicle is in stop is due to refilling. When a tank is near empty dusts and particles on the bottom of the tank are likely to make their way into the injection system and cause engine performance issues in time. Refilling at a high start level is recommended. Condition device uploads these measurements to the condition server for the subject vehicle.

The sub database can also include distance records and statistics such as current distance highway distance city distance and GPS and weather related statistics such as the total time driven under rain total time driven in snow outdoor to indoor stay ratio. For example the city driving typically involves rough roads and potholes negatively effecting suspension engine and brakes of the vehicle. However highway roads are smoother and vehicles depreciate slower compared to the vehicles with city mileage. There is currently no solution to exactly determine the break down of city and highway distances of a vehicle. The unit uses on board GPS receiver to classify any commuted mile into city mile or highway mile. Thus some embodiment makes possible to determine the percentage of highway distance of a vehicle.

The sub database can also include occupancy weight records and statistics such as average total passenger weight per mile minimum total passenger weight per mile maximum total passenger weight per mile the number of distance versus total passenger weight distribution. The unit can use different approaches to determine the number of people within a vehicle. One way is to use microphones on the device and perform speech recognition while the vehicle is in motion. The second option is to use an imaging sensor and image processing algorithms for face detection. Speech and face recognition algorithms are becoming widespread with their high performance. Higher weight induces more stress on vehicle components therefore accelerates wearing and tearing.

The sub database can also include depreciation history based on transactions data from pricing portals . The condition server retrieves depreciation history of a particle vehicle type and configuration from other web portals using their application programming interface. The sub database can also include vehicle performance such as acceleration accident record engine noise CO2 emission levels miles per gallon or km per liter and condition device settings such as privacy settings sensor reading update frequency or period and profile settings.

In some embodiments the sub database can also include virtual test drive requests responses settings and schedules . The condition system in can allow to offer a remote test drive of the vehicle. Once a test drive is scheduled via the condition system the information from the desired sensors on the subject vehicle can be monitored in real time. First the sensor values from the vehicle are streamed onto the condition server on the cloud. Then the sensor data are retrieved in real time on the vehicle evaluation device .

The members sub database can include for each member vehicle a member profile e.g. age gender name geo location a privacy settings an account setting and activity records . For example data and or attributes of the vehicle can be stored on the value meter server and available to value meter subscribers. Vehicle owners can have control over what information should be treated as private such as the name of owner zip code. The value meter system allows potential sellers to be able to proactively request information about the vehicles of interest.

The members sub database can also include a driving style such as statistics of sharp cornering sudden brakes and sudden acceleration highway distance and city distance breakdowns and tailgating statistics requiring distance measurement sensors in the front of a vehicle. The members sub database can also include other preferences such as preferences comprising make model year distance vehicle features and preferences comprising particulars of the vehicle offerings.

The marketplace sub database can include transaction data such as price and vehicle information based on sale transactions that took place in the regular marketplace. The marketplace sub database can also include supply and demand data for specifying the availability and demand for vehicle evaluation and ranking. The marketplace sub database can also include recall data e.g. vehicle make model year and recall reason and filtering tools comprising capabilities to retrieve marketplace data for certain vehicle categories distance range location vehicle age range and transaction prices.

According to some embodiments of the invention the parameters of the state of the vehicle include parameters indicative of conditions of components of the vehicle and parameters indicative of conditions of the operation of the vehicle and components of the vehicle at the instant of time. For example one embodiment groups parameters of the state of the vehicle in a feature vector x for use in vehicle valuation and ranking. These feature variables can be categorical such as color or continuous variables such as distance. For example an i th dimension of feature vector x i can represent a categorical vehicle color variable where values 0 1 2 3 can correspond to black white blue red colors respectively. Similarly a j th dimension of feature vector x j can represent a continuous vehicle distance variable. Some implementations convert the categorical variables to binary variables such that if there are k categories k new binary variables are defined one for each category. Only the category variable corresponding to the vehicles category is set to 1 while others are kept 0. This description still refers to this converted feature vector as x. The feature vector is used to determine a valuation ranking or a customized ranking of a vehicle by using valuation ranking or customized ranking functions.

In one embodiment a valuation function F x determines an absolute value of a vehicle. This function maps feature vector associated with a vehicle to an absolute value. Value of a vehicle can have various alternative meanings. In one embodiment the value means the market price of a car in terms of a standard currency. In a different embodiment the value represents the mechanical score of a vehicle where a car with perfect condition maps to a maximum score and cars with worse conditions have gradually lower scores.

In different embodiments the valuation function is a regression function and can have many different forms such as linear functions log linear functions polynomial functions regression trees regression forests kernel functions support vector regression relevance vector regression neural networks nearest neighbor regressors and combination thereof.

The valuation function can be set by a human expert or can be learned using training data. In one embodiment the valuation function is learned using training data x y containing feature vectors xand corresponding values yof n vehicles. During the training an optimization procedure is solved 

to minimize the difference between the value estimations by the valuation function F x and the true values y. The term F is a regularizer which prevents overfitting the training data and c is a tradeoff between the training error and regularizer.

In one embodiment the valuation function is written as a linear function F x wx. In linear support vector regression problem optimization is written as a soft margin optimization

The optimization finds a linear regression vector w that minimizes the difference between predictions and true values while maximizing a margin. Extension of this model to non linear regression is given by kernel mapping K x x where the regression function can be written as

If the kernel function is positive definite this optimization is a convex optimization and can be solved optimally using standard continuous optimization schemes such as interior point methods.

Some embodiments use ranking functions to determine the relative utility of a vehicle with respect to the other vehicles. A ranking function rates the vehicles with overall better utility over the cars that have lower utility. The utility function can use a combination of a price and other features. In one embodiment the time of sale of a car from introduction to the market is used to determine the utility of a car relative to the other cars.

Let x to represent the feature vector of the car including the price. The ranking function can be a regression function with many different forms such as linear functions log linear functions polynomial functions regression trees regression forests kernel functions support vector regression relevance vector regression neural networks nearest neighbor regressors and combination thereof. The ranking function can be set by a human expert or can be learned using training data. In one embodiment the valuation function is learned using training data x x including feature vectors xand xwith the relationship that the i th vehicle has better utility that j th vehicle.

In one embodiment the ranking function is written as a linear function F x wx. In linear support vector ranking problem optimization is written as a soft margin optimization

The optimization finds a linear regression vector wthat ranks the vehicles with higher utilities higher y y while maximizing a margin.

Extension of this model to non linear regression is given by kernel mapping K x x where the regression function can be written as

If the kernel function is positive definite this optimization is a convex optimization and can be solved optimally using standard continuous optimization schemes such as interior point methods.

In some embodiments of the invention the ranking function can be different for different vehicles when certain vehicle features or components are more important than other features. Customized ranking function is a function that ranks vehicles differently for each user or with respect to groups of different user types. Users are classified into a fixed number of user types using a classifier function. This is achieved by asking several questions to the users. User answers are used as features to the classifier function and the function assigns a category to each user. The classification function can have many different forms such as decision trees decision forests and linear classifiers.

During training a separate ranking function can be learned for each category. For example while using the ranking function the same questions are asked to the user and the user is classified into one of the categories. Customized ranking for that user is then generated using the ranking function of that category.

Without the ranking function the vehicle ranking would list vehicles that would satisfy both constraints including vehicles I D J E and C. However the age and distance can affect different components of the vehicle differently. In addition different driving condition can further be used to compare the vehicle. The condition system according to one embodiment of the invention can rank and or the vehicles within the feasible region according to driving conditions and other preferences specifying the weight of those driving conditions.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers. Such processors may be implemented as integrated circuits with one or more processors in an integrated circuit component. Though a processor may be implemented using circuitry in any suitable format.

Further it should be appreciated that a computer may be embodied in any of a number of forms such as a rack mounted computer a desktop computer a laptop computer minicomputer or a tablet computer. Such computers may be interconnected by one or more networks in any suitable form including as a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or programming or scripting tools.

Also the embodiments of the invention may be embodied as a method of which an example has been provided. The steps performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Although the invention has been described by way of examples of preferred embodiments it is to be understood that various other adaptations and modifications can be made within the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore it is the object of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

