---

title: Resistive memory device and method of operating the same
abstract: Provided are a resistive memory device and a method of the resistive memory device. The method of operating the resistive memory device includes performing a pre-read operation on memory cells in response to a write command; performing an erase operation on one or more first memory cells on which a reset write operation is to be performed, determined based on a result of comparing pre-read data from the pre-read operation with write data; and performing set-direction programming on at least some memory cells from among the erased one or more first memory cells and on one or more second memory cells on which a set write operation is to be performed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558821&OS=09558821&RS=09558821
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09558821
owner_city: Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150312
---
A claim for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 is made to Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0085363 filed on Jul. 8 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the inventive concept relate to a resistive memory device and an operating method of the resistive memory device. More particularly embodiments of the inventive concept relate to a resistive memory device that includes a resistive memory cell and an operating method of the resistive memory device.

According to demand for increasingly high capacity and low power consumption memory devices research for next generation memory devices is being conducted. The next generation memory devices must have high integrity characteristics of Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM non volatile characteristics of flash memory and high speed characteristics of static RAM SRAM . As next generation memory devices Phase change RAM PRAM Nano Floating Gate Memory NFGM Polymer RAM PoRAM Magnetic RAM MRAM Ferroelectric RAM FeRAM and Resistive RAM RRAM are being highlighted.

Embodiments of the inventive concept provide a resistive memory device having improved data reliability and a method of operating the resistive memory device.

According to an aspect of the inventive concept there is provided a method of operating a resistive memory device. The method includes performing a pre read operation on memory cells in response to a write command performing an erase operation on one or more first memory cells on which a reset write operation is to be performed determined based on a result of comparing pre read data from the pre read operation with write data and performing set direction programming on at least some memory cells from among the erased one or more first memory cells and on one or more second memory cells on which a set write operation is to be performed.

Each of the one or more first memory cells and the one or more second memory cells may include a variable resistor. The reset write operation may be a write operation that increases a resistance value of the variable resistor and the set write operation may be a write operation that decreases the resistance value of the variable resistor.

The resistance values of the variable resistors of the one or more first memory cells may be increased by the erase operation and then decreased by the set direction programming whereby the reset write operation is performed on the one or more first memory cells. Resistance values of the variable resistors of the one or more second memory cells may be decreased by the set direction programming whereby the set write operation is performed on the one or more second memory cells.

Each of the one or more first memory cells and the one or more second memory cells may be a multilevel cell having a resistance value that corresponds to one of multiple resistance distributions. By performing the erase operation the one or more first memory cells may have resistance values that correspond to a largest resistance distribution from among the multiple resistance distributions.

Each of the one or more first memory cells and the one or more second memory cells may be a multilevel cell having a resistance value that corresponds to one of multiple resistance distributions. According to a result of comparing the pre read data with the write data when a resistance value that corresponds to the write data is greater than a resistance value that corresponds to the pre read data a memory cell for storing the write data is determined to be a first memory cell and when the resistance value that corresponds to the write data is smaller than the resistance value that corresponds to the pre read data the memory cell for storing the write data is determined to be a second memory cell.

The method of operating the resistive memory device may further include performing a verification read operation on the at least some memory cells on which the set direction programming has been performed. According to a verification result the set direction programming may be again performed on one or more verification failed memory cells.

The method of operating the resistive memory device may further include performing a verification read operation on the at least some memory cells on which the set direction programming has been performed. According to a verification result the erase operation and the set direction programming may be again performed on one or more verification failed first memory cells.

A write operation may be skipped with respect to one or more third memory cells in which the write data is determined to be equal to the pre read data based on the result of comparing the pre read data from the pre read operation with the write data.

According to another aspect of the inventive concept there is provided method of operating a resistive memory device including multiple resistive memory cells. The method includes performing a pre read operation on the resistive memory cells in response to a write command increasing a resistance value of a first variable resistor in one or more first memory cells and then performing set direction programming that decreases the resistance value of the first variable resistor and performing set direction programming that decreases a resistance value of a second variable resistor in one or more second memory cells.

According to another aspect of the inventive concept there is provided a method of operating a resistive memory device including a memory cell array having multiple resistive memory cells where each of the resistive memory cells includes a variable resistor. The method includes comparing multiple pieces of write data to be written to the resistive memory cells respectively with multiple pieces of data that are read from the resistive memory cells respectively determining a first cell region of the memory cell array that includes resistive memory cells of which resistance values of the variable resistors are to be increased by a write operation and a second cell region of the memory cell array that includes resistive memory cells of which resistance values of the variable resistors are to be decreased by the write operation changing the resistance values of the variable resistors of the resistive memory cells in one of the first cell region and the second cell region and thus making the resistance values the same and programming the first cell region and the second cell region according to the multiple pieces of write data.

According to another aspect of the inventive concept there is provided a resistive memory device including a memory cell array having resistive memory cells and control logic. The control logic is configured to control a pre read operation to be performed on the resistive memory cells in response to a write command to control an erase operation to be performed on one or more first resistive memory cells on which a reset write operation is to be performed as determined according to pre read data and write data and to control set direction programming to be performed on at least some resistive memory cells from among the erased one or more first resistive memory cells and on one or more second resistive memory cells on which a set write operation is to be performed.

Embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the following description and accompanying drawings. The inventive concept however may be embodied in various different forms and should not be construed as being limited only to the illustrated embodiments. Rather these embodiments are provided as examples so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the concept of the inventive concept to one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus the inventive concept may include all revisions equivalents or substitutions which are included in the concept and the technical scope related to the present inventive concept. Also known processes elements and techniques are not described with respect to some of the embodiments. Unless otherwise noted like reference numerals denote like elements throughout the attached drawings and written description and thus descriptions may not be repeated. In the drawings the dimension of structures may be exaggerated for clarity. In the drawings the dimension of structures may be exaggerated for clarity.

Furthermore all examples and conditional language recited herein are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Throughout the specification a singular form may include plural forms unless there is a particular description contrary thereto. Also terms such as comprise or comprising are used to specify existence of a recited form a number a process an operation a component and or groups thereof not excluding the existence of one or more other recited forms one or more other numbers one or more other processes one or more other operations one or more other components and or groups thereof.

While terms first and second are used to describe various components it is obvious that the components are not limited to the terms first and second . The terms first and second are used only to distinguish between each component. For example a first component may indicate a second component or a second component may indicate a first component without conflicting with the inventive concept.

Unless expressly described otherwise all terms including descriptive or technical terms which are used herein should be construed as having meanings that are obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art. Also terms that are defined in a general dictionary and that are used in the following description should be construed as having meanings that are equivalent to meanings used in the related description and unless expressly described otherwise herein the terms should not be construed as being ideal or excessively formal.

As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Expressions such as at least one of when preceding a list of elements modify the entire list of elements and do not modify the individual elements of the list. The term exemplary refers to an illustration or an example.

Referring to a memory system includes a resistive memory device hereinafter referred as the memory device and a memory controller . The memory device includes a memory cell array a write read circuit and control logic . Since the memory cell array includes resistive memory cells the memory system may be called a resistive memory system.

In response to a write request from a host the memory controller controls the memory device to write data to the memory device . In response to a read request from the host the memory controller reads data stored in the memory device . In more detail the memory controller may provide an address ADDR a command CMD and a control signal CTRL to the memory device and thus control program or write operations read operations and erase operations with respect to the memory device . Also write target data DATA and read data DATA may be exchanged between the memory controller and the memory device .

Although not illustrated the memory controller may include a Random Access Memory RAM a processing unit a host interface and a memory interface. The RAM may be used as an operation memory of the processing unit. The processing unit may control operations of the memory controller . The host interface may implement a protocol for exchanging data between the host and the memory controller . For example the memory controller may communicate with an external source i.e. the host by using at least one of various interface protocols including Universal Serial Bus USB Multi Media memory Card MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCI E Advanced Technology Attachment ATA Serial ATA Parallel ATA Small Computer System Interface SCSI Enhanced Small Disk Interface ESDI and Integrated Drive Electronics IDE for example.

The memory cell array may include a plurality of memory cells not shown that are disposed respectively in regions where first signal lines and second signal lines cross. In the present embodiment the first signal lines may be bit lines and the second signal lines may be word lines. In another embodiment the first signal lines may be word lines and the second signal lines may be bit lines.

In the present embodiment each of the memory cells may be a single level cell SLC that stores one bit data or may be a multilevel cell MLC that stores at least two bit data. Alternatively the memory cell array may include both the SLC and the MLC. When one bit data is written to one memory cell the memory cells has two resistance level distributions according to the written data. Alternatively when two bit data is written to one memory cell the memory cell has four resistance level distributions according to the written data. In an embodiment if a memory cell is a triple level cell TLC that stores three bit data the memory cells has eight resistance level distributions according to the written data. However the various embodiments of the inventive concept are not limited thereto. Thus in other embodiments each of the memory cells may store at least four bit data.

In the present embodiment the memory cell array may include memory cells in a two dimensionally horizontal structure. In an embodiment the memory cell array may include memory cells in a three dimensionally vertical structure.

The memory cell array may include resistance type memory cells or resistive memory cells that include a variable resistor device not shown having a variable resistor. For one example when resistance of the variable resistor device which is formed of a phase change material e.g. Ge Sb Te is changed according to temperature the resistive memory device is a Phase change RAM PRAM . For another example when the variable resistor device is formed of complex metal oxide including an upper electrode a lower electrode and transition metal oxide therebetween the resistive memory device is a Resistive RAM RRAM . For another example when the variable resistor device is formed of an upper electrode of a magnetic material a lower electrode of the magnetic material and a dielectric therebetween the resistive memory device is a Magnetic RAM MRAM .

The write read circuit performs write and read operations on the memory cells. The write read circuit is connected to the memory cells via the bit lines and includes a write driver that writes data to the memory cells and a sense amplifier that amplifies data read from the memory cells.

The control logic generally controls the operations of the memory device and controls the write read circuit so as to perform memory operations such as write operations and read operations. For the write and read operations of the memory device the control logic may provide various pulse signals such as a write pulse a read pulse etc. to the write read circuit and in response to the various pulse signals the write read circuit may provide a write current or a write voltage or a read current or a read voltage to the memory cell array . A pulse generator not shown that generates the various pulse signals may be arranged in or outside the control logic .

In the write operation with respect to the memory device resistance values of variable resistors of some memory cells of the memory cell array are increased and resistance values of variable resistors of other memory cells of the memory cell array are decreased depending on the write data. For example each of the memory cells of the memory cell array has a resistance value according to data that is currently stored therein and the resistance value may be increased or decreased depending on data to be written to each of the memory cells. The write operation is divided into a reset write operation and a set write operation. In a set state a resistive memory cell may have a relatively low resistance value and in a reset state the resistive memory cell may have a relatively high resistance value. The reset write operation involves performing a write operation so as to increase the resistance values and the set write operation involves performing a write operation so as to decrease the resistance values.

In the present embodiment a writing method varies in the reset write operation and the set write operation so that durability of the memory device may be improved and power consumption by the write operation may be decreased. For example the memory device may determine some memory cells e.g. first memory cells on which the reset write operation will be performed and other memory cells e.g. second memory cells on which the set write operation will be performed where the some memory cells and the other memory cells are from among the memory cells on which the memory operation will be performed. As a result of the determination the memory device may distinguish between the first memory cells and the second memory cells and perform the write operation. For example the memory device first performs an erase operation on the first memory cells and thus increases resistance values of variable resistors of the first memory cells. Then the memory device performs a program e.g. set direction programming for decreasing the resistance values of the variable resistors of the first memory cells so that data is written to the first memory cells.

On the other hand the memory device skips the erase operation on the second memory cells and performs only a program for decreasing resistance values of variable resistors of the second memory cells so that the set write operation is performed.

The memory device may perform the set direction programming only on some first memory cells from among the first memory cells. For example when the memory device performs a write operation by increasing the resistance values of the variable resistors of the first memory cells the memory device increases resistance values of variable resistors of some first memory cells from among the first memory cells by erasing the some first memory cells. If the resistance values of the some first memory cells at an erase state are equal to resistance values of the variable resistors of the some first memory cells on which the reset write operation is performed the set direction programming may be skipped on the some first memory cells.

In the write operation according to the present embodiment it is not necessary to perform an erase operation on all memory cells on which the write operation will be performed. It is therefore possible to increase durability of the memory device by reducing deterioration due to the number of times that erase operations are performed. Also it is possible to decrease the number of memory cells on which the erase operation that requires great power consumption is performed and thus entire power consumption may be reduced.

The memory controller and the memory device may be integrated into a semiconductor device. For example the memory controller and the memory device may be integrated into a semiconductor device configured as a memory card. Also for example the memory controller and the memory device may be integrated into a semiconductor device configured as a personal computer PC card e.g. a PCMCIA card a compact flash card CF card a smart media card SM SMC a memory stick a multimedia card MMC RS MMC or MMCmicro an SD card SD miniSD or microSD or a universal flash storage UFS . As another example the memory controller and the memory device may be integrated into the semiconductor device configured as a Solid State Disk Drive SSD .

An operation of the memory device included in the resistive memory system with the aforementioned structure will be described below. is a block diagram of the memory device of according to an embodiment of the inventive concept.

Referring to the memory device includes the memory cell array the write read circuit and the control logic . Also the memory device further includes a row decoder and a column decoder . The write read circuit includes a sense amplifier and a write driver . In the present embodiment the control logic includes a comparing unit and a set reset determining unit to control a set write operation and a reset write operation. Referring to the comparing unit and the set reset determining unit are included in the control logic but other embodiments of the inventive concept are not limited thereto. For example a unit that performs a function of at least one of the comparing unit and the set reset determining unit may be arranged outside the control logic and a comparison result and or a set reset determination result may be provided to the control logic . For example a unit of performing a comparison function and a unit of performing a set reset determination function may be arranged in the write read circuit .

Memory cells that are arranged in the memory cell array may be connected to first signal lines and second signal lines. The first signal lines may be bit lines BL and the signal lines may be word lines WL for example. When a write command is received a reset write operation may be performed on memory cells of a region e.g. a first cell region of the memory cell array and a set write operation may be performed on memory cells of another region e.g. a second cell region of the memory cell array .

An address ADDR accompanying the write command is received to indicate a memory cell. The address ADDR may include a row address X ADDR for selecting a word line WL of the memory cell array and a column address Y ADDR for selecting a bit line BL of the memory cell array . The row decoder performs a word line selecting operation in response to the row address X ADDR and the column decoder performs a bit line selecting operation in response to the column address Y ADDR.

The write read circuit is connected to the bit line BL and thus writes data to the memory cell or reads data from the memory cell. For example the write read circuit may receive a write pulse Pulse from the control logic and the write driver may provide a write voltage or a write current to the memory cell array via the column decoder according to the received write pulse Pulse. In more detail when a set pulse is received the write driver may provide a set current or a set voltage to the memory cell array in response to the set pulse and thus decrease a resistance value of a variable resistor of the memory cell. When a reset pulse is received the write driver may provide a reset current or a reset voltage to the memory cell array in response to the reset pulse and thus increase the resistance value of the variable resistor of the memory cell.

In a read operation of reading data the write read circuit generates and provides a read current or a read voltage for the read operation to the memory cell. The sense amplifier may include a current generator or a voltage generator and in order to determine the data the sense amplifier may include a comparator that is connected to a node e.g. a sensing node of the bit lines BL. Since one end of the comparator is connected to the sensing node and the other end of the comparator is connected to a reference voltage the sense amplifier is able to determine the value of the data.

The control logic may output various control signals CTRL RW for writing data to the memory cell array or reading data from the memory cell array based on a command CMD an address ADDR and a control signal CTRL received from the memory controller . By doing so the control logic generally controls operations in the memory device .

In response to receipt of the write command the control logic may control a pre read operation to be performed on at least some memory cells of the memory cell array . Pre read data D pre is provided to the comparing unit and the comparing unit compares the pre read data D pre with data DATA that is accompanied with the write command. For example pieces of data may be pre read from a plurality of access target memory cells and values of the pieces of the data D pre that are pre read from the access target memory cells are compared respectively with values of write data DATA to be stored in the access target memory cells.

The set reset determining unit which may alternatively be referred to as determining unit determines based on the comparison results whether to perform a set write operation or a reset write operation on each of the access target memory cells. Since the determination may be performed on each memory cell the access target memory cells may be divided into first memory cells on which the reset write operation will be performed and second memory cells on which the set write operation will be performed. The control logic controls based on the determination result the reset write operation on the first memory cells and the set write operation on the second memory cells.

In the present embodiment the reset write operation may be performed by an erase operation and a set direction programming operation. Also the set write operation may be performed by a set direction programming operation with respect to the second memory cells. Accordingly in response to the write command the control logic performs the pre read operation the comparing operation and the determining operation controls the erase operation to be selectively performed on the first memory cells and then controls the set direction programming operation to be performed on at least some memory cells from among the first and second memory cells. By doing so resistance values of variable resistors of the first memory cells are increased according to the erase operation and then are decreased according to the set direction programming operation so that the reset write operation is performed on the first memory cells. Also resistance values of variable resistors of the second memory cells are decreased according to the set direction programming operation so that the set write operation is performed on the second memory cells.

Referring to the cell block BLK includes memory cells in a horizontal structure. Notably the rest of the cell blocks of the plurality of memory blocks may be embodied in the same manner as the cell block BLK of . The cell block BLK includes a plurality of word lines WL through WLn a plurality of bit lines BL through BLm and a plurality of memory cells MC. The number of the word lines WL the number of the bit lines BL and the number of the memory cells MC may vary according to various embodiments. Also the memory cells MC that are selected by one word line may be defined as a page unit PAGE.

In the present embodiment each of the plurality of memory cells MC includes a variable resistor R and a selection device D. The variable resistor R may be referred to as a variable resistor device or variable resistor material and the selection device D may be referred to as a switching device.

In an embodiment each variable resistor R is connected between one of the bit lines BL through BLm and the selection device D and each selection device D is connected between the variable resistor device R and one of the word lines WL through WLn. However various embodiments of the inventive concept are not limited thereto. For example the selection device D may be connected between one of the bit lines BL through BLm and the variable resistor R and the variable resistor R may be connected between the selection device D and one of the word lines WL through WLn.

In the present embodiment the variable resistor R may be changed to one of multiple resistive states in response to an electric pulse applied thereto. For example the variable resistor R may include a phase change material the crystal state of which changes according to current. The phase change material may include various materials GaSb InSb InSe or Sb2Te3 obtained by compounding two elements GeSbTe GaSeTe InSbTe SnSb2Te4 or InSbGe obtained by compounding three elements or AgInSbTe GeSn SbTe GeSb SeTe Te81Ge15Sb2S2 obtained by compounding four elements for example.

The phase change material has an amorphous state that is relatively resistive and a crystal state that is relatively low resistive. The phase of the phase change material may be changed by Joule s heat that is generated by the current. Data may be written using the change of the phase.

In an embodiment the variable resistor R may not include phase change material but may include perovskite compounds transition metal oxide magnetic materials ferromagnetic materials or antiferromagnetic materials for example.

As mentioned above the selection device D may be connected between one of the word lines WL through WLm and the variable resistor R and according to a voltage applied to the connected word line and bit line a current that is supplied to the variable resistor R is controlled. In the present embodiment the selection device D may be a PN junction diode or a PIN junction diode for example. An anode of the diode may be connected to the variable resistor R and a cathode of the diode may be connected to one of the word lines WL through WLm. Here when a voltage difference between the anode and the cathode of the diode is greater than a threshold voltage of the diode the diode is turned on so that the current may be supplied to the variable resistor R.

Referring to a memory cell MCa includes a variable resistor Ra connected between a bit line BL and a word line WL. The memory cell MCa may store data due to voltages that are applied to the bit line BL and the word line WL respectively.

Referring to a memory cell MCb includes a variable resistor Rb and a bidirectional diode Db. The variable resistor Rb may include a resistive material so as to store data. The bidirectional diode Db connected is between the variable resistor Rb and a word line WL and the variable resistor Rb is connected between a bit line BL and the bidirectional diode Db. Positions of the bidirectional diode Db and the variable resistor Rb may be changed with respect to each other. Use of the bidirectional diode Db cuts leakage current that may flow a non selected resistor cell.

Referring to a memory cell MCc includes a variable resistor Rc and a transistor TR. The transistor TR may be a selection device i.e. a switching device that supplies or cuts a current to the variable resistor Rc according to a voltage of a word line WL. In the embodiment of in addition to the word line WL a source line SL may be additionally arranged to adjust voltage levels at both ends of the variable resistor Rc. The transistor TR is connected between the variable resistor Rc and the source line SL and the variable resistor R is connected between a bit line BL and the transistor TR. Positions of the transistor TR and the variable resistor Rc may be changed with respect to each other. The memory cell MCc may be selected or not be selected according to whether the transistor TR that is driven by the word line WL is ON or OFF.

As shown on the right side of the graph of according to set direction programming the resistance value of the variable resistor may be decreased or the state of the memory cell may be changed to a higher state among multiple states . In comparison hand as shown on the left side of the graph according to a reset direction programming the resistance value of the variable resistor may be increased or the state of the memory cell may be changed to a lower state among the multiple states .

Also as shown on the left side of the graph when the reset direction programming is performed current level sharply varies according to variation of voltage level such that it is relatively difficult to control the voltage level in order to change each of the states. In other words that it is relatively difficult to control states in a reset direction. In comparison as shown on the right side of the graph when the set direction programming is performed the current values of the different states are relatively far apart. That is when the set direction programming is performed by limiting current the current values for changing states respectively have large differences therebetween so that it is relatively easy to control states in a set direction.

As shown in the graph showing current and voltage characteristics it is relatively easy to control the set direction programming so that write data may be overwritten to and may be stored in the memory cells e.g. the second memory cells on which the set write operation will be performed. That is the write operation with respect to the second memory cells may be performed by an overwrite operation and states of the second memory cells that correspond to currently stored data may be changed and thus may correspond to the write data. As illustrated in when currently stored data of a memory cell corresponds to a first state i.e. State1 and write data corresponds to a third state i.e. State3 or the set state a state of the memory cell may be changed from the first state i.e. State1 to the third state i.e. State3 by the set direction programming.

Afterward set direction programming is performed on at least some first memory cells of the multiple first memory cells. Since the write data corresponds to the second state i.e. State2 and states of the erased first memory cells correspond to the erase state i.e. State0 the states of the first memory cells may be changed from the erase state i.e. State0 to the second state i.e. State2 by the set direction programming. That is when the reset write operation is first performed on the first memory cells in order to change the states of the first memory cells from the third state i.e. State3 to the second state i.e. State2 the program operation then may be performed by changing the states of the first memory cells from the erase state i.e. State0 to the second state i.e. State2 making it relatively easier to control the change in the states of the memory cells in the set direction .

According to the present embodiment it is possible to prevent the erase operation from being performed on all memory cells so that the possibility is decreased that the durability of the memory device deteriorates due to repetition of erase operations and reliability of a data write operation is improved.

The control logic includes the comparing unit and the set reset determining unit . The control logic compares write data DATA with read data D pre where the write data DATA is accompanied by a write command and the read data D pre is read according to a pre read operation and thus determines whether to perform a set write operation or a reset write operation on each of memory cells. The control logic controls based on the determination result a write operation with respect to the memory cell array .

According to the result of comparing the write data DATA and the read data D pre when a resistance value that corresponds to the write data DATA to be stored in a memory cell is greater than a resistance value that corresponds to the read data D pre the memory cell may be determined to be a memory cell e.g. a first memory cell on which the reset write operation will be performed. In other words when a state that corresponds to the write data DATA is lower than a state that corresponds to the read data D pre the memory cell may be determined to be the first memory cell. In comparison when a resistance value that corresponds to the write data DATA to be stored in a memory cell is less than a resistance value that corresponds to the read data D pre the memory cell may be determined to be a memory cell e.g. a second memory cell on which the set write operation will be performed. In other words when a state that corresponds to the write data DATA is higher than a state that corresponds to the read data D pre the memory cell may be determined to be the second memory cell.

According to the determination results access target memory cells or memory cells to which data will be written may be divided into multiple cell regions. For example a region that includes memory cells on which the reset write operation is to be performed may be classified as a first cell region a region that includes memory cells on which the set write operation is to be performed may be classified as a second cell region and a region that includes memory cells in which a state of the write data DATA is equal to a state of the read data D pre may be classified as a third cell region. According to various embodiments the control logic controls a write operation with respect to the memory cell array . For example the control logic may perform the write operation by performing an erase operation on the memory cells e.g. first memory cells of the first cell region and then performing a set direction programming PGM set on the first memory cells. Also the control logic may perform the write operation by performing the set direction programming PGM set on the memory cells e.g. the second memory cells of the second region without performing the erase operation on the second memory cells. The control logic may skip the write operation on the memory cells e.g. third memory cells of the third cell region.

A write command requesting a data write operation on one or more memory cells is received S and the memory device performs a pre read operation on the one or more memory cells S thus generating pre read data. In order to determine whether to perform a set write operation or a reset write operation on each of the one or more memory cells the memory device compares the pre read data with write data that accompanies the write command S . The memory device determines whether to perform the set write operation or the reset write operation on each of the one or more memory cells S based on the comparison. The comparing and determining operations are the same as or similar to those described in the various more embodiments.

According to the determination results the memory device performs an erase operation on some memory cells of the one or more memory cells S as described above. Since the erase operation is performed on the some memory cells e.g. first memory cells on which the reset write operation will be performed resistance values of variable resistors of the first memory cells are increased to resistance values that correspond to a largest distribution e.g. a reset state from among multiple resistance distributions.

The memory device then performs set direction programming on the one or more memory cells according to the write data S . For example values of variable resistors of some memory cells e.g. second memory cells on which the set write operation will be performed are decreased from resistance values that correspond to pre stored data to resistance values that correspond to the write data. Also values of the variable resistors of the first memory cells are decreased from the resistance values that correspond to the reset state to resistance values that correspond to the write data. That is an operation of programming the one or more memory cells to a state that corresponds to the write data is performed by the set direction programming. When the reset write operation corresponds to an operation of writing data that corresponds to the largest distribution e.g. the reset state from among the resistance distributions it is not necessary to perform the set direction programming on those first memory cells.

As illustrated in the memory device performs the pre read operation in response to the write command and compares the write data with the pre read data not shown in and then determines whether to perform the set write operation or the reset write operation on each of the one or more memory cells S . By comparing the write data with the pre read data the memory device may determine whether a state of the pre read data is equal to a state of the write data .

When the state of the pre read data is equal to the state of the write data the memory device skips the write operation with respect to the memory cell S . When the state of the pre read data is not equal to the state of the write data the memory device determines whether the memory cell corresponds to a memory cell on which the reset write operation will be performed S .

As the determination result when the memory cell corresponds to the memory cell on which the reset write operation will be performed the memory device erases data stored in the memory cell S and thus changes a state of the memory cell to a reset state in which a variable resistor of the memory cell has a relatively large resistance value. Then the memory device decreases or may perform the set direction programming the resistance value of the variable resistor of the memory cell of which state was changed to the reset state and thus writes the data S .

When the memory cell does not correspond to the memory cell on which the reset write operation will be performed the memory device decreases the resistance value of the variable resistor of the memory cell without performing an erase operation and thus writes the data S .

Referring to a memory device includes a memory cell array a write read circuit and control logic . The memory device further includes a row decoder and a column decoder . In the present embodiment the memory device also includes a comparing unit for comparing pre read data with write data and a determining unit for determining according to the comparison result whether to perform a set write operation or a reset write operation on each of the memory cells. At least one of the comparing unit and the determining unit may be arranged outside the control logic . For example as shown in a data analyzing unit for analyzing data is disposed outside the control logic and includes a comparing unit and a set reset determining unit .

According to comparable operations described above with respect to various embodiments the comparing unit generates comparison results by comparing the pre read data with the write data and the set reset determining unit analyzes the comparison results and thus determines whether a write request with respect to each of memory cells corresponds to a set write operation or a reset write operation. The determination results may be provided to the control logic . Based on the determination results the control logic controls the set write operation and the reset write operation with respect to the memory cells accordingly. For example as described above the control logic may erase data of the memory cells and may perform the reset write operation by set direction programming or may perform the set write operation by the set direction programming without performing an erase operation.

As illustrated in in a case in which a data state changes in the right direction on the graph according to a data write operation the case may be defined as a reset write operation Write reset and in a case in which a data state changes in the left direction on the graph according to a data write operation the case may be defined as a set write operation Write set. In the reset write operation Write reset a state of a memory cell may be changed to an uppermost state i.e. State3 by an erase operation. Then after a set direction programming PGM set is performed the state of the memory cell may be changed to a state lower than the erase state. Also in the set write operation Write set it is not necessary to perform the erase operation and thus the state of the memory cell may be changed to lower state by the set direction programming PGM set.

The one or more embodiments of the inventive concept may vary. For example as in the example of data may be written to the memory cells by performing a reset direction programming on the memory cells according to an embodiment of the inventive concept.

When a write command is received a pre read operation is performed on one or more memory cells and a comparing operation is performed in order to compare read data with write data accompanying the write command. Then the comparison result is analyzed and some memory cells e.g. first memory cells on which a reset write operation will be performed and other memory cells e.g. second memory cells on which a set write operation will be performed is determined.

Then reset direction programming is performed on the second memory cell and thus a resistance value of a variable resistor of the second memory cell is increased. Therefore a state of the second memory cell is changed to the first state State1. That is the write data may be written to the second memory cell by the reset direction programming.

As illustrated in the memory device receives a write command S and the memory device performs a pre read operation on access target memory cells S . The pre read data is compared with write data that accompanies the write command S . Also according to the comparison results the memory device determines one or more memory cells e.g. first memory cells on which a reset write operation will be performed and one or more memory cells e.g. second memory cells on which a set write operation will be performed S .

When the first and second memory cells are determined based on the comparing and determining operations a data write operation is performed based on the determination result. The memory device may perform set direction programming on some memory cells from among the access target memory cells and thus change the states of those memory cells to a set state S e.g. the memory device may change states of the second memory cells to the set state. Then the memory device may perform reset direction programming on the first and second memory cells according to the write data and thus change the states of the first and second memory cells to correspond to the write data S .

As illustrated in when currently stored data of a memory cell corresponds to a set state State3 and write data corresponds to a first state State1 the reset write operation is performed as below. According to states of the currently stored data and the write data an erase operation may or may not be performed. For example when the state of the write data is lower than the state of the currently stored data by at least two stages the erase operation may be skipped. In comparison when the state of the write data is lower than the state of the currently stored data by one stage and thus is close to the state of the currently stored data the erase operation may be performed. However in an embodiment the erase operation may be performed or may be skipped according to another condition. In particular when the memory cell is a multilevel cell that stores data of at least 3 bits a condition of the erase operation may be variously set.

When the state of the currently stored data corresponds to a set state State3 for example and the state of the write data corresponds to a first state State1 the write data may be written to the memory cell by a reset direction programming without the erase operation. That is as depicted on the graph showing current and voltage characteristics the difference between a voltage level that corresponds to the set state State3 and a voltage level that corresponds to the first state State1 is relatively greater than the difference between voltage levels when the state of the write data is close to the state of the currently stored data in which case it is relatively easy to control the reset write operation. Accordingly even when the reset write operation is performed as in the embodiment of if the state of the write data is lower than the state of the currently stored data by at least two stages the write data may be written to the memory cell by the reset direction programming without the erase operation.

On the other hand as illustrated in when a state of currently stored data of a memory cell corresponds to a second state State2 and a state of a write data corresponds to a first state State1 for a reset write operation an erase operation may be performed on the memory cell. Since the erase operation is performed the state of the memory cell may be changed to an erase state State0 and then set direction programming is performed on the memory cell so that the state of the memory cell may be changed to the first state State1. As described in the one or more embodiments in the embodiments of a set write operation may be performed by set direction programming without an erase operation.

The write operation of the memory device may include a set write operation period and a reset write operation period. The reset direction programming of and the erase operation of may be performed together during the reset write operation period. In the present embodiment the number of the memory cells on which the erase operation will be performed may be further decreased.

As illustrated in the memory device receives a write command S and performs in response to the write command a pre read operation on access target memory cells S . Then the memory device compares the pre read data with the write command and determines the comparison result S . According to the comparison and determination results one or more first memory cells are determined on which a reset write operation will be performed and one or more second memory cells are determined on which a set write operation will be performed.

Similar other embodiments the memory device performs an erase operation on some memory cells e.g. the first memory cells of the access target memory cells S and then performs set direction programming on at least some of the first memory cells and second memory cells according to the write data S . Since the set direction programming is performed the write data is written. For verification of the written data the memory device performs a verification read operation S . According to the result of the verification read operation the memory device determines whether a write error exists in a memory cell S . If a write error exists the memory device may repeatedly perform the set direction programming and the verification read operation again determining whether a write error exists. According to the verification result if a write error does not exist the memory device ends the write operation S .

As illustrated in similar to other embodiments in response to a write command the memory device writes data to one or more memory cells by performing set direction programming and performs a verification read operation on the write data. That is the write command is received S the data is pre read in response to the write command S and the pre read data and write data that accompanies the write command are compared to determined the difference S . Depending on the determination an erase operation may be performed on some memory cells e.g. first memory cells S . The set direction programming is performed on the write data S and the verification read operation is performed S .

As a result of the verification read operation the memory device determines whether a reset direction error exits in the first memory cells S . The reset direction error may occur when data of the first memory cells is not normally erased by the erase operation. If a reset direction error exits the memory device may re perform an erase operation on the first memory cells set direction programming and the verification read operation. After the verification process if the memory device determines that a reset direction error does not exit the memory device determines whether a set direction error exists so as to determine whether the data is normally written to the first memory cells by the set direction programming S .

The set direction error may occur when states of the first memory cells are not normally changed from an erase state to a higher state or when states of second memory cells are not normally changed from a current state to a higher state. As a result of the determination regarding the set direction error if a set direction error exists the memory device may repeatedly perform the set direction programming and the verification read operation for determining existence of a set direction error. As a result of determination whether a set direction error exists if no memory cell has a set direction error the memory device ends the write operation S . In the present embodiment according to types of error the error may be differently repaired in each of the memory cells and thus in the verification write operation data may be written to the memory cells by the set direction programming.

Referring to the memory cell array includes multiple memory blocks BLK through BLKz. Each of the memory blocks BLK through BLKz has a three dimensional structure or a vertical structure . Also each of the memory blocks BLK through BLKz may include multiple cell strings that extend in a direction perpendicular to a substrate. Cell strings of one memory block may be connected to bit lines one or more string selection lines and word lines. The cell strings of the memory blocks BLK through BLKz may share bit lines BL.

Referring to the memory cell array includes representative memory blocks BLK through BLKz that are three dimensionally stacked. Also the memory cell array includes multiple local bit lines LBL through LBL that extend in parallel in a Z axis direction and multiple local word lines LWL through LWL that extend in parallel in a Y axis direction that is perpendicular to the Z axis direction. Also the local bit lines LBL through LBL may be connected to global bit lines GBL through GBL.

Referring to the first memory block BLK memory cells of the memory cell array are connected between the local word lines LWL through LWL and the local bit lines LBL through LBL respectively. A write operation or a read operation may be performed on the memory cells by a current or a voltage that is applied to the local word lines LWL through LWL and or the local bit lines LBL through LBL. In the present embodiment a current or a voltage that is applied to the local word lines LWL through LWL and the local bit lines LBL through LBL may be provided to allow the write operation according to various embodiments herein. For example for memory cells on which a reset write operation will be performed an erase current or an erase voltage may be provided to allow an erase operation to be first performed on the memory cells and then a write current or a write voltage for set direction programming may be provided. Also in relation to the embodiments that are described with reference to one embodiment may be commonly applied to the memory blocks BLK through BLKz or various embodiments may be applied to the memory blocks BLK through BLKz respectively.

Referring to a memory card system includes a host and a memory card . The host includes a host controller and a host connector . The memory card includes a card connector a card controller and a memory device . Here the memory device may be implemented according to various embodiments shown in so that the memory device may compare and determine write data and pre read data perform an erase operation on memory cells on which a reset write operation will be performed and then write data on the memory cells by set direction programming.

The host may write data to the memory card or may read data stored in the memory card . The host controller may transmit a command CMD a clock signal CLK generated by a clock generator not shown in the host and data DATA to the memory card via the host connector .

In response to the command CMD received via the card connector the card controller may store the data DATA in the memory device in synchronization with a clock signal that is generated by a clock generator not shown in the card controller . The memory device may store the data DATA that is transmitted from the host .

The memory card may be embodied as a compact flash card CFC a microdrive an SMC an MMC a Security Digital Card SDC a memory stick or a USB flash memory drive for example.

According to the present embodiment in response to a write command each of the memory devices through may compare and determine write data and pre read data perform an erase operation only on memory cells on which a reset write operation will be performed and write data on the memory cells by set direction programming.

Referring to a computing system includes a memory system a processor RAM an input output I O device and a power supply device . The memory system includes a memory device and a memory controller . Although not illustrated in the computing system may further include ports capable of communicating with a video card a sound card a memory card or a USB device or other electronic devices. The computing system may be embodied as a PC or a portable electronic device such as a notebook computer a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA or a camera for example.

The processor may perform particular calculations or tasks. In various embodiments the processor may be a micro processor a Central Processing Unit CPU or the like. The processor may perform communication with the RAM the I O device and the memory system via a bus such as an address bus a control bus or a data bus for example. Here the memory system and or the RAM may be implemented according to various embodiments shown in .

In one or more embodiments the processor may also be connected to an extended bus such as a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus.

The RAM may store data for operations of the computing system . As described above the memory device according to the various embodiments of the inventive concept may be applied to the RAM . Alternatively a DRAM a mobile DRAM an SRAM a PRAM a FeRAM or an MRAM may be used as the RAM for example.

The I O device may also include an input unit not shown such as a keyboard a keypad or a mouse and an output unit not shown such as a printer or a display. The power supply device may supply an operating voltage for the operations of the computing system .

While the inventive concept has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the inventive concept. Therefore it should be understood that the above embodiments are not limiting but illustrative.

