---
title: Method and apparatus for providing relevant point of interest on a multi-modal route
abstract: An approach is provided for determining relevant point of interest for a user on a multi-modal route. The multi-modal route includes a plurality of segments that employ a plurality of modes of transport, and wherein the multi-modal route further includes a plurality of transition waypoints for transitioning between the plurality of segments. Then, one or more search results for the at least one search are determined. Subsequently, the one or more search results are a prioritized by determining at least one change in one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints that would result if the one or more search results were to be incorporated into the at least one multi-modal route.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09518831&OS=09518831&RS=09518831
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09518831
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20150102
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been searching and presenting relevant Point of Interest POI for users along multi modal routes. At present service providers implement a boxed search method for searching POIs this method neither acknowledges the real routing distance from a route to the POIs nor considers the mode of transportation a user has available. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges in determining the appropriateness of a POI for each segment of a multi modal route based at least in part on the location information the temporal information the modes of transportation or a combination thereof.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for determining relevant POI e.g. POIs proximate to the current location of a user POIs that can be reached the quickest POIs that are highly rated and popular etc. for a user on a multi modal route.

According to one embodiment a method comprises receiving a request to perform at least one search for one or more points of interest along at least one multi modal route wherein the multi modal route includes a plurality of segments that employ a plurality of modes of transport and wherein the multi modal route further includes a plurality of transition waypoints for transitioning between the plurality of segments. The method also comprises determining one or more search results for the at least one search. The method also comprises causing at least in part a prioritization of the one or more search results by determining at least one change in one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints that would result if the one or more search results were to be incorporated into the at least one multi modal route.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to cause at least in part a reception of a request to perform at least one search for one or more points of interest along at least one multi modal route wherein the multi modal route includes a plurality of segments that employ a plurality of modes of transport and wherein the multi modal route further includes a plurality of transition waypoints for transitioning between the plurality of segments. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more search results for the at least one search. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a prioritization of the one or more search results by determining at least one change in one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints that would result if the one or more search results were to be incorporated into the at least one multi modal route.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to cause at least in part a receiving of a request to perform at least one search for one or more points of interest along at least one multi modal route wherein the multi modal route includes a plurality of segments that employ a plurality of modes of transport and wherein the multi modal route further includes a plurality of transition waypoints for transitioning between the plurality of segments. The apparatus is further caused to determine one or more search results for the at least one search. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a prioritization of the one or more search results by determining at least one change in one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints that would result if the one or more search results were to be incorporated into the at least one multi modal route.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for receiving a request to perform at least one search for one or more points of interest along at least one multi modal route wherein the multi modal route includes a plurality of segments that employ a plurality of modes of transport and wherein the multi modal route further includes a plurality of transition waypoints for transitioning between the plurality of segments. The apparatus also comprises means for determining one or more search results for the at least one search. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a prioritization of the one or more search results by determining at least one change in one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints that would result if the one or more search results were to be incorporated into the at least one multi modal route.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing a method of any of the claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing prioritized locations of interest on a route are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Typically the locations of interest or POI are searched and presented for the navigation routes based on interest criteria provided by the device user. For example the user may request for a fuel station on the route accordingly the fuel stations on or near the route are presented to the user. The user may then transition at a waypoint on the route to visit the POI and then again join the route at a waypoint. However as noted previously such searches fail to provide a prioritized POI based on the transition waypoints of the multi modal route.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to provide prioritized POI on a route. In one embodiment the multi modal route may include one or more segments. For example the segments on the route may be defined by one or more points such as cities or blocks on the route. Further the modes of transport may be different for each of these segments. For example one segment may be travelled in part on foot or in a pedestrian mode and other part in driving mode while the next segment may be travelled completely by using a public transport. In addition the system may present one or more transition waypoints on the one or more segments. In one embodiment the mode of transport may be changed at the one or more transition waypoints. In one embodiment the one or more transition waypoints include at least in part one or more parking locations one or more transit stops or a combination thereof. In one scenario a segment A B may include transition waypoints W and W such that the user travels on foot from A to W then in a car from W to W and finally in a train from W to B.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UEs collectively referred to as UE that may include or be associated with applications collectively referred to as applications and sensors collectively referred to as sensors . In one embodiment the UE has connectivity to the navigation platform via the communication network .

By way of example the UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. . In one embodiment the UE may be included within the one or more vehicles.

By way of example the applications may be any type of application that is executable at the UE such as location based services e.g. providing proximity information messaging applications e.g. SMS MMS etc. an Internet browser media applications e.g. music and or video streaming photo exchange etc. social networking applications etc. In one embodiment the UE may use applications to convey navigation services to one or more users. In another embodiment the applications may aid the navigation platform in causing at least in part a presentation of multiple display of one or more map features which includes a map view and or an information view based at least in part on a determination of an input for specifying one or more map features for at least one destination.

By way of example the sensors may be any type of sensor. In one embodiment the sensors may include one or more sensors that may assist the navigation platform to determine route information for at least one destination. In one scenario the sensors may include location sensors e.g. GPS light sensors oriental sensors augmented with height sensor and acceleration sensor tilt sensors tactile sensors pressure sensors audio sensors e.g. microphone or receivers for different short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi etc. .

The communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment the navigation platform may be a platform with multiple interconnected components. The navigation platform may include multiple servers intelligent networking devices computing devices components and corresponding software for causing a presentation of multiple representation of one or more POI on one or more segments of routing information in one or more user interface elements of a user interface.

In one embodiment the navigation platform receives a request to perform at least one search for one or more POI along at least one multi modal route. In one embodiment the multi modal route includes a plurality of segments that employ a plurality of modes of transport. Further the multi modal route includes a plurality of transition waypoints for transitioning between the plurality of segments. For example the request may be received from a user of UE and includes information or search criteria related to the POI such as search for fuel stations along the route. In addition the request may include information related to a starting point and a destination point. By way of example the starting point information such as geographic coordinates may be detected by sensors of the UE . In one embodiment the navigation platform may generate the multi modal route and determine the segments and the transition waypoints along the route. As noted previously the transition waypoints include at least in part one or more parking locations one or more transit stops or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the navigation platform determines one or more search results for the at least one search. For example the search results may include POIs based on request received e.g. search distance search priority etc. from the UE . In one embodiment the navigation platform determines the search results by determining search priority information search distance information or a combination thereof independently for the plurality of segments based on the plurality of modes of transport used during a respective one of the plurality of segments. By way of example if a user travels a segment on foot or a pedestrian mode the search priority may be of a nearest POI e.g. less than 1 KM while on a segment with a driving mode a farther POI e.g. less than 2 KM is also searched. In one embodiment the navigation platform causes a recommendation of one or more new segments one or more new modes of transport or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more search results.

In one embodiment the navigation platform causes at least in part a prioritization of the one or more search results. The prioritization may be based on a determination of at least one change in one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints that would result if the one or more search results were to be incorporated into the at least one multi modal route. By way of example the prioritized search results may be presented to the user for more effective selection of a POI. In one scenario the change in the locations of the waypoints may result if a particular search result e.g. a point of interest is selected by the user. In this case the navigation platform generates alternative waypoints based on the selections and accordingly prioritizes the search results by effective selection by the user. For example the search results that would result in minimum changes to the determined locations of the transition waypoints may be prioritized for selection by the user.

In one embodiment the prioritization of the one or more search results is based on proximity information type information ratings information user history information or a combination thereof. Type information of the POI may include for example an emergency location such as a hospital or a clinic a shop such a convenience store etc. Further the user history may relate to for example a frequent location or location type that the user visits on a route e.g. the user may daily visit a convenience store while coming back to home from office . In one embodiment the navigation platform receives an input for specifying at least one target proximity at least one target type at least one target rating at least one target user history or a combination thereof. For example a user may specify the target proximity as less than 1.5 KM from a current location. Similarly the user may specify the target type for example as convenience store and or target rating to highest. In one embodiment the navigation platform calculates change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints based on selection of the one or more search results that meet the target proximity at least one target type at least one target rating at least one target user history or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the prioritization by the navigation platform is based on determination of a reachability information for the one or more search results based on the change in the one or more locations of the transition waypoints. The reachability information may indicate a degree to which the one or more search results are reachable by a user using a respective one of the plurality of modes of transport. For example a search result or a POI within 1 KM distance from a current location may have higher reachability and be prioritized if the pedestrian mode of transport is used for a segment.

In one embodiment the navigation platform receives an input for specifying a selection of the one or more search results. Consequently the navigation platform causes at least in part an incorporation of the selected one or more search results into the at least one multi modal route by incorporating the at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints. In one embodiment the navigation platform causes at least in part a recommendation of one or more new segments one or more new modes of transport or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more search results. By way of example the navigation platform may cause change in the location of the transition waypoints to generate a modified route and modes of transport if the search results are selected by the user. One exemplary scenario is explained in conjunction with .

In one embodiment the navigation platform may include or have access to the geographic database to access or store any kind of data associated with POI such as historical user information location proximity information temporal information contextual information etc. Data stored in the geographic database may for instance be provided by the UE the services platform one or more services or services or one or more content providers or content providers .

The services platform may include any type of service. By way of example the services platform may include mapping services navigation services travel planning services social networking services content e.g. audio video images etc. provisioning services application services storage services contextual information determination services location based services information e.g. weather news etc. based services etc. In one embodiment the services platform may interact with the UE the navigation platform and the content providers to supplement or aid in the processing of the content information. In other embodiments the services platform the services the applications etc. may be used to allow the users of UE to cause a presentation of one or more segments of routing information one or more modes of transport one or more points of interests one or more transition waypoints in one or more user interface elements of a user interface.

By way of example services may be an online service that reflects interests and or activities of users. In one scenario the services provide representations of each user e.g. a profile his her social links and a variety of additional information. The services allow users to share location information activities information contextual information and interests within their individual networks and provides for data portability. The services may additionally assist in providing the navigation platform with travel information of the one or more geo routes and or location anchors etc.

The content providers may provide content to the UE the navigation platform and the services of the services platform . The content provided may be any type of content such as textual content audio content video content image content etc. In one embodiment the content providers may provide content that may supplement content of the applications the sensors or a combination thereof. By way of example the content providers may provide content that may aid in the processing of the content information associated with POI to determine route information. In one embodiment the content providers may also store content associated with the UE the navigation platform and the services of the services platform . In another embodiment the content providers may manage access to a central repository of data and offer a consistent standard interface to data such as a repository of users navigational data content.

By way of example the UE the navigation platform the services platform and the content providers communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In exemplary embodiments the road segment data records are links or segments representing roads streets or paths as can be used in the calculated route or recorded route information for determination of one or more personalized routes according to exemplary embodiments. The node data records are end points corresponding to the respective links or segments of the road segment data records . The road link data records and the node data records represent a road network such as used by vehicles cars and or other entities. Alternatively the geographic database can contain path segment and node data records or other data that represent pedestrian paths or areas in addition to or instead of the vehicle road record data for example.

The road link segments and nodes can be associated with attributes such as geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and other navigation related attributes as well as POIs such as gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks etc. The geographic database can include data about the POIs and their respective locations in the POI data records . The geographic database can also include data about places such as cities towns or other communities and other geographic features such as bodies of water mountain ranges etc. Such place or feature data can be part of the POI data records or can be associated with POIs or POI data records such as a data point used for displaying or representing a position of a city . In addition the geographic database can include data from radio advertisements associated with the POI data records and their respective locations in the radio generated POI records . By way of example a street is determined from the user interaction with the UE and the content information associated with UE according to the various embodiments described herein.

The geographic database can be maintained by the content provider in association with the services platform e.g. a map developer . The map developer can collect geographic data to generate and enhance the geographic database . There can be different ways used by the map developer to collect data. These ways can include obtaining data from other sources such as municipalities or respective geographic authorities. In addition the map developer can employ field personnel to travel by vehicle along roads throughout the geographic region to observe features and or record information about them for example. Also remote sensing such as aerial or satellite photography can be used.

The geographic database can be a master geographic database stored in a format that facilitates updating maintenance and development. For example the master geographic database or data in the master geographic database can be in an Oracle spatial format or other spatial format such as for development or production purposes. The Oracle spatial format or development production database can be compiled into a delivery format such as a geographic data files GDF format. The data in the production and or delivery formats can be compiled or further compiled to form geographic database products or databases which can be used in end user navigation devices or systems.

For example geographic data is compiled such as into a platform specification format PSF format to organize and or configure the data for performing navigation related functions and or services such as route calculation route guidance map display speed calculation distance and travel time functions and other functions by a navigation device such as by a UE for example. The navigation related functions can correspond to vehicle navigation pedestrian navigation or other types of navigation. The compilation to produce the end user databases can be performed by a party or entity separate from the map developer. For example a customer of the map developer such as a navigation device developer or other end user device developer can perform compilation on a received geographic database in a delivery format to produce one or more compiled navigation databases.

As mentioned above the geographic database can be a master geographic database but in alternate embodiments the geographic database can represent a compiled navigation database that can be used in or with end user devices e.g. UE to provided navigation related functions. For example the geographic database can be used with the end user device UE to provide an end user with navigation features. In such a case the geographic database can be downloaded or stored on the end user device UE such as in applications or the end user device UE can access the geographic database through a wireless or wired connection such as via a server and or the communication network for example.

In one embodiment the end user device or UE can be an in vehicle navigation system a personal navigation device PND a portable navigation device a cellular telephone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a watch a camera a computer and or other device that can perform navigation related functions such as digital routing and map display. In one embodiment the navigation device UE can be a cellular telephone. An end user can use the device UE for navigation functions such as guidance and map display for example and for determination of one or more personalized routes or route segments based on one or more calculated and recorded routes according to exemplary embodiments.

In one embodiment the location module can determine the user s location. The user s location can be determined by a triangulation system such as GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies as well as proximity location indicators such as a signal from a wireless local area network WLAN a Bluetooth system or the like. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . For instance a GPS system may narrow the location of the UE to a building and a WLAN signal can determine UE locations within the building. In one embodiment the location module aids the navigation platform to determine a change in the location information thereby causing a transition from one navigation segment to another navigation segment and or from one transition waypoint to another transition waypoint. In another embodiment the location module assists the navigation platform in causing a notification to at least one user upon determination that the user has reached at least one destination.

In one embodiment the context information processing module receives context information as gathered by the sensors of respective UE and or the geographic database and or services . Once received the context information processing module analyzes the context information to determine the relative location time position and other information useful for generating a map and or route in association with a specified location and or source and destination locations. Based on this determination the context information processing module triggers execution of the prioritization module which facilitates the querying retrieval of associated map and or route image data from the geographic database corresponding to the locations. In one embodiment the context information processing module processes and or facilitates a processing of contextual information of at least one UE thereby assisting the navigation platform to cause a presentation of one or more points of interest one or more waypoints one or more modes of transport based at least in part on the contextual information the location information the point of interest information or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the prioritization module facilitates gathering of the various map and or route images corresponding to the one or more search results via a mapping application or service. In addition the prioritization module determines and or retrieves the various map and or route images corresponding to a specified route. It is noted in certain embodiments that the prioritization module may facilitate various image rendering blending merging and other compilation techniques for producing a user friendly map image.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentation of a graphical user interface for displaying map images in connection with a selected destination. By way of example the user interface module generates the user interface element in response to detection of an input for selection of a particular destination. As another example the user interface module enables colorful presentation and highlighting of points of interest related to the particular destination or the route presented via the user interface. Of note the user interface module triggers execution of the various other modules including the location module and the prioritization module in response to user input. The user interface module employs various application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the applications of UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives such as menus buttons data entry fields etc. for generating the user interface elements. Still further the user interface module may be configured to operate in connection with augmented reality AR processing techniques wherein various different applications graphic elements and features may interact. For example the user interface module may coordinate the presentation of augmented reality map images in conjunction with various images for a given location or in response to a selected destination. In one example embodiment the at least one user interface element and or the at least one second user interface may be a sub window of the user interface element wherein the at least one first representation of one or more prioritized search results of routing information may be updated based at least in part on the user interaction with the at least one second user interface element.

In one embodiment the communication module enables formation of a session over a communication network between the navigation platform and the services . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a UE and the navigation platform over the communication network .

The presentation module makes a colored presentation of the map with determined routes points of interest and or transition waypoints and highlighted therein upon receiving the data from the communication module . The presentation module may utilize the geographic database and or services to determine whether the information for a route is up to date. This module obtains a set of summary statistics from other modules. Then the module continues with generating a presentation corresponding to the destination. Subsequently the module continues with providing a presentation of data set where the presentation could be depicted in one or more visual display units.

The above presented modules and components of the navigation platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the navigation platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UE . As such the navigation platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the applications . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UEs the navigation platform or combination thereof. Still further the navigation platform may be integrated for direct operation with services such as in the form of a widget or applet in accordance with an information and or subscriber sharing arrangement. The various executions presented herein contemplate any and all arrangements and models.

The control logic executes at least one algorithm for executing functions at the presentation module . For example the control logic may interact with the input module to receive one or more requests to perform at least one search for one or more points of interest along at least one multi modal route. Wherein the multi modal route includes a plurality of segments that employ a plurality of modes of transport and wherein the multi modal route further includes a plurality of transition waypoints for transitioning between the plurality of segments.

Accordingly the search module determines the one or more search results. In one embodiment the search results are determined based at least in part on priority information distance information or a combination thereof. The control logic and the proximity module may determine distance information of the UE to the at least one segment and or the transition waypoints. Further the control logic may relay the distance information to the location module whereby the location module may instruct the navigation platform to cause a notification to the at least one user that he she has reached at least one segment a transition waypoint or a POI of the route.

The control logic and selection module may prioritize the one or more search results from the search module . In one embodiment the prioritization is based on determining at least one change in one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints that would result if the one or more search results were to be incorporated into the at least one multi modal route. In one embodiment the selection module may determine the change in one or more locations of the transition waypoints. Further the control logic may relay the prioritization information to the presentation module to present the prioritized search results along with the route information.

In one embodiment the selection module may determine a reachability information for the one or more search results based at least in part on the at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints. For example the reachability information indicates a degree to which the one or more search results are reachable by a user by using a respective one of the plurality of modes of transport. Accordingly the selection module may prioritize the one or more search results based at least in part on the reachability information.

In one embodiment the selection module may cause at least in part a recommendation of one or more new segments one or more new modes of transport or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more search results. Further the selection module may cause at least in part a designation of a maximum range for at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints. For example the maximum range of change in the location of a transition waypoint may be designated as 100 meters.

In one embodiment the input module may receive an input for specifying at least one target proximity at least one target type at least one target rating at least one target user history or a combination thereof. Accordingly the selection module causes a calculation of the at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints to select the one or more search results that meet the at least one target proximity the at least one target type the at least one target rating the at least one target user history or a combination thereof based at least in part on the proximity information the type information the ratings information the user history information or a combination thereof. As noted previously for example a user may specify the target proximity as less than 1.5 KM from a current location.

In one embodiment the input module may receive an input for specifying a selection of the one or more search results. For example the user may select a certain POI from the presented search results. Accordingly the selection module causes at least in part an incorporation of the selected one or more search results into the at least one multi modal route by incorporating the at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints.

In one embodiment the selection module may interact with other modules of the navigation platform to direct the one or more UE to the chosen route or POI. For example the control logic and applications may work together to determine navigation guidance information to cause at least in part a presentation of the one or more route information. In one scenario this may include UE displaying directions on how to reach the POI and the mode of transport.

In step the navigation platform receives a request to perform at least one search for one or more points of interest along at least one multi modal route. In one embodiment the multi modal route includes a plurality of segments that employ a plurality of modes of transport and wherein the multi modal route further includes a plurality of transition waypoints for transitioning between the plurality of segments. In one embodiment a user may request for one or more points of interest along the multi modal route. As noted previously the one or more modes of transport include at least in part a pedestrian mode a driving mode a public transit mode or a combination thereof. Further as noted previously the transition waypoints include at least in part one or more parking locations one or more transit stops or a combination thereof.

In step the navigation platform determines one or more search results for the at least one search. In one embodiment the one or more search results are determined based at least in part on a search priority information a search distance information or a combination thereof. The navigation platform determines the search priority information the search distance information or a combination thereof independently for the plurality of segments based at least in part on the plurality of modes of transport used during a respective one of the plurality of segments. By way of example if the mode of travel for a segment on the route is public transit then the search results e.g. a diner near the transit stops may be given priority over other search results.

In step the navigation platform causes at least in part a prioritization of the one or more search results. In one embodiment the prioritization is based on a determination of at least one change in one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints that would result if the one or more search results were to be incorporated into the at least one multi modal route. In one embodiment the navigation platform causes a designation of a maximum range for at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints. As noted previously in one scenario the change in the locations of the waypoints may result if a certain search result e.g. a POI is selected by the user. In this case the navigation platform generates alternative waypoints based on the selections and accordingly prioritizes the search results by effective selection by the user. For example the search results that would result in minimum changes to the determined locations of the transition waypoints may be prioritized for selection by the user. In one embodiment the prioritization of the one or more search results is further based at least in part on proximity information type information ratings information user history information or a combination thereof.

In step the navigation platform determines search priority information search distance information or a combination thereof independently for the plurality of segments based at least in part on which of the plurality of modes of transport is used during a respective one of the plurality of segments. In one embodiment the one or more search results are determined based at least in part on the search priority information the search distance information or a combination thereof.

In step the navigation platform determines reachability information for the one or more search results based at least in part on the at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints. In one embodiment the reachability information indicates a degree to which the one or more search results are reachable by a user using a respective one of the plurality of modes of transport. In one embodiment the prioritization of the one or more search results is further based at least in part on the reachability information. In one embodiment the reachability information indicates a degree to which the one or more search results are reachable by a user using a respective one of the plurality of modes of transport. By way of example a point of interest located at a distance of 2 KM may have lower reachability for a pedestrian mode as compared to the driving mode i.e. by a car . The navigation platform further prioritizes the one or more search results based on the reachability information. In one embodiment the navigation platform further causes at least in part a recommendation of one or more new segments one or more new modes of transport or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more search results.

In step the navigation platform receives an input for specifying at least one target proximity at least one target type at least one target rating at least one target user history or a combination thereof. For example a user may specify the target proximity as less than 1.5 Kilometers from a current location and the target rating as highest for a diner i.e. a point of interest on the multi modal route.

In step the navigation platform causes at least in part a calculation of the at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints to select the one or more search results that meet the at least one target proximity the at least one target type the at least one target rating the at least one target user history or a combination thereof based at least in part on the proximity information the type information the ratings information the user history information or a combination thereof. In one example embodiment the navigation platform via sensors determines that a user is between waypoints in a pedestrian mode. The navigation platform may process content information for the user to determine user preferences for example the user prefers Chinese food and only eats at classy restaurants. Then the navigation platform may select highly rated Chinese restaurants that are within the distance of 1 Kilometer from the waypoints.

In step the navigation platform receives an input for specifying a selection of the one or more search results. For example the user may select one or more search results i.e. POIs for the route. In one embodiment the user may select the search results from a user interface of the UE . In another embodiment the one or more search results may be selected by the navigation platform based on a target proximity a target type a target rating a target user history or a combination thereof.

In step the navigation platform causes at least in part an incorporation of the selected search results into the at least one multi modal route by incorporating the at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints. In one example embodiment the navigation platform may cause a presentation of a route on the UE which includes the selected search results and corresponding transition waypoints segments and modes of transport. Then the user may select one or more POIs from the search result. Subsequently the navigation platform incorporates the user selection into the multi modal route to create a route that is convenient for the user.

In step the navigation platform causes at least in part a recommendation of one or more new segments one or more new modes of transport or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more search results.

In step the navigation platform causes at least in part a designation of a maximum range for at least one change in the one or more locations of the plurality of transition waypoints. In one scenario the navigation platform may designate the maximum range of 1 kilometer change in the location of a transition waypoint. In one example embodiment the navigation platform may search for restaurants within the range of 1 kilometer from the at least one waypoint.

As shown in one or more search results e.g. restaurants are presented on the user interface based at least in part on the distance the ratings accessibility via certain modes of transport or a combination thereof for the segment A to 1 of a multi modal route. For example search for results between A and 1 is limited to 1 kilometer from the route but also a highly rated restaurant as far as 2 kilometers away may be included in the search results as a public transport route is found from the user s location A to the waypoint . In one scenario the restaurant which is further away has a higher rating than any of the restaurants within the 1 kilometer distance of the A to 1 route.

As shown in one or more search results are presented on the user interface based at least in part on the distance the ratings accessibility via certain modes of transport or a combination thereof for segment to of a multi modal route. For example search results between the waypoints and which are within 1 km routing distance from the route A to C are presented. Further search results that are further away from the route A to C but with high ratings are considered when they are reachable by car within a certain time threshold e.g. 5 minutes and the user can return to route A to C within the time threshold.

As depicted in one or more search results are presented on the user interface based at least in part on the distance the ratings accessibility via certain modes of transport or a combination thereof for the segments to B to of a multi modal route. As displayed the mode of transport for this segment is a pedestrian mode so the user can walk from the point to . In this exemplary scenario search results e.g. restaurants with high ratings near and B are prioritized together with the search results near the route A to C. Further since the segment to was a drive segment the search is extended to potential locations that are reachable by the same car when the restaurants further away have higher ratings than the ones close to the route. In addition the search result is extended to the segment B to . By way of example since user is less likely to use car after B and the segment to is a public transit segment more priority may be set on the search results nearby the waypoint and the search results that are reachable by public transit.

As shown in one or more search results are presented on the user interface based at least in part on the distance the ratings accessibility via certain modes of transport or a combination thereof for the segment to of a multi modal route. As noted previously the segment to includes a public transit mode. Consequently search results nearby the waypoint and the waypoint are prioritized. For example the waypoints and may be public bus stops. Since the user is less likely to use the car after waypoint B more priority may be set on the restaurants close to waypoint and restaurants reachable by public transit. Therefore highly rated search results e.g. restaurants along the segment to are considered as the user can exit the public transit to access the restaurant and come back once done. Further crossing public transit may be considered to prioritize the search results.

As depicted in one or more search results are presented on the user interface based on the pedestrian mode of transport for the segment to C. In this scenario highly rated search results e.g. restaurants along the route A to C that are near waypoint and the destination C are prioritized. For instance since C is the destination the search is not extended beyond C more than a certain distance threshold e.g. 300 meters . By way of example the user is unlikely to travel further away for a restaurant than what is the current and or remaining distance to the destination. Therefore if waypoint is 1000 meters from the destination C the search along the segment to C is limited to 350 meters i.e. almost half the distance between and C .

As shown in the route A to C is considered as a whole to search and present the POIs on the UE . In one embodiment the navigation platform considers the route as a whole when a user exits the route to visit a restaurant. The location of the restaurant the user is visiting is added to the route as a waypoint. In such manner the navigation platform provides the user with best available route to the restaurant and from the restaurant towards the next waypoint or the destination. As depicted if the user selects search results then the locations of the search results are incorporated as waypoints in the route A to C. In one embodiment the search result is incorporated in the route A to C when the user exits the waypoint . In another embodiment the search results is prioritized based on the change in the location of the waypoints from the route A to C that would result if the one or more search results were to be incorporated into the at least one route A to C. For example the change in location of waypoints resulting from selection of the search results and may be calculated to prioritize the search result

The processes described herein for determining relevant point of interest for a user on a multi modal route may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to determining relevant point of interest for a user on a multi modal route. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for determining relevant point of interest for a user on a multi modal route. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for determining relevant point of interest for a user on a multi modal route is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display and one or more camera sensors for capturing recording and causing to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings. In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device may be omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for determining relevant point of interest for a user on a multi modal route to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to determine relevant point of interest for a user on a multi modal route. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of determining relevant point of interest for a user on a multi modal route. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to determine relevant point of interest for a user on a multi modal route. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Further one or more camera sensors may be incorporated onto the mobile station wherein the one or more camera sensors may be placed at one or more locations on the mobile station. Generally the camera sensors may be utilized to capture record and cause to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.
