---

title: Adaptive device transmission power for interference reduction
abstract: This disclosure describes systems, methods, and computer-readable media related to adaptive device transmission power to reduce interference. In some embodiments, a device may establish a peer-to-peer connection with a second user device. The device may receive information from an access point and may generate or determine additional information. Using the received, generated, and/or determined information, the device may determine to reduce its transmission power and may facilitate the reduction of transmission power for associated devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09480025&OS=09480025&RS=09480025
owner: Intel IP Corporation
number: 09480025
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150327
---
This disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for adaptive device transmission power for interference reduction.

User devices such as smartphones tablets and wearable technology have become more powerful and mobile. User devices may establish connections with other devices without requiring a wireless access point. Such connections may be used for browsing the Internet transferring data and communicating with other devices. However as there are an increasing number of users networks may become crowded and slow. Typically wireless networking may occur in the 2.4 GHz frequency band. However some devices may opt to utilize channels in the 5 GHz band due to its relative lack of traffic. Unfortunately the 5 GHz bands may be regulated by government regulations such as for air traffic control and weather radars.

To make the 5 GHz band available for wireless networking in a safe manner various agencies have laid out specifications for how a wireless device selects an operating channel. This scheme called dynamic frequency selection DFS requires that a master station listen to a channel for a minimum period of time to ensure that no radars are operating there before transmitting. Thereafter the station must continue to listen for radars should one happen to move into the neighborhood the station must shut down all communications and move to a different channel. In essence wireless devices operating in the 5 GHz band must actively avoid transmitting on channels where radars are operating.

Unfortunately many devices have limited power capabilities and may not be equipped to detect radar operators thus limiting their ability to utilize the 5 GHz band.

A feature of user devices may be the ability to establish wireless personal area networks PAN which allow user devices to communicate wirelessly with other devices. However certain frequency bands used for wireless communication may be regulated and thus are not readily available for utilization by user devices. For example many wireless networks operate within a 2.4 GHz frequency band which with the increase of users may bet crowded and noisy. Thus some user devices may be capable of operating on a different frequency band such as 5 GHz. However such frequency bands may be used for regulated operations such as radar for aviation radars or weather radars. To avoid such collisions dynamic frequency selection DFS may be utilized to select channels within the frequency band that are not actively being used for regulated activities. DFS may require that a master station monitor a channel for a minimum period of time to ensure that no regulated activity e.g. radars are operating prior to transmitting data. The station must continuously monitor for the regulated activity and if any regulated activity is detected the switch to a different channel to avoid transmitting on the same channels as the regulated activity. However user devices may not have the capability to monitor for regulated activity which limits their ability to utilize the less crowded channels on the frequency band.

This disclosure relates to among other things systems methods computer readable media techniques and methodology for adaptive device transmission power for interference reduction. The user devices may rely on the detection capabilities of the master stations e.g. access points for detection of regulated activities. User devices and client devices associated with the user devices via peer to peer connections thus adaptively adjust their transmission power to adjust the circle of coverage generated by the user device to be within a circle of coverage generated by the access point. Thus if there is activity occurring in the circle of coverage of the access point the user device may receive an indication that there is regulated activity and can change to a different channel within the frequency band along with the access point to avoid the regulated activity. Accordingly the user device would have the benefit of utilizing the frequency band even without the capability of detecting the regulated activity since it is relying on the capabilities of the access point.

Various illustrative embodiments have been discussed above. These and other example embodiments of the disclosure will be described in more detail hereinafter through reference to the accompanying drawings. The drawings and the corresponding description are provided merely for illustration and are not intended to limit the disclosure in any way. It should be appreciated that numerous other embodiments variations and so forth are within the scope of this disclosure.

In some embodiments a user device may establish a peer to peer connection with a client device such as through WiFi direct. The user device may generate a circle of coverage and the client device may generate a circle over coverage . In some embodiments the user device and client device are battery operated devices that may not have radar detection capabilities but may wish to utilize a channel where radars may operate. In some embodiments the user device could be within the circle of coverage of the access point while the client device could reside outside of the circle of coverage of the access point. If the user device and client device are positioned such that the client device is outside the circle of coverage of the access point the peer to peer connection between the user device and the client device may cause unlawful interference of radar operations within the channel. However if the user device is able to determine circle of coverage of the access point and adaptively adjust the transmission power of the user device and the client device to ensure both devices are within the circle of coverage the user device may rely on the radar detection of the access point to determine if there is a need to stop communications and either switch to another channel on the frequency band or terminate all communications with the client device thus reducing interference of radar activities within the channel of the frequency band.

The radius of interference RoI of the user device may be calculated by the user device using the current transmission power of the user device . RoI of the user device may be indicative of the distance between the user device and the edge or outer limit of the circle of coverage of the user device . Similarly the radius of interference RoI of the client device may be indicative of the distance between the client device and the edge or outer limit of the circle of coverage of the client device .

The antenna may include any suitable type of antenna depending for example on the communications protocols used to transmit or receive signals via the antennas . Non limiting examples of suitable antennas may include directional antennas non directional antennas dipole antennas folded dipole antennas patch antennas multiple input multiple output MIMO antennas or the like. The antenna may be communicatively coupled to one or more transceivers or radio components to which or from which signals may be transmitted or received.

In some embodiments the antenna may be a cellular antenna which may be configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as GSM 3G standards e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA CDMA2000 etc. 4G standards e.g. LTE WiMax etc. direct satellite communications or the like.

In some embodiments the antenna may be a Wi Fi antenna which may be configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as IEEE 802.11 family of standards including via 2.4 GHz channels e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 5 GHz channels e.g. 802.11n 802.11ac or 60 GHZ channels e.g. 802.11ad . In alternative example embodiments the antenna may be configured to transmit or receive radio frequency signals within the unlicensed portion of the radio spectrum.

In some embodiments the antenna may be a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS antenna which may be configured to receive GNSS signals from three or more GNSS satellites carrying time position information to triangulate a position therefrom. The GNSS antenna may be configured to receive GNSS signals from any current or planned GNSS such as for example the Global Positioning System GPS the GLONASS System the Compass Navigation System the Galileo System or the Indian Regional Navigational System.

The transceiver may include any suitable radio component s for in cooperation with the antenna transmitting or receiving radio frequency RF signals in the bandwidth and or channels corresponding to the communications protocols utilized by the user device to communicate with other devices. The transceiver may include hardware software and or firmware for modulating transmitting or receiving potentially in cooperation with any of antenna communications signals according to any of the communications protocols discussed above including but not limited to one or more Wi Fi and or Wi Fi direct protocols as standardized by the IEEE 802.11 standards one or more non Wi Fi protocols or one or more cellular communications protocols or standards. The transceiver may further include hardware firmware or software for receiving GNSS signals via for example the antenna . The transceiver may include any known receiver and baseband suitable for communicating via the communications protocols utilized by the user device . The transceiver may further include a low noise amplifier LNA additional signal amplifiers an analog to digital A D converter one or more buffers digital baseband or the like.

The bus es may include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and may permit exchange of information e.g. data including computer executable code signaling etc. between various components of the user device . The bus es may include without limitation a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and so forth. The bus es may be associated with any suitable bus architecture including without limitation an Industry Standard Architecture ISA a Micro Channel Architecture MCA an Enhanced ISA EISA a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA architecture an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP architecture a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI architecture a PCI Express architecture a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA architecture a Universal Serial Bus USB architecture and so forth.

The memory of the user device may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as various types of static random access memory SRAM various types of dynamic random access memory DRAM various types of unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth. The memory may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L1 L2 etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage solid state storage and or tape storage. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the processor s to cause the processor s to perform or initiate various operations. The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the processor s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non volatile storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more operating systems O S one or more database management systems DBMS and one or more program modules applications or the like such as for example one or more application s and or one or more interference engine s . The data storage may further store any of variety of other types of modules. Further any program modules stored in the data storage may include one or more sub modules. Further any data stored in the data storage may be loaded into the memory for use by the processor s in executing computer executable code. In addition any data potentially stored in one or more datastores e.g. data may be accessed via the DBMS and loaded in the memory for use by the processor s in executing computer executable code.

The processor s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. For example the processor s may be configured to execute computer executable instructions of the various program modules of the user device to cause or facilitate various operations to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the processor s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the processor s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction sets.

Referring now to functionality supported by the various program modules depicted in the application s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may obtain data process and or generate data and present data to a user of the user device . In some embodiments the application s may obtain and or receive data from a datastore remote server or other user device .

The interference engine s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may communicate with an access point and one or more user devices . The interference engine may receive information from an access point and or the other user devices . The interference engine may use the received information to calculate additional information. The interference engine may use the received and or calculated information to determine whether to adjust the transmission power of the user device or that of other user devices which is discussed in further detail in association with below.

Referring now to other illustrative components depicted as being stored in the data storage the O S may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and may provide an interface between other application software executing on the device and hardware resources of the device . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the device and for providing common services to other application programs e.g. managing memory allocation among various application programs . The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any server operating system any mainframe operating system or any other proprietary or non proprietary operating system.

The DBMS may be loaded into the memory and may support functionality for accessing retrieving storing and or manipulating data stored in the memory data stored in the data storage and or data stored in the one or more datastores . The DBMS may use any of a variety of database models e.g. relational model object model etc. and may support any of a variety of query languages. The DBMS may access data represented in one or more data schemas and stored in any suitable data repository including but not limited to databases e.g. relational object oriented etc. file systems flat files distributed datastores in which data is stored on more than one node of a computer network peer to peer network datastores or the like. In those example embodiments in which the user device is a mobile device the DBMS may be any suitable light weight DBMS optimized for performance on a mobile device. Referring to the example types of data depicted as being stored in the datastore s the data may include kind of data that may be accessed by a user device such as movies music application data generated by one or more application s and associated with a user of the user device etc. It should be appreciated that data as that term is used herein includes computer executable instructions code or the like.

Referring now to other illustrative components of the device the one or more input output I O interfaces may facilitate the receipt of input information by the device from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from the device to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include any of a variety of components such as a display or display screen having a touch surface or touchscreen an audio output device for producing sound such as a speaker an audio capture device such as a microphone an image and or video capture device such as a camera a haptic unit and so forth. Any of these components may be integrated into the device or may be separate. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth.

The I O interface s may also include an interface for an external peripheral device connection such as universal serial bus USB FireWire Thunderbolt Ethernet port or other connection protocol that may connect to one or more networks. The I O interface s may also include a connection to one or more antennas to connect to one or more networks via a wireless local area network WLAN such as Wi Fi radio Bluetooth and or a wireless network radio such as a radio capable of communication with a wireless communication network such as a Long Term Evolution LTE network WiMAX network 3G network etc.

The user device may further include one or more network interfaces via which the user device may communicate with any of a variety of other systems platforms networks devices and so forth. Such communication may occur via one or more networks including but are not limited to any one or more different types of communications networks such as for example cable networks public networks e.g. the Internet private networks e.g. frame relay networks wireless networks cellular networks telephone networks e.g. a public switched telephone network or any other suitable private or public packet switched or circuit switched networks. Further such network s may have any suitable communication range associated therewith and may include for example global networks e.g. the Internet metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or personal area networks PANs . In addition such network s may include communication links and associated networking devices e.g. link layer switches routers etc. for transmitting network traffic over any suitable type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted pair wire e.g. twisted pair copper wire optical fiber a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC medium a microwave medium a radio frequency communication medium a satellite communication medium or any combination thereof.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any of the components of the architecture may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted or described as forming part of any of the illustrative components of the architecture and the associated functionality that such components support are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. While various program modules have been depicted and described with respect to various illustrative components of the architecture it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software firmware and or hardware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Further while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the illustrative networked architecture is provided by way of example only. Numerous other operating environments system architectures and device configurations are within the scope of this disclosure. Other embodiments of the disclosure may include fewer or greater numbers of components and or devices and may incorporate some or all of the functionality described with respect to the illustrative architecture or additional functionality.

At block the interference engine may determine the distance between the access point and the user device . In some embodiments the interference engine may calculate the distance between the access point and the user device using RSSI of frames sent by the access point and received by the user device . In some embodiments the interference engine may use time of flight calculations e.g. transmitting frames or other data from the user device to the access point and measuring the time it takes to receive a response from the access point 

At block the interference engine may determine the radius of interference of the user device . In some embodiments the RoI of the user device may be calculated using the transmission power of the user device . In some embodiments the RoI of the user device may be calculated using other information associated with the user device .

At block the interference engine may determine the RoI of the client device . In some embodiments the RoI of the client device may be set by the interference engine to be equal to the RoI of the user device . In some embodiments the client device may calculate its own RoI and may transmit the RoI to the interference engine of the user device using one or more frames or messages.

At block the interference engine may calculate a value using the received and determined information. In some embodiments the interference engine may add the values e.g. distance between the client device and the user device RoI of the user device and RoI of the client device to calculate the value. In some embodiments the interference engine may calculate the value using a formula such as multiplying the RoI of the user device by or using the diameter of the circle of coverage generated by the user device and adding the doubled RoI value with the distance between the client device and the user device . Other formulas may be used to capture having both the circle of coverage generated by the user device and the circle of coverage generated by the client device within the circle of coverage of the access point such as depicted in .

At block the interference engine may determine whether the calculated value from block is greater than the RoRDA value . If the interference engine determines that the calculated value is less than the RoRDA value then the method may terminate. If the interference engine determines that the calculated value is greater than the RoRDA value then the method may proceed along the YES branch to block where the interference engine may adjust the transmission power of the user device and or client device further discussed in .

At block the interference engine may determine whether the transmission power of the user device can be reduced. In some embodiments the interference engine may determine whether the transmission power can be reduced by retrieving a minimum voltage threshold indicative of the minimum voltage necessary for the user device to function. If the interference engine determines that reducing the transmission power is possible then the method may proceed to block where the transmission power of the user device may be reduced. Additionally the interference engine may reduce or facilitate reduction of the transmission power of the client device . In some embodiments the transmission power e.g. user device client device may be reduced by a predetermined value. In some embodiments the interference engine may calculate a value that would decrease the calculated value in block to be lower or less than the RoRDA value . Upon reduction of the transmission power the method may terminate.

If at block the interference engine determined that the transmission power of the user device could not be reduced then at block the interference engine may terminate or facilitate termination of the peer to peer connection of the user device to the client device .

In some embodiments the user device may verify the compatibility of the various measurements e.g. RoRDA value RoI RoI periodically to ensure all measurements are accurate and to prevent any regulatory violations as a result of changed conditions. Additionally in some embodiments security may be enhanced by requiring an active WiFi connection between the access point and the user device to ensure all data exchange between the devices can be protected through protocol security measures e.g. 802.11 security mechanisms .

In some embodiments client devices may be prevented from generating their own circle of coverage or establishing peer to peer connections to other client devices. For example the RoRDA of the user device which would be acting as an access point to the client device may be set to zero. However if the client device is permitted to establish its own circle of coverage and acquire its own client devices the RoRDA value of the user device may be calculated as the RoRDA value of the access point minus the distance between the access point and the user device . The RoRDA value of the user device may be calculated by the interference engine and transmitted to the client device .

In one embodiment a computer readable medium may store computer executable instructions which when executed by a processor may cause the processor to perform operations including establishing a peer to peer connection with a second user device receiving from an access point a frame comprising a radius of radar detection area RoRDA value associated with the access point determining a distance between the first user device and the access point determining a first radius of interference area RoI of the first user device determining a second RoI of the second user device determining a first value using the distance between the first user device and the access point the first RoI and the second RoI determining the first value is greater than the RoRDA value reducing a first transmission power of the first user device and facilitating a reduction of a second transmission power of the second user device.

In one aspect of an embodiment determining the distance between the first user device and the access point may further comprises determining the distance between the first user device and the access point using a time of flight calculation. In one aspect of an embodiment determining the distance between the first user device and the access point may further comprise determining the distance between the first user device and the access point using an RSSI value associated with the access point. In one aspect of an embodiment the operations may further comprise determining the first transmission power or the second transmission power cannot be reduced and terminating the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the operations may further comprise determining the peer to peer connection with the second user device is not active and terminating the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the RoRDA value may be a first RoRDA value and wherein the operations may further comprise determining a second RoRDA value wherein the second RoRDA value is the first RoRDA value minus the distance between the first user device and the access point and transmitting the second RoRDA value to the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment determining the second RoI may further comprise setting the second RoI to be equal to the first RoI.

In one embodiment a system may comprise at least one antenna at least one transceiver at least one memory storing computer executable instructions and at least one processor wherein the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to execute the computer executable instructions to establish a peer to peer connection with a second user device receive from an access point a frame comprising a radius of radar detection area RoRDA value associated with the access point determine a distance between the first user device and the access point determine a first radius of interference area RoI of the first user device determine a second RoI of the second user device determine a first value using the distance between the first user device and the access point the first RoI and the second RoI determine the first value is greater than the RoRDA value reduce a first transmission power of the first user device and facilitate a reduction of a second transmission power of the second user device.

In one aspect of an embodiment to determine the distance between the first user device and the access point the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine the distance between the first user device and the access point using a time of flight calculation. In one aspect of an embodiment to determine the distance between the first user device and the access point the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine the distance between the first user device and the access point using an RSSI value associated with the access point. In one aspect of an embodiment the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine the first transmission power or the second transmission power cannot be reduced and terminate the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine the peer to peer connection with the second user device is not active and terminate the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the RoRDA value may be a first RoRDA value and wherein the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine a second RoRDA value wherein the second RoRDA value is the first RoRDA value minus the distance between the first user device and the access point and transmit the second RoRDA value to the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment to determine the second RoI the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to set the second RoI to be equal to the first RoI.

In one embodiment a method may include establishing by a first user device comprising one or more processors a peer to peer connection with a second user device receiving by the first user device from an access point a frame comprising a radius of radar detection area RoRDA value associated with the access point determining by the first user device a distance between the first user device and the access point determining by the first user device a first radius of interference area RoI of the first user device determining by the first user device a second RoI of the second user device determining by the first user device a first value using the distance between the first user device and the access point the first RoI and the second RoI determining by the first user device the first value is greater than the RoRDA value reducing by the first user device a first transmission power of the first user device and facilitating by the first user device a reduction of a second transmission power of the second user device.

In one aspect of an embodiment determining the distance between the first user device and the access point may further comprise determining by the first user device the distance between the first user device and the access point using a time of flight calculation. In one aspect of an embodiment determining the distance between the first user device and the access point may further comprises determining by the first user device the distance between the first user device and the access point using an RSSI value associated with the access point. In one aspect of an embodiment the method may further comprise determining by the first user device the first transmission power or the second transmission power cannot be reduced and terminating by the first user device the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the method may further comprise determining by the first user device the peer to peer connection with the second user device is not active and terminating by the first user device the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the RoRDA value may be a first RoRDA value and wherein the method may further comprise determining by the first user device a second RoRDA value wherein the second RoRDA value is the first RoRDA value minus the distance between the first user device and the access point and transmitting by the first user device the second RoRDA value to the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment determining the second RoI may further comprise setting by the first user device the second RoI to be equal to the first RoI.

In one embodiment a system may comprise a means for establishing a peer to peer connection with a second user device a means for receiving from an access point a frame comprising a radius of radar detection area RoRDA value associated with the access point a means for determining a distance between the first user device and the access point a means for determining a first radius of interference area RoI of the first user device a means for determining a second RoI of the second user device a means for determining a first value using the distance between the first user device and the access point the first RoI and the second RoI a means for determining the first value is greater than the RoRDA value a means for reducing a first transmission power of the first user device and a means for facilitating a reduction of a second transmission power of the second user device.

In one aspect of an embodiment the means for determining the distance between the first user device and the access point may further comprises a means for determining the distance between the first user device and the access point using a time of flight calculation. In one aspect of an embodiment the means for determining the distance between the first user device and the access point may further comprise a means for determining the distance between the first user device and the access point using an RSSI value associated with the access point. In one aspect of an embodiment the system may further comprise a means for determining the first transmission power or the second transmission power cannot be reduced and a means for terminating the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the system may further comprise a means for determining the peer to peer connection with the second user device is not active and a means for terminating the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the RoRDA value may be a first RoRDA value and wherein the system may further comprise a means for determining a second RoRDA value wherein the second RoRDA value is the first RoRDA value minus the distance between the first user device and the access point and a means for transmitting the second RoRDA value to the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the means for determining the second RoI may further comprise a means for setting the second RoI to be equal to the first RoI.

In one embodiment an apparatus may comprise at least one antenna at least one transceiver at least one memory storing computer executable instructions and at least one processor wherein the at least one processor is configured to access the at least one memory and to execute the computer executable instructions to establish a peer to peer connection with a second user device receive from an access point a frame comprising a radius of radar detection area RoRDA value associated with the access point determine a distance between the first user device and the access point determine a first radius of interference area RoI of the first user device determine a second RoI of the second user device determine a first value using the distance between the first user device and the access point the first RoI and the second RoI determine the first value is greater than the RoRDA value reduce a first transmission power of the first user device and facilitate a reduction of a second transmission power of the second user device.

In one aspect of an embodiment to determine the distance between the first user device and the access point the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine the distance between the first user device and the access point using a time of flight calculation. In one aspect of an embodiment to determine the distance between the first user device and the access point the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine the distance between the first user device and the access point using an RSSI value associated with the access point. In one aspect of an embodiment the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine the first transmission power or the second transmission power cannot be reduced and terminate the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine the peer to peer connection with the second user device is not active and terminate the peer to peer connection with the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment the RoRDA value may be a first RoRDA value and wherein the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to determine a second RoRDA value wherein the second RoRDA value is the first RoRDA value minus the distance between the first user device and the access point and transmit the second RoRDA value to the second user device. In one aspect of an embodiment to determine the second RoI the at least one processor may be configured to access the at least one memory and to further execute the computer executable instructions to set the second RoI to be equal to the first RoI.

It should be appreciated that the program modules applications computer executable instructions code or the like depicted in this disclosure as being stored in data storage are merely illustrative and not exhaustive and that processing described as being supported by any particular module may alternatively be distributed across multiple modules or performed by a different module. In addition various program module s script s plug in s Application Programming Interface s API s or any other suitable computer executable code hosted locally on a device e.g. user device and or hosted on other computing device s accessible via one or more networks may be provided to support functionality provided by the program modules applications or computer executable code depicted herein and or additional or alternate functionality. Further functionality may be modularized differently such that processing described as being supported collectively by the collection of program modules described herein may be performed by a fewer or greater number of modules or functionality described as being supported by any particular module may be supported at least in part by another module. In addition program modules that support the functionality described herein may form part of one or more applications executable across any number of systems or devices in accordance with any suitable computing model such as for example a client server model a peer to peer model and so forth. In addition any of the functionality described as being supported by any of the program modules described herein may be implemented at least partially in hardware and or firmware across any number of devices.

It should further be appreciated that a device e.g. user device may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of the device e.g. user device are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. While various illustrative program modules have been depicted and described as software modules stored in data storage it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software hardware and or firmware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules or as sub modules of other modules.

One or more operations of the methods may have been described above as being performed by one or more components of a device or more specifically by one or more one or more program modules executing on such a device. It should be appreciated however that any of the operations of methods may be performed at least in part in a distributed manner by one or more other devices or systems or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on such devices. In addition it should be appreciated that processing performed in response to execution of computer executable instructions provided as part of an application program module or the like may be interchangeably described herein as being performed by the application or the program module itself or by a device on which the application program module or the like is executing. While the operations of any of the method may be described in the context of the illustrative user device it should be appreciated that such operations may be implemented in connection with numerous other system configurations.

The operations described and depicted in the illustrative methods of may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various example embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain example embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain example embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in may be performed.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further while various illustrative implementations and architectures have been described in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other modifications to the illustrative implementations and architectures described herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively may be implemented by execution of computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments. Further additional components and or operations beyond those depicted in blocks of the block and or flow diagrams may be present in certain embodiments.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Program modules applications or the like disclosed herein may include one or more software components including for example software objects methods data structures or the like. Each such software component may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution cause at least a portion of the functionality described herein e.g. one or more operations of the illustrative methods described herein to be performed.

A software component may be coded in any of a variety of programming languages. An illustrative programming language may be a lower level programming language such as an assembly language associated with a particular hardware architecture and or operating system platform. A software component comprising assembly language instructions may require conversion into executable machine code by an assembler prior to execution by the hardware architecture and or platform.

Another example programming language may be a higher level programming language that may be portable across multiple architectures. A software component comprising higher level programming language instructions may require conversion to an intermediate representation by an interpreter or a compiler prior to execution.

Other examples of programming languages include but are not limited to a macro language a shell or command language a job control language a script language a database query or search language or a report writing language. In one or more example embodiments a software component comprising instructions in one of the foregoing examples of programming languages may be executed directly by an operating system or other software component without having to be first transformed into another form.

A software component may be stored as a file or other data storage construct. Software components of a similar type or functionally related may be stored together such as for example in a particular directory folder or library. Software components may be static e.g. pre established or fixed or dynamic e.g. created or modified at the time of execution .

Software components may invoke or be invoked by other software components through any of a wide variety of mechanisms. Invoked or invoking software components may comprise other custom developed application software operating system functionality e.g. device drivers data storage e.g. file management routines other common routines and services etc. or third party software components e.g. middleware encryption or other security software database management software file transfer or other network communication software mathematical or statistical software image processing software and format translation software .

Software components associated with a particular solution or system may reside and be executed on a single platform or may be distributed across multiple platforms. The multiple platforms may be associated with more than one hardware vendor underlying chip technology or operating system. Furthermore software components associated with a particular solution or system may be initially written in one or more programming languages but may invoke software components written in another programming language.

Computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that execution of the instructions on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus causes one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams to be performed. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium CRSM that upon execution may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in any of the devices described herein may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the information and which can be accessed. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM. Alternatively computer readable communication media CRCM may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include CRCM.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

